ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e80	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party and Center Party 10 minutes and Left and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e91	It has been an interesting and exciting challenge to be case spokespersons for the new work environment law. I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation, where the deadlines have been limited and there has been both intense and hectic meetings in the final phase. This is a case that brings out clear political differences between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. I'll come back to that. We face many major challenges in our society. The unemployment rate, according to Norwegian conditions, has been stable for a longer period. In addition, more and more people are being evicted by the labour market because of major changes and changes. This has resulted in several people being disabled, and when it concerns the number of people within the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, the arrow only points up. A number of Stortinget’s policies are leading to a tougher and more brutal working life. In addition, workers' rights are weakened. This cannot continue. That is why the Labour Party announces a rematch in several areas of law. The intentional agreement for a more inclusive working life was launched in the autumn of 2001. The aim is to reduce sick leave, recruit more disabled people and increase the real retirement age. Now we see a happy development in the disease fromreturn statistics, but there has been less focus on all those who are now being noised out of the world of work. My claim is that the changes in the overtime rules in 2003, adopted by the Government with the support of the Progress Party, lead to increased pressure on individual employees. The government does not seem to recognise this, since they are now proposing only minor and insignificant changes to the overtime rules. The Labour Party will have a working life where everyone can participate and no one will be destitute. If one is to succeed in such a goal, it will require more cooperation at the workplace and greater involvement of those added and their organisations – not less, as the majority today advocates. Being able to go to a job that gives a meaningful life is a fundamental human right. As responsible legislators, we must then make it possible for everyone to have a share in this quality. At that time, the Work Environment Act will have to reconstruct the objectives of a working life with room for all and a more inclusive working life. An active policy must exist in a wide range of ways. Work environment law is an important instrument for reducing sick leave and reducing disability and improving the use of the resources and labour of older workers. The Labour Party believes that the government and the majority in its proposal have taken too little account of this. Our claim is that this can quickly result in a harder working life where more people add to it will have a more loose form of association with the world of work than today. In the next round, this will lead to an increase in the number of people with disabilities. Today, we see a working life that has changed dramatically over the last decade. Companies are bought and sold, split or merged and new forms of ownership are established. This results in responsibilities powdering and ambiguity about who is actually an employer. This complicates the relationship between employees and employers. Against this background, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will propose that employers' responsibility should also be allocated to enterprises which can exercise a decisive influence over the enterprise to which they are added under the contract of employment. I'm surprised that the plural does not stifle us in this. Today's work environment law dates from 1977, and a lot has happened in almost 30 years. We see a change in industrial structure, greater participation in work — especially among women — and a number of adjustments have been made to the work environment law. This was the background for the government to set down a wide range of laws in 2001 to propose a complete revision of the laws. After the Labour Law Committee gave its opinion, there was a great debate on whether there was a need for a labour law or whether it would still be a pure protection law. I am pleased that the Government and the Council of State High Council specified that there should still be a protection law. The challenge here is, however, that the Bondevik government in the course of the selection process will change the mandate to give greater attention to the needs of the enterprises and society. This is also the government proposed in the purpose section and has been joined by a majority in this room. What does this mean then? Well, this will, in our opinion, radically change the promise, by the fact that a hereafter will also take account of economic fluctuations in society, and that we will no longer be given a purely worker protection law, but a labour law, which many people have warned against. This is a wrong signal to give in to a situation in which workers are constantly experiencing new demands for change in their working life. Such a change may result in the addition of and their organisations being forced to accept poorer protection as an alternative to redundancy and redundancy. The rules of protection must never be made a financial question. That is why we are opposed to this change in the purpose paragraph. The proposal for a new work environment law is, in our opinion, a matter of urgent work. It might be an exaggeration to call the bill a sweat cheese, but there were undoubtedly more holes in this product. The Ministry's letter of 27 April this year also bears witness to this. However, I must commend the Council of State for presenting a better product than a majority in the Labour Law Committee. There's also some good in the government's proposal. I am not thinking at least of the proposal for protection against the repudiation of warnings of critical circumstances and the right to the extension of the position to part-time workers. But what is not good is all the proposals that change the balance of working life relationships, not least changes that go on more individualisation by shifting the level of agreement from the organisations down to the individual employees. I will further mention some important points in the law in my article. The first one is related to working hours. Work hours must not be set up in such a way as to cause workers unnecessary health problems and to be subject to social taxes. The Government Party and the Progress Party will today open up contracts for 13 hours of work and 60 hours of work week – without overpayment! This is in our opinion not in line with the goal of a more inclusive working life. That is why we are opposed to this and will continue today's rules on average working time. The same right-hand party is also involved in the continuation of the liberal overtime rules adopted in 2003. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre will go back to the overtime rules applicable before the amendment in 2003, and I refer to our proposal in the vote and in addition to proposal No. 34, which is distributed in the hall. Furthermore, I would like to clarify – and this is important – that this proposal is not intended to change current practice in up to 60 hours of work week. Arguments for and against increasing the use of temporary addition are well known. I agree very much with Professor Steinar Holden, who claims in a chronicle that there is no basis for saying that a weaker job protection will lead to higher employment and lower unemployment. Nor is there any reason to believe that enterprises will invest in using resources to maintain the same skills as temporary workers. It's more like the other way around. Then I take up suggestion No. 12 in the vote and proposal No. 34, which is now distributed, and then I get to go on with my point-wise arguments in later three-minute posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e133	Employers throughout Norway face a situation of strong international competition and depend on regulations that do not prevent rapid change, in order to save and secure jobs. At the same time, it is important to ensure the rights of workers and the need for protection. That is the central message of the draft law under consideration in Odelstinget today. A working life with room for all must be an appropriate and very good description of what we are trying to achieve with this bill. A new work environment law has a significant international dimension. Globalisation and development in international trade and production have put increasing pressure on Norwegian businesses. The competitive situation is not limited to national industries, but is increasingly dependent on the ability to generate value on an international scale. It is therefore important that the new Labour Environment Act be assessed in relation to regulations in other countries. If labour regulations in Norway are significantly different from countries that are naturally comparable, this may help to make total costs difficult to compete. At the same time, good labour regulations can help strengthen competitiveness by increasing the opportunities for a good learning and development environment in Norwegian enterprises. On the right, there is no conflict between the objective of a good and well-regulated working environment on the one hand and the demand for profitable jobs and a dynamic labour market on the other. A good working environment is one of several important prerequisites for a healthy and long-term value creation. At the same time, it has been an objective to design individual points in the law so that they do not impose unnecessary burdens on businesses. We will promote the good working environment, not weaken the foundations of the workplace. A sound working environment does not just mean avoiding anything negative. It's at least as much about contributing to something positive. Fresh and satisfied employees provide more and better. Therefore, a sound working environment is also profitable, not only for society and individuals, but also for individual activities. Flexible working hours can improve balance. Work can in itself be health-promoting. But too much work over a long period of time can damage your health. Most of us need a balance between work and rest. Everyone should have the right to have a family life or a social life outside of work. In view of this, the Government has not proposed to increase access to more voluntary overtime, as the Employment Act Committee intervened. The period during which it is possible to work consecutive long weeks of work is somewhat limited. Another important consideration is to strengthen flexibility in the Work Environment Act. Among other things, it should be much easier for employers and employees to enter into working-time contracts that are suitable for both parties. It also increases the possibility of maintaining and making good use of working capacity in a long professional life. It is proposed to legislate on the right to flexible working time contracts when there is no significant disadvantage to the company. For example, it must be easy to make an agreement that allows children to be picked up earlier in the kindergarten and rather work more at other times, or at home. This is in the interests of both the employee and the employer. In my opinion, temporary employment creates a lower threshold within the workplace. Permanent employment shall remain the general rule. At the same time, there is a desire to stimulate increased employment and new initiatives, so that more people get work. Therefore, the Government has chosen to open carefully for more use of temporary employment. I'm very pleased that there seems to be a majority for this during the Odelstinget treatment here today. I believe that this can help create new jobs, by reducing the economic risk to businesses in the start-up phase. It will also reduce the use of resources in the legal interpretation of today’s unclear law in favour of more useful work. In addition, the burden on those who already work a lot will be reduced. For most, a temporary job will be far preferable to unemployment. We know, among other things: many young people, immigrants and disabled people face additional challenges in finding their first job because some employers are reluctant to meet these groups. In the case of temporary employment, they are given the opportunity to demonstrate in practice that they are adequate. Because they do – usually! Employers reduce their risk and it makes it easier to hire. Several start their professional career as a temporary employee for a shorter period, without this being problematic. On the other hand, it may be less favourable if you go involuntaryly as a temporary employee for many years. You may not get to participate in the development of skills in the same way as regular employees. Perhaps there is uncertainty about the future. Therefore, the right is concerned with reducing the thresholds from temporary to permanent employment. The new Work Environment Act proposes to legislate on non-discrimination between permanent and temporary workers, both in terms of pay and working conditions in enterprises, and to legislate on a maximum period of time before entitlement to permanent employment. The bill prohibits series recruitment so that no one can circumvent these provisions by constantly recruiting new persons in the same temporary position. I would also like to stress the fact that the law that is now adopted is not intended to restrict the current legislation in relation to seasonal work. I am concerned that companies in particularly vulnerable industries depend on predictability and an extensive possibility of temporarily hiring during the season. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that enterprises that rely on seasonal work exist in many different sectors, and they will depend on clear and predictable rules. There is also good reason to say a little about the need to protect against retaliation when alerting critical situations in an enterprise. There will be a broad consensus here in Odelstinget on a stronger protection of alerts. There is a need for this, while the real freedom of expression of employees should be strengthened. It is also important to remember that the proposal contained in the proposal was not intended to be the final answer to this need, but an important step on the way. Then it is appropriate to mention that work has been started to clarify the rules governing the freedom of expression of employees and the limits of the obligation of loyalty. This work has been promised by the turn of the year 2005–2006 and is expected to be reflected in concrete proposals for new legislation or other measures. Therefore, what is on the table today is more to be regarded as a preliminary consideration of this issue. But I would like to stress that there is an important difference between what lies as a majority recommendation here and the proposal of the government parties. In my view, it would have great consequences if, as the majority suggests, freedom of expression should be limited to being valid only if the warning is not contrary to other law. This will, for example: concerns the obligation of professional secrecy imposed by law on personal data. Today, illegal restrictions for reasons of public interest, national security, privacy, protection against harassment and business secrets, including: Another consequence of the proposal is that protection against retaliation is limited to external opinions only, i.e. what the proposal mentions as public opinion. We have enough experience to ensure that workers can also have an equal need for protection against retaliation in cases where there is an internal alert in the establishment. This is why government parties have promoted a proposal that in its form actually goes a little further in the protection of alerts. But in my opinion, the difference will probably be to live with, especially when we know about the work already mentioned, which has been started to clarify the rules on the freedom of expression of employees and the limits of loyalty. In this context, it is important to stress that there must be a target for the process initiated by the Ministry in order to find effective protection of alerts covering the entire working life at the same time. In this respect, it may be appropriate to point out that the so-called ‘information protection’ in Sweden, mentioned by some as an exemplary example, only applies in the public sector. On this basis, I am delighted to present the proposals in the Committee's position, both the proposals of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party and the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e173	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e176	This proposal for a new work environment law essentially represents a continuation of the main content of the current work environment law of 1977. This statutory audit will therefore not entail any fundamental changes of a comprehensive character for Norwegian working life, as I see it. However, the audit implies that some adjustments are made in some areas, which represent the necessary upgrade and modernisation in relation to the current labour law. There should be no doubt that Norwegian working life has been subject to an important and good law that regulates many different aspects of working life, both in terms of occupational safety and protection, and in terms of labour-related welfare schemes for workers. The new Work Environment Act does not in any way deserve characteristics such as the weakening, furrowing or brutalisation of Norwegian working life, as some have tried to produce it. On the other hand, the work environment law that will be adopted represents a necessary improvement and a timely update of Norwegian work environment legislation that will continue to ensure a very high national standard in the health, environmental and safety areas of Norwegian workplaces. This is a law of employment that Norway can be absolutely familiar with on an international scale. The new Labour Environment Act is intended to provide for a wide range of important and general societal considerations and the purpose of the law is to meet the needs of both workers, businesses and society. These are sensible provisions of purpose. The basic principle of the law is to ensure a labour-environment law that provides the basis for a health-promoting and meaningful work situation and to prevent as far as possible physical and mental adverse effects in the workplace. In this context, it is an important ambition for the Labour Environment Act to contribute to reducing the increasing exclusion from working life by creating a more inclusive working life and reducing the level of disability and health care. It is also an important objective of the law to increasingly integrate people with disabilities better into working life. This is a very legitimate ambition. The law also reflects an ambition to facilitate the further standing of the seniors in the workplace, and this is also, in my view, a very important dimension of the new law. A full revision of a law that has such a social significance as the Working Environment Act is not an easy task at all. All party fractions in the Municipal Committee have put a lot of work into the new Labour Environment Act. At the same time, the number of input from organisations and the hearing bodies has been very high, and they have been extensive. It is an almost completely impossible task to prepare all parties for the adoption of a new law that has such a great social and welfare significance as the Labour Environment Act actually has. I noticed that both the employer’s side and the employee’s side have expressed themselves critically in part of the content of the bill. The employer side with the NHO in mind has considered that the new law provides too little modern and simplified legislation for the labour market, and has also been critical of the fact that the law does not necessarily allow for local adaptations in individual enterprises. On the labour side, with LO at the head, there are in particular proposals for a general extension of access to temporary employment, as well as the proposal for some changes to the working time arrangements and changes in the right to stand in the event of a dispute of termination which has aroused unrest and resentment. Especially on the part of the worker, it has been used to speak harshly against these proposals – words that have been used extensively to break the labour market, furrowing, weakening and eroding the work environment law. So it hasn't been missing on the tabloid slogans of the critics, but the content of that kind of statement is obviously hard to elaborate. For the truth, the majority of Norwegian work has improved in recent decades, and this positive development in working life is most likely to continue in the years to come, and even after this new law has entered into force. This revision of the law does not imply a general standard reduction in relation to the law in force, rather on the contrary. In the areas where changes are made to the Working Environment Act, I believe this is to be seen as improvements for Norwegian working life and Norwegian workers in general. My view, therefore, is that this new law does not in any way deserve the misleading and degrading characteristics that have been passed. In some areas, the current work environment law is to be regarded as an old-fashioned and out-of-date. The current law was adopted 28 years ago, and we know that much has changed significantly in Norwegian working life since 1977. Although it has been done since 1977 approx. Forty major and minor changes in the Working Environment Act, there was absolutely a lack of sense in making a complete review of the whole law, as we are doing now. The legislative proposal we are discussing today therefore leads to an update that better facilitates the necessary level of flexibility in the labour market and is better adapted to a labour market as it changes faster and faster. It is important for Norwegian jobs and our competitiveness to be in line with the legislation of other countries, for example. access to temporary employment and also some flexibility in relation to working time arrangements. Norway has thus received one of the world's most stringent labour protection laws, if we consider the law from an international perspective. Few countries, you ask me, if any, today have a comprehensive and detailed work environment legislation like Norway. In this legislative process, the Progress Party has tried to contribute to the formulation of a law that is as balanced as possible for Norwegian working life, which takes into account the needs of both workers, businesses and society as much as possible. The Progress Party has therefore contributed to the creation of a majority for parts of the law together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, but the Progress Party has, in all respects, formed a majority together with the government parties in most areas of the Government's proposal for law. In fact, when we look at the scope and complexity of Norwegian work environment legislation, it is impressive that there is such a great deal of cross-political consensus as there are on many of the provisions of the law. The vast majority of the government's proposals are the reasonable degree of cross-political agreement, and most of the content of the law has broad political support, which I think is very joyful. On the other hand, of course, there is nothing to be expected other than that there will be some disagreement on some aspects of a completely new law for the labour market. However, when the Progress Party now supports the proposal to soften the legislation on temporary employment, we do so because we sincerely believe that it benefits and benefits employment and employment with increased access to temporary employment. We in the Progress Party strongly reject the fact that increased access to temporary employment means brutalisation or some form of rapprochement of Norwegian working life or work environment legislation. Of course, regular employment shall remain the general rule. Studies also show that 90 pst. by Norwegian employers prefer permanent employment as a general rule. At the same time, however, three out of four managers say that they will hire more people if an extended access to temporary employment is introduced. I have often confirmed this view myself on various company visits in my own part of the country. It is also positive that more people get temporary work experience in their working life, and studies show that two out of three temporary workers are actually in permanent employment after three years. Well, that's it, President. In conclusion, I would just like to clarify that the Progress Party supports the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Zenterpartie to § 2 4 on page 27 of the vote, that the employee has the right to inform the public about critical matters in the company where this is not contrary to other law. I'm asking the President to notice this in relation to voting. Otherwise, I will also have to make a correction in relation to the setting. This correction means that the Progress Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 19, from the government parties, to the second paragraph of Section 16-2 and proposal No. 20, from the government parties, to the first and second paragraphs of Section 16-3. I assume the President has brought this with him, so that the vote will be correct in this area. I would just like to end by including in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e210	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has promoted the proposals to which he referred. The President has also noticed that there are some changes in the voting system and will see to it that it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e215	I guess the latest changes from the Progress Party just prove what we've all thought for a long time, that the Progress Party is a wing party. The lot is completely unreliable in terms of reaching correct political positions in order to safeguard the interests of employees. Since most of the people in this country are workers and the Progress Party claims that they are a party to people most, I have to say that they have clearly proved here that agreements are valid, just not for the employees and their rights. It's just these things the Progress Party has gone away. The main challenge for Norwegian society is that more and more people are being swept out of work. It's a three-third accident. First, it's deeply tragic for those involved, because so much of our social life is tied up to having work. We are part of teams and organisations, in trade union and in meetings, and have large parts of our social community tied up to the workplace. The same applies to the identity. Something else in this context is, of course, that you're at risk of falling dramatically into income because of conditions at work that hurt you, and we know there's too much of it. The second is that we know that the people who are being pushed out of work are a huge loss of resources for the labour force and for society as a whole, because we know that the most important resource and input factor in Norwegian society, the most important national asset, is not our oil wealth, but it's the work done by the people who are here in the country. And not taking care of employees is the same thing as throwing money at the sea. That's the same thing as saying that this part, what people provide, is something we don't appreciate enough to make sure that we take care of the employees. When we look at the huge unsolved tasks that exist in society, I think it's strange that we have a majority here on the Storting that won't take better care of the workforce that exists to solve the challenges of society. The third is that in spite of everything we do — and it should be more — to ensure that people who are excluded from the labour market can once again participate and provide in the labour market, we know that the longer it takes before people get back into the labour market, the more obsolete the knowledge they have, and the less likely it is that people can reenter the labour market. Overall, this is the main challenge for the whole of Norwegian society: to avoid people slipping out of work. We know that 20 pst. Norwegian workers have a working environment which is harmful to health. And if this government had done their job, they would have systematically focused on what can be done to make the share of 20 pst. can get smaller. But that's not what we see again in this Working Environment Act that's presented here. We do not see the systematic work done by several research communities both in Norway and abroad to contribute to research into working life, in order to ensure that a work environment law is created that aims primarily at reducing the number of people exposed to a health-related work environment. I think it is completely incomprehensible that we have a Minister of Labour who makes a work environment law that there is no scientific backing to lead to fewer sick people, fewer disabled people and more workers who are able to work longer. The latter is a major challenge, especially given that recently in the Grand Duchy, the Council of State was able to implement a pension reform that forces people to stay longer in work, preferably until they are over 70 years old, in order to get as much of their salary in retirement as they do today. The same Council of State will today have an impact on a work environment law that will enable fewer workers to work at retirement age. I want to address several different points here in the Working Environment Act, and I want to start with alerts. I want to grasp what Hans Kristian Hogsnes said in relation to alerts. I think it is very positive that we have joined the Workers' Party in this context, that the Workers' Party has now joined – I kept saying – the offensive remarks made by SV and the Progress Party in dealing with freedom of expression and issues related to freedom of expression. There I think it is good that we came up with a unified bill that we are now going to have an impact on. At the same time, we know that there is going to be further work that is likely to make the protection of workers even better than it is when the majority – consisting of the Centre Party, SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party – are today taking advantage of a new legislative formulation. But I would like, as I said, to grasp some of what Hans Kristian Hogsnes said. We must not interpret the law antithetically, as it exists. In other words, the law as it stands cannot be understood exhaustively, in the sense that it is clearly the intention of the majority to include internal alerts. I think other speakers here will underline that. The second is that I think the government fraction is far out of reach when they say that a number of things that are today about the security of the kingdom, silence-related information, and that are illegal principles, will no longer apply, with what we get the majority for today. All of this is regulated by other laws, and it's just these things that we think it's important to make sure of course is continued in connection with this that goes on alert. So there I think the government fraction shoots far beyond the goal. Now that the Progress Party has joined our proposal, I would like to ask that our proposal, which concerns that very thing, with warning, proposal 30, be converted into a transmission proposal, which follows on from the work of the government-appointed committee. The aim of the ALU, the Labour Law Committee, was, among other things: to make labour law more modern, by appreciating some of the changes that have occurred in working life. One of the things that's happened in the workplace is that you've got more complex ownership structures. However, this has not been reflected in the law as it now exists. In 1996, the group committee put in place a position which is precisely addressed by this problem, that there are many actors – other than the employer, who are responsible to each employee – who can have an influence and influence over the individual’s employment. The group committee said that it is natural that this should also be followed up, by allowing actors around the individual’s employer to also assume some of the obligations towards the employee. However, this has not been done by the Government, and the courts have established that there is a need for an extended concept of employer if you want to keep up with the time and ensure that employees have the rights they have had in relation to the old law. This means that a majority of the committee – but unfortunately not on Stortinget – has wanted to follow up the position of the Concert Committee and create an expanded concept of employers. This is something that would actually be an offensive act to meet a changed working life. Especially in relation to migration processes, I think this is important, because when it comes to migration processes, STAMI – the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work – has pointed out that mortality is rising among the people who are left. So the mortality is quadrupled among employees who remain in a company, if you have a death penalty of more than 18 pst. I think that is quite dramatic, and among other things. In this respect, we believe that the concept of employer should have been transformed in order to give more workers greater protection. I want to go over to say something about working time. STAMI has also pointed out that the working environment law and the working time regulations we had before 2003 were, in itself, harmful to health, in the sense that when people work more than 60 hours, they have a double chance of getting heart and cartilage. So it's harmful to work too much. Nevertheless, during this ageing period, the Government has not done anything to address the health challenges associated with this, but on the contrary has helped to open up more hours of work. This is some of that a red-green government, if we get a majority after the election, will immediately make sure to change and go more closely into, because the arrangement that the blue-yellow government has put up during its period is harmful to health. Compared to the tour, there is an old requirement on the SV side to equate shifts and turns, which are harmful to health and which are equally harmful to health. So this is something that we've been for a long time, which has been a woman's requirement, and which has been an equality requirement, because it's primarily about women, and it's been one thing that we've wanted to change. Now we've got a wide arrangement from LO – this is something they also want to do with. I find it particularly disappointing that we do not get a majority for this, and I find it disappointing that the Workers' Party joins the Government in some very small obligatory remarks on this. If it had been up to us, we should follow up on what the trade union movement is saying widely is an important requirement, and do something about it immediately. When it comes to temporary employment, I would like to refer again to what Hans Kristian Hogsnes says, namely that more people are starting their work today as temporary employees. Yes, what is just the point from the left-hand side and from the centre-left option is that there are already great opportunities for temporary employment. In addition, a probationary period is available for employers if they wish to do so. So it is completely unnecessary to go on a politically determined and non-professional extension to more temporary employment, because we know from European experience that this leads to more temporary workers, but no more jobs and no more employees. I point out, as the Labour Party Sigvald Uppøen Hansen did, to Steinar Holden, who says that there is no professional evidence to say what the right side claims, namely that more people will get into temporary employment. One of the issues that has been discussed is the issue of occupational health services, whether it should cover everyone. We think it should. We also see that a number of countries with which we should like to compare have joined international conventions to ensure that occupational health services cover everyone. We therefore believe that it is right to adopt a gradual extension of the occupational health service and that it should be subject to an approval system to ensure that the quality is good enough. In addition, we believe that we should provide more regional protection agencies in industries where there is currently a low level of organisation. We therefore have positive experience with regional protection agencies in industries such as construction, and we believe that in the service sector, in the commercial sector and in other services, we should have arrangements with regional protection agencies. We have therefore proposed an extension of this, and I do not understand that the Government should be against the extension that we are proposing, which is an extension linked to a system of chance, i.e. something that the Government itself can choose to follow up. With regard to the right of priority in the full-time position of part-time employees, we are pleased that the Government has seized this. But we are afraid that the proposal as it stands by the Government will only be a rail proposal – all the time you have to go to the courts if you want to have your right to a full-time job – simply because it is a great burden for an employee to stand in a position and be in conflict with his employer, tied up to just such issues as work. That is why, together with the Progress Party, we have wanted to have a majority in favour, and we are pleased to see that this should be resolved by the new subject of the dispute, and I believe that the Government should see whether more matters should not be resolved by a dispute subject. With this I address all the proposals in which we are proposers or co-sponsors, with the exception of proposal No. So 30, which I have explained earlier, should be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e266	The President assumes that it is proposal No. 31 the representative will turn into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e269	If the President says so, I have great confidence in the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e274	The President is absolutely convinced that this is the proposal. Otherwise, the Size must be transmitted and re-opened when it is processed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e278	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e283	Otherwise the representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e286	Many have improved, including in the workplace. We have better pay than before, we work less than before, we have better education than before. 90 pst. of all those working, have permanent additions, and women in Norway are active. This law is designed to protect workers in Norway. But it is also a modernisation, so that it fits the industry and the workplaces that meet employees today. We can't copy the 70s. It's a bad game. Many have improved. This law certainly does not lead to the brutalization of working life, as has been claimed. We actually take care of people. Workers' rights have increased and improved, welfare systems have increased and improved. But we have some challenges. That over 4 pst. is unemployed in Norway, is not acceptable, although it is lowest in Europe. The fact that 700,000 people are dissatisfaction or social welfare is perhaps worse. In addition, we are on the way to an elder wave, where the number of pensioners will double, from 900,000 today to about 1.8 million. That's why the workline, where people come to work, and a business life that makes employees happy, to work and to be long at work, are very important. We have to take care of the employees. Then we need a modern and adapted work environment law. That is what we are adopting today. I would like to stress that there is of course no contradiction between protecting workers and promoting the needs of society and industry. I would also like to remind you that Norway is a small business country. We have 86 000 companies that have less than five added. In these companies, the difference between owners and employees is not what matters. It's not us and them – it's us. One works together to keep up work and pay. And if one looked at itself excitedly adding one extra to each of these companies, the unemployment in Norway would be gone. Reducing the threshold to assign people instead of spending more overtime in all these micro-enterprises is very important for employment and productivity. Therefore, the opening for more flexible use of temporary addition is very important. It will often mean work for someone who is, alternatively, unemployed. It will mean the foot within. This means that young people can show them what they do. This means that immigrants can show that they can. This will mean that the disabled can show that they can do a job. It'll very likely mean increasing employment, more at work, and that's what we want. The fact that we have the most small and micro-enterprises also means that the need for simplification of the law is important. Small enterprises do not have the ability to use resources in a law that is difficult to access. Of course, this applies in all areas, but not least in relation to work environment law and HMS work, which is so important for individual workers. I hope that the government will take care of the small businesses in the fall to do well for the simplification that will take place in this area. I would add that if everyone in this house had tried to run a business for a year, or be the founder, I believe that the simplification had been completely radical. The difference between the Government and the left-hand side is actually minimal when it comes to working time. We're certain that the normal working time should be as now, and at most one should be able to work 13 hours a day and 48 hours a week, and use eight weeks as an average. What is the difference is whether you can have individual contracts or whether you need to check professional union and work supervision. With that farm culture and structure Norway has there 87 pst. of the enterprises are small and medium-sized, the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party on the possibility of individual agreements is absolutely sensible, forward-looking and adaptable to reality, as I see it, and I am pleased that it gets multiples. It certainly does not mean a harder work life. It just means freedom and understanding. And that might mean a little less power to the trade unions, but a little bit more flexibility. It gives benefits to both workers and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e303	Ot. pp. No 49 is a comprehensive matter. It is a matter on which Stortinget would like to have had a better time. It has not yet been possible. There were also no plurals for postponing this case. I want to give the case spokesperson Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen credit for a very tidy and nine-time work to get as good a recommendation as possible for Stortinget. What is the most remote resource in various activities? It's quite clear that they're adding knowledge and competence, adding commitment and well-being, and are genuinely busy doing a good job for the enterprise. The centre party takes seriously the fact that many companies are unfortunately experiencing a different development. Owners far away from those adding require increased efficiency and higher returns. Municipalities labor with tight economy and push several tasks into fewer hands. Health activities follow up the same way. It's the same with other government enterprises. The average age at work is falling, the number of unemployed persons is increasing. 100,000 are unemployed, hundreds of thousands are out of work, many of them against their will, between the 20,000 more disabled only in the last year. There is a new law on the working environment that needs to be seen in this context. The centre party does not accept a law that weakens the rights of deferred groups. We want more, no less security. We want more, not less-negligible schemes for shiftworkers, for low-paid workers and for jobs where there is a link between the length of the working day and the safety of both employees and the public. The central party wants the new law to be a protection law. We are in agreement with the Labour Party and SV throughout for a more inclusive working life and for a reversal of the liberalisation for which a Right-dominated Government today receives multiple numbers by means of the Progress Party. It is brutal to lay down a law that excludes more, not fewer, of those on the way into work, the need for stable income and means of borrowing, security of establishment, housing and family income. We were alarmed by the backward holding government when we proposed tightening the rules relating to extended labour migration from 1 January last year. Some of the same things happen now: a more unsafe and more brutal working life can be the result. The centre party has reason to remind you that there is actually flexibility in relation to overtime and temporary additions even today. We strongly disagree with the Government's proposal to extend the total working time limit to 13 hours per year. days and 60 hours per day week. We're stuck at 9 hours a.m. days and 54 hours per day. week. We don't see any reason for a change in the definition of "night" and find it strange that the government will change today's definition, from 5 p.m. 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. 6:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. 22.00 to 22.00 p.m. 6:00 a.m. Nor do we see any serious reasons for opening up more opportunities for temporary addition. When about 10 pst. employees have been temporarily added, tell them about the flexibility that already exists. When the Committee's hearing shows that there are industries based on up to 50 pst. temporary addition, there would actually be reason for the Government to check it more closely rather than propose the extension. We also focus on the clear messages that come from professionals at this point. We have no faith that there are more of those who are more likely to work on the change that the majority are going to make today. Let me stress that there is a great difference between the liberal rules that should be for seasonal work and the extension of the general legislation for temporary inclusion. The issue of equality and rotation has been the issue in Stortinget several times in the last 10–15 years. It is good that a plurality in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, in a note, asks the Government to take initiatives towards the parties with a view to a common definition, but all the nurses and assistants who are currently working two hours more per. weeks and two weeks more per week. years, had ignited something more concrete. Strong warnings have come from, for example: both KS and NATO against going further. The argumentation is the extra cost of such a scheme. I would strongly advise the Centre's proposal, No. Thirty-two. There we ask the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to prepare the implementation of a change in law that ensures equality between three-part turns and shifts. So in a work like this, there's a possibility to come up with a definition that all of us are in, but there's no way to put things aside afterwards. On the contrary, it is possible to review the costs associated with the highest necessary and fairest change. We are pleased that the government has started a work beyond the Labour Law Committee's recommendation both when it concerns the right of priority for part-time work, and when it concerns warnings. This is where good processes are going. It is important to ensure more opportunities for the whole position. In fact, it will strengthen the competence of many municipalities that they are forced to think more about the whole position of more of those who want it. In the Center Party, we want this to also apply to government settings in groups. When it comes to warning, it's good that a broad majority change the law today, so it's clear that retaliation in relation to those who say it is outlawed. I'm surprised by the consequences that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party draw at this point, and that they're worried about the information that's mandatory and much more. This is actually not what this is all about. One of the many issues that have been raised is whether a new work environment law should clarify the law or whether one here should be able to clarify more than today in regulations. For us, this is perfectly clear. It is easier both for the companies and for them to adhere to a law as smart as possible. Let me remind you that there are far more open and controversial processes associated with changes in a law than with making changes in regulations. So this is what this debate is using the term'modern'. It's important, let me have it said, to adapt a new law to the working life that is today. That's what's modern. From the Center Party's side, we're some of the things that it's important to keep track of how the working life is organized at any given time. It is important to listen to recordings that come from both employers and employees. But for us, it's actually not old-fashioned – it's against the future – to have a work environment law that clearly expresses a protection for those who add security, which provides stability in a very changing working life. We are part of a number of committees – in conjunction with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party – about a proposal that we would have liked to have seen in the Chamber today. We sincerely hope that we will get another multiple to the fall, which will allow us to fight in important areas. Finally, I would like to address and recommend proposal No. Thirty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e348	The President has understood that it will be proposal No. 33, from the Centre Party, and not proposal No. Thirty-two. Then the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has at least taken up his own proposal, if that was not exactly what she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e353	As has been said by the Government in this matter, there have been major changes in working life since the adoption of the Labour Environment Act in 1977. We are now getting a law that is up-to-date and better adapted to today's and tomorrow's work. It strengthens the worker's position and protection while giving greater freedom to local agreements. The left strongly disagrees with the black paint that the red government option is included in this case. We see that the Labour Party, which in 2001 saw the need for modernisation and shut down the Labour Law Committee, is now jumping from a forward-looking policy under pressure from its sponsors in LO. The newspaper last wrote that the Left and Christian People's Party must have slept an hour since they could participate in an embellishment of temporary employment. It is probably the Newspaper that has slept – and it has for a long time – and has not discovered that both of these parties have had it in their programs for a long time. Increased access to temporary employment is a good social policy for those who need easier access to employment than they currently have. It's also a good small business policy, because it makes it easier to hire new people without having to take the chance of a firm position that you're not sure the company can carry until you've tried it. For example, a family business can now choose to hire a person temporarily rather than work a lot of overtime at the expense of the family. It could hinder many 60-hour weeks, as Heikki Holmås spoke of. Government and government parties clearly state that there is a regular work to be the general rule. We say that the impact of the new provisions should be evaluated, and there should be clear limits on how long people can be temporarily employed. There is also a clear message that no one can use the scheme by using several temporary employees successively for the same task. So, not with such boundaries, the socialist parties will open up a system that will allow more new people to enter the labour market. Solidarity lies, as always, when it comes to the matter, with those inside. In the resistance there is also a fear of impaired job protection, for which the left cannot see that there is a basis. But we will clearly assess it if there is a problem. We also see a traditional socialist suspicion of the employer. But who's going to be interested in scalding and choosing with employees for six months, to keep getting new people in, if you have a permanent need for help and already have someone trained for the job? No, there is not much trust and confidence in the future from the red side, nor much solidarity with those who have difficulty getting into the labour market. There is a lot of good news from the Government in this law. One of the major advances in the Government's proposal, according to the Left, is the protection of freedom of expression for employees who are to tell about illegalities and doubts in their own activities. This is an area where the Left has worked for a long time, and we have held our own hearing at Stortinget on the matter. There are now two different legal formulations, without the vast practical difference. The left will vote in favour of the Government's proposal, sail if we are not entirely comfortable with all the arguments used against the second proposal. But it's broken ground. In both proposals, the word ‘right’ is used to refer to something that should be strictly mandatory in the case of illegal relationships at the workplace. What was learned from the hearing, and the lesson I personally have learned from many alerts, is that lawmaking is just a small part of the whole thing. What's important is the work that the Government has now started. What both professionals and lawyers say is that there is a need for a support device — legal assistance, legal standing skills, legal freezing of situations, and for securing evidence. This work is the next step in the fight both for freedom of expression, against corruption and for the suppression of other crimes. One of the most important factors in a legal state is the protection of witnesses — witnesses who say so. If we cannot have a legal security of witnesses, we cannot have a legal state either. But when it comes to what is in practice behind what many alerts discover, we know that it's not just having the juice on its side, but you also have to have a support device that can pat you on your shoulder, tell you what's wise to do, and that can be a support in a completely different way than what a law clause, adopted in this room, is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e376	The main objective of the government's employment policy is a working life with room for all. The Working Environment Act is an important contribution to this. The starting point of the proposal is to protect the health, well-being and safety of workers. The starting point is that: ensuring a good occupational safety and health promotion and a meaningful employment situation ensuring a safe employment barrier to discrimination contributing to an inclusive working life I am pleased that a total increase expresses that the Work Environment Act has been and is one of the most important conditions for ensuring healthy and valuable jobs. I am glad that a total increase ends up in the Government's basic view that the Working Environment Act is still a protection law. We need such a work environment law. We need a law that regulates working time and employment, which regulates safety and health at work. We need a work environment law that is adapted to today’s and tomorrow’s work life – a law that contributes to a living, innovative and competitive business, a clearer law with greater emphasis on local solutions that provide greater flexibility for businesses and individual workers, and a law that contributes to orderly and predictable relations between the parties. The government has put forward a proposal that is in line with this. We have proposed a cautious extension of access to temporary employment because the threshold into the labour market needs to be reduced. We know that young people, immigrants and people with disabilities face extra major challenges in finding their first job. That's why we think a greater access to temporary employment can make it easier for these groups. However, regular employment remains the main rule in Norwegian working life, but temporary employment is far better than not having a job. Nevertheless, we must avoid forced workers to walk in long-term temporary employment. Therefore, the Government proposes a maximum period of four years for the duration of temporary employment. We also propose a specific provision on the right to permanent employment after one year in cases where temporary employment has been provided for under the new general provision on temporary employment. The government will prevent you from replacing one temporary employee with another. We do this by legislating the principle that temporary employees have the right to continue if the work continues. In other words, so-called series employment in the same temporary exposure would not be permitted. The employment protection rules provide for protection and safer workplaces. Workers shall be treated fairly and in accordance with foreseeable rules. That's why we have rules that describe what happens if a cancellation feels unfair and unaccountable. If this happens, you can go to court – and have the right to continue in the position until the case is settled in the Court of Justice. It is for the benefit of the workers. In the Court of Justice there must be a clear overweight of arguments on the part of the employer in order to disqualify an employee from the right to stand in office. It is further to the benefit of employees. Of course, the appeals are available to both parties. But then the question arises: If the Court considers that the termination was correct, after having given a high degree of emphasis to the views of the employee, is it reasonable that the employer can terminate the employment relationship? Or should an employer, who thus has a valid reason for dismissal and who has received legal support, be forced to pay out of the problem? The government's proposals in this area are employee friendly. But it also takes into account law-abiding employers and their legitimate interests. It does not make the alternative proposal in the committee position. We have proposed a law that makes it better for women and men to combine work with care at home. Working time is an important health factor, of great importance to the working environment and to the relationship between work and leisure/family life. The government provides for more flexible working time arrangements, and it will make it easier for the employer and the employee to enter into work and working time agreements that are suitable for both parties. But there must be a sound framework around this freedom. I see that it is claimed that the government has proposed an extension of the normal working day. That's not right. The Government continues and extends the possibility of agreeing the average calculation of the general working time. This option exists today – everyone with flexibility uses it. Such average calculation means that the worker may work a few days and weeks in addition to the normal working day, but the average, which today shall not exceed 9 hours per. 40 hours per day or 40 hours per day. week. Thus, all working hours worked in addition to normal working hours, which are not overtime, must be avoided. In addition to this, work beyond normal working hours is overtime — i.e. that today's demands for overtime and overtime pay continue, because this helps to limit too much work and prevent people from falling out of work. There must be a framework to ensure that workers do not wear out over time. This is why the Government proposes a framework for overall working time that reduces the possibility of working very long working weeks for longer consecutive periods. More than ever before, the objective of an inclusive working life for workers of all ages must be reflected in the individual provisions of the Working Environment Act. For this reason, the Government has focused on strengthening the systematic health, environmental and safety work of establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e427	The Government proposes that the current Services Act be repealed and that the most possible employment conditions be harmonised with the rules of the Work Environment Act. The Labour Party believes that it is unfortunate to make this change now, without having our dialogue with the parties during the work on the bill. The Labour Law Selection said the following about this question: «The provisions of the Employment Protection Act are one of several elements which constitute the total wage and working conditions of the State and cannot be assessed as being separate from this totality. However, the sample has not been able to make an assessment of the overall picture.» This underpins my claim that it should have been a comprehensive process before the Government made such a proposal. My question is therefore: why are the Council of State and the Department opposed to establishing an independent legislative selection to review and assess the role of the service staff in the state before proposing such a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e441	Let me first take the opportunity to thank the representative Upbeøen Hansen for the praise he gave in his main contribution, because the Government has presented a better product than the Labour Law Committee, from which he has now quoted. I agree. So Upbebøen Hansen raises a question related to a matter that Odelstinget does not deal with today, but is for treatment. The main point of view of the Government is that the main issue relating to working conditions/working time, which is to be laid down by law, should be consistently similar for all workers in Norway, whether they are employed in the public sector, in the state, in the municipalities or in the private sector. We cannot see very strong reasons why an employee in the local government sector should have a significantly different framework for their working environment than for employees in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e449	I think I want to show that on the morning question today I received a phone call from an employer in South Africa who has a smaller business and who said to me: Tell the Council of State that my company has five employees. I do not have the same administrative capacity to operate the laws, regulations and form fields that the large companies have. It's like that, for example. one-person enterprises are in fact in majority with regard to the number of Norwegian enterprises. So we have a business structure there about. 87 pst. by enterprises having less than 20 employees. So my questions to the Council of State are: how does the Council of State assess the need for simplification of e.g. the number of HMS regulations? That's a huge number of these regulations. How does the Council of States consider progress in the simplification process regarding the number of HMS regulations as appropriate? What view does he have of this with small enterprises and their administrative capacity problems to deal with the large form field and the legislation that is actually there?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e456	Both big business, government and ministry do well to remember that most Norwegian jobs are in small businesses. This means that we should seek to simplify the legislation relating to activities in general and to small businesses in particular. That's what this government is doing. There has been extensive simplification work during this large-scale period in a number of areas. But I am a little surprised when this question is asked by the representative Andersen in this context related to the HMS Code, because the Government in the Proposition has, of course, presented some provisions that have just been aimed at simplifying the legislation of the law in the case of HMS provisions. The Progress Party has chosen to oppose the Government's proposal. This applies, for example: current detailed rules on protection ombudsmen and on current detailed rules on occupational health and safety at work. Then it becomes a little hollow, if I may say so, when, in a separate proposal, the Progress Party asks the Government to put forward proposals to simplify the HMS Code.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e463	: There has been a desire from the Government, at least from several of the government parties on the Stortinget, to make a more modern working environment law. You can even write in the setting: ‘These members record that the left-hand side largely wants to preserve the status quo and the work environment law as adopted in 1977’ – as evidence that we are not so modern. But the government is putting up with a policy that makes us go even further back, both in terms of temporary employment and in terms of working time, than it was in 1977. I would like to ask you a question about who the Council of State thinks is the most modern in that context. The second is that we have a government council that is a former health minister, who says that this should still be a protection law. I would like to refer to STAMI, who recommends that occupational health services should be compulsory for all businesses, with a gradual extension. But the Council of State won't listen to them. STAMI says that they oppose temporary employment, among other things. for the sake of pregnant women, but the Government opposes it. Why does the former Minister of Health not agree with the recommendations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e475	The concepts of rematching and reversing start to become standard concepts in SV's vocabulary – as in this case too. What we're concerned about is adapting the law to the working life we have today, while at the same time ensuring that it's a solid and robust protection law, a law that's robust in terms of changes in the world of work. And those changes have been formidable since 1977. That was probably why the Workers' Party, under Jens Stoltenberg's leadership in the government quarter, put down the Labour Law Committee. That is also why we have promoted this bill. We definitely believe that we have found a good balance, and I note that Thorbjørn Berntsen, who was the case rapporteur for the Working Environment Act in 1977, agrees. He says to LO on 14 March that the Council of State has actually exercised a useful political craft, that he has satisfied both parties, and that he should have a reputation for having tamed in the Labour Law Committee's proposal and tightened up the rules for overtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e482	First, to the Service Manager's Law, where change processes are important. It is probably also for government action when the Labour Law Selection suggests that a self-regulatory legal selection looks at coordination. Is it not really a bad starting point for the Government in relation to good processes when the Government now takes this quick turn as they do, by suggesting approach now? So for the equalization of three shift turns and shift work. Does the Council of State believe that there is anything in the fact that the sick leave can go down if a company changes here? Does he think that there is a fair requirement for an equalizing company?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e489	No changes have been proposed by the Government to the provisions on the general working time of shifts and turns. It means, and it is made clear in the proposition, that if the rotation work is comparable to the shift work, it is also to be equated with this in the general working hours. In the statement, the Government is asked to take the initiative to bring together the social partners in order to arrive at a unified definition of comparable turnaround work, and if the parties do not come up with a solution, it is necessary to reconsider the need to change the definition of comparable turnaround work in the law. What we think is that the law provides a basis for equality when services are equally burdensome. This should be followed up much more in practice in the workplace, and the effect will be seen to be as the representative of Meltveit Kleppa believes it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e498	I did not get a response to my first line and then I concluded that this is a sore point for the Government. But I have another question that's related to special industries, and then I'll especially mention the asphalt industry. They have many climatic realities that they have to adapt to. With today’s decision to liberalise and extend the use of temporary inclusion, this industry has to comply with the 12-month rule. In other words, if one is temporarily assigned for a four-month period of the year for three years, it will require permanent addition. The working party is not against the principle of fixed addition, but sees that it can create major formalistic challenges for this industry. Furthermore, such a system would impair the stability of competence of this industry. My question is, why won't the department continue the same seasonal work ratio as in the current law?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e505	The representative Oppebøen Hansen got a response to his first line. The problem was that he didn't like the answer. I would like to repeat that, if he did not get it: there are very few and weak reasons for – if any – that there should be one environmental protection regime for government employees in the municipalities and another environmental protection regime for government employees in the country. That is the main reason why we are in favour of harmonising the law, and that we are doing it now when we have a full review of the work environment law. So to the question of the right to permanent employment after having been employed for one year in a temporary post. I actually thought that the Workers' Party was committed to strengthening employees' rights in the legislation. This is a clear strengthening of the rights of employees. It is clear that there may be some adjustments in different industries, but I think it is a very important part of the proposal, namely that we strengthen this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e512	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e515	The working party will strengthen the protection of workers. We will prevent workers from losing their rights, weakening their job protection and increasing overtime pressure. We want to protect the health, safety and well-being of workers. The Workers' Party believes that conversion and efficiency should not be at the expense of workers' rights and the working environment. And we do not accept that more and more individuals are being individualised by the fact that the level of agreement in several areas is being moved from the organisations to the individual employee. Great tax relief has gone to those who have the most from before. The unemployed have had a huge cut in the unemployment allowance. This shows the government's unsocial policy. The government of the day and the majority of the population have challenged the trade movement in the area by area. This concerns the Labour Environment Act, pension policy and contractual labour rights. The Progress Party has been co-responsible for this policy in Stortinget. The Progress Party is a trade union enemy party, which will undermine the importance of trade movement in our society. A continued strong Right- predominant government will continue to undermine central professional interests and rights. Unemployment is a waste of human resources, it reinforces the differences in society and poses a threat to well-being. Consideration of competition and profit is given to human considerations. The labour market is continuing to break down. Today's policies help many people to get out of work. The Labour Party will fight for a society based on Community solutions, economic and social protection for individuals, smaller differences and a working life with room for all. This is why the Workers' Party is opposed to facilitating overtime use, which creates even more laboured people. Therefore, we will reverse the changes made in 2003. The Labour Party does not want to weaken the rights of workers in the sick pay scheme, so people cannot afford to be away from work when they need it. The working party will not open up any more temporary jobs and thus make the labour market more unsafe and make it more difficult, for example, to obtain a mortgage. The majority of the population today will adopt a working environment law that goes in the wrong direction. People must be aware that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party are now clearly showing how they view the rights of workers. In the new government and civil servants' law that the family, culture and administrative fraction will deal with later this week, we see that the Bondevik government, with the Minister of Modernisation Meyer at the head, is attacking the protection against dismissal, will remove the waiting pay system and the negotiating right in the Staff Regulations, which means that the Council of State is violating the main agreement. This does not indicate modernisation. This suggests that the government wants to return to the 1930s, where workers were luaing in their hands. But the Minister for Modernization must not succeed in this. And he's, as I said, part of the government, where the council also sits high. The Labour Party believes that harmonisation of job protection rules with the Labour Environment Act is unfortunate without a full review of different pay and working conditions in the country in cooperation with employees’ organisations. It would not have been foolish if the government council present had also had a much closer cooperation with employees' organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e536	Increasing international competition and the reduction of borders are leading to faster and faster changes in the labour market. In order to assert itself in competition, Norwegian companies also need to rethink and work in new ways. For this reason, there is a need for legislation that facilitates even greater efforts to find solutions at individual workplaces, solutions that can underpin the need for flexibility for businesses and for employees. Let me focus on the proposals for temporary employment. It's a big point that temporary employment makes businesses more likely to hire people. In particular, when the economy is on its way up, it will be easier for people without work experience to escape. With the Government's proposals, more people will be able to try their way into work. Current legislation means that employers do not include temporary employees in situations where this would be desirable. Strict requirements make employers cautious and do not employ them in doubt. Instead, permanent employees will be able to face an increased burden of overtime and labour pressure. The government's proposals will provide clearer and more transparent legislation than the current one, while making it easier for businesses to carry out specific, time-limited tasks. This is of particular importance for smaller businesses, and that's who we have most of. Permanent employment is always preferable to temporary employment. This will also be the general rule in Norwegian working life in the future. However, temporary employment would be better than unemployment. A greater possibility of temporary employment will make it easier for workers without a job and without work experience to enter the labour market. Today, the threshold for entering is too high. Temporary employment will lower the threshold, not least providing a good opportunity for young people, disabled people and immigrants to enter the labour market. For most, temporary employment is a long way to go in preference to unemployment. It surprises me that the left-hand side does not see this. Experience from both Norway and other countries shows that temporary employment facilitates the entry into the labour market of new arrivals and groups with weak links to the labour market. A study carried out by Fafo in 2002 shows that about two thirds of temporary staff were employed after two years. Fafos figures for Norway are supported by OECD studies in other European countries. A very restrictive approach to temporary employment could lead to higher unemployment among vulnerable groups and a greater distinction between those who have a job and those who do not. All proposals for amendments create noise. When the Government with this proposition submits proposals for, inter alia, extending access to temporary employment is a high level of noise no surprise, nor does it indicate a rematch. However, there is more than one cross of thought when the left side of Norwegian policy, together with the employee organisations, is as hard on temporary employment as they do. Country it is natural to compare us with, like Sweden, Finland and Denmark, all have more liberal access to temporary employment. It is tempting to ask whether the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV believe that our Nordic neighbours have such a brutal working life. It is paradoxical that the left is concerned with limiting the use of overtime, while the batches are dogmatic opponents of temporary employment. A study conducted by the NHO shows that 43 pst. by the work the companies want to do by temporary staff is currently being carried out using overtime. The NHO study further shows that close to 75 pst. by the asked managers, it is considered that opening up temporary employment would lead to more staff. In other words, there's a big difference in reality. On the left hand side, I would like to say that companies are not to replace permanent employees with temporary workers. Fixed jobs will not be replaced by temporary ones, but more people will have room for work. Several shall be given the opportunity to demonstrate their competence and gain experience. Several will have the opportunity to improve their labour market opportunities. The thresholds entered into the labour market shall be lowered. The sociologists black paint and complain about a brutal working life. But ‘the brutal working life’ is a myth to be buried because ‘the brutal working life’ does not exist. There is an attempt on the left to recreate the class contradictions of earlier times. In a globalised world – in 2005 – we do not get far with such old-fashioned attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e560	I thought it was a cross-political agreement and a cross-political goal to get as much work as possible in this country. But the treatment of this law and what has been said by the left-hand side of Norwegian politics from this pulpit today has unfortunately only confirmed that that is not the case. That's a little bit of a shame. Anyone who still believes that, through comprehensive collective bargaining agreements and comprehensive labour-environment laws, as well as providing work for most people, is wrong – at least if one argues that there is still to be a balance between public sector employees and private sector employees. There is no evidence or, for that matter, examples that a comprehensive collective bargaining agreement and an overall labour-environment law – in combination or individually – has been able to reduce unemployment. The few examples of a reduction in unemployment in the period following the significant extension of the Working Environment Act have a direct and indisputable link with positive macroeconomic changes. A more comprehensive labour-environment law that increasingly includes social rights cannot therefore be the answer to our challenge of getting more people to work. What creates more jobs is flexibility. After reading the proposal for new labour law, and after listening to the debate, a question may arise as to whether there is at all such a thing as flexibility in the law and in the view of the other parties. Why is it that a Norwegian worker – who according to the new head of the Workers' Party, Gerd Liv Valla, is well qualified, effective and generally adaptable – cannot agree with his employer about his own working hours, his own duties and his own salary? In the absence of good answers, Valla hides behind the old enemy image of how the cynical and faceless private business craves to exploit the defenseless worker. We've come to 2005. Norwegian workers do not accept in any way to be exploited as a picture is drawn here. It should be a cross-section of the left-hand side of Norwegian policy and of Gerd Liv Valla that the vast majority of all employees in private enterprises work in small and medium-sized enterprises, and that these enterprises are largely run by hard-working people and entrepreneurs. These are people who have created jobs, who work hard, and who in most cases know their colleagues very well. The United Kingdom reformed labour policy through tough settlement with trade unions and through a series of labour laws. It was tough, and it was uncompromising. Thatcher had a clear aim, and she won forward. What Thatcher got into was to deregulate a rigid and less flexible labour law. To a greater extent, she allowed employees and businesses to decide which conditions were to be applied locally, resulting in more flexibility, both for the employee and for the employer. It was a long general strike. The trade unions, the social democrats and the socialists proclaimed that this would really mean the end of the welfare of the British worker. The same is true in Norway today as regards the left-hand side and the change in the Working Environment Act. Nothing happened in the rest of Europe. They were watching. They admired. They were afraid. But they didn't trade. In retrospect, one can see that after the settlement of the trade unions and the left-hand side of English policy, the United Kingdom has been, and is still, well characterised by good economic progress and low unemployment, compared to the rest of Europe. This has been seen by social democrats in the United Kingdom – surprisingly. That's the only reason they're now in doubt about continuing that thatcher's victory. Jack Straw and Tony Blair have repeatedly stressed that the flexible labour laws for which thatcher was passed are the main cause of the low unemployment and the strong economic growth experienced by the United Kingdom. The most impressive thing, says Blair, is that this has not been at the expense of the wealth of the individual worker, who in the same period has not been able to stand back on his colleagues in Germany and in France. This should perhaps also exacerbate the social democrats and the Labour Party in Norway. If they want most people to get a job, Norway also needs to adapt its legislation to the rules against which businesses compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e577	We have many unsolved tasks in Norwegian society. Nevertheless, there are about 100,000 unemployed in Norway today. There's a danger that the time off will snap to a high level. So we need a new majority, and we need a new government that does more to create a working life with space for everyone. We need an active enterprise policy for the whole country, with support for establishment, increased research, active efforts to reintroduce the employer's fee and contribution to the development of high-speed telecommunications networks where the market is not working. We need offensive policies to combat unemployment. The government has been too passive and has taken action too late. Although the unemployment rate is still high, the Government is adding up to too few areas for action. We need more space for action. We need to introduce a youth guarantee to all under 25 years of age, and we need an extra effort towards the long-term unemployed. We must have a policy for a more inclusive working life. That is why we need to strengthen cooperation with the social partners. We must have an active senior policy. We need to put in place a system of disability benefits as wage subsidies in all counties, set up action places to integrate people who otherwise fall outside the ordinary working life, and we need to strengthen vocational training. And last but not least: we need a policy to ensure the protection of workers' rights, both by maintaining the rights of workers in the sick pay system, by correcting the cuts in the day-to-day pay system, by legislating that part-time employees will be given priority over full-time jobs in the event of new employment and by ensuring job protection. Not least, we need a policy that says no to the increased use of temporary employment. I record that the Government's proposal to increase the use of temporary employment will lead to a more brutal working life in Norway. With the opening up of temporary employment, we can have a development in the working life where enterprises reduce the number of permanent employees to a minimum and meet the need beyond that with temporary employees. It will lead to a completely different working life. In Norway, about 90 pst. by permanent staff. This does not mean that they cannot be cancelled, but the employer must have a valid reason to do so. So what is the situation of a temporary employee? Yes, if you are afraid of not being able to extend your employment, you are obviously weaker than the employer. It's easier to be exploited, but it has to be hand-held. There will be less provision of training for permanent staff. It becomes more difficult to earn a basis for sick pay, maternity leave and daily allowances, and, of course, you get less economic security. You don't know what you want to earn when your employment goes out. You don't get a loan because you don't have a safe income, and then, of course, it's harder to buy a dwelling and get settled. I hear two important arguments in the debate. I hear the claim that increased use of temporary employment should make it much easier for young people and others who have labour market problems to get in. But there is no evidence of such a claim. Many studies have been carried out on the impact of increased use of temporary employment on the labour market, but they do not confirm that there is any link between increased use of temporary employment and the fact that entry into the labour market should be facilitated – rather on the contrary. With the increased use of temporary employment, it will be easier to push people out of the labour market in situations where there is a pressing need for employment on the labour market. The second claim I hear is that the government and the government spokespersons – the last time the representative Holmberg – say that this is just a small adjustment, this is not going to make any big difference to the Norwegian labour market. However, increasing the use of temporary workers could lead to a completely different behaviour on the part of enterprises, a behaviour in which the number of permanent employees is reduced to a minimum, keeping it at the level necessary to keep the activity going, and then taking the variation in the use of temporary workers. In that case, it will lead to a dramatic work life other than what we have today. I'm not saying Norway and Spain are comparable. But Spain had 90 pst. permanent employees, they too. Today, one third of employees in Spain are temporarily added. The Workers' Party makes this quite clear, together with the SV and the Centre Party: Since the Advance Party and the Government Parties are today ready to implement such changes in the Labour Environment Act, it is clear that if the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are given a majority, we will ensure that that decision is taken as soon as possible after the autumn elections. This is why a new majority and a new government are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e598	In today's debate, speakers from the Red Government option have strongly warned against more temporary additions. They have thrown out a lot of undocumented claims that might be called cheap and simple rhetoric in the simplest way. They have even given promises that they will reverse a change in the Work Environment Act if they are given the chance to do so after the fall option. In my opinion, this shows three batches which have chosen to be placed on the side of the established. There are three parties that have chosen to sit on the side of their powerful sponsors instead of changing the course to give new jobseekers a chance. So a selects the least resistance path. What are the risks we face by opening up to more temporary additions? First of all, we risk making it easier for new businesses to benefit from more additions. With today's tight rules, however, overtime becomes the posted option. This option could have been a temporary addition and valuable work experience for new employees. In particular, in a start-up phase with an uncertain future, new businesses may reduce the risk by adding more opportunities for temporary inclusion. In other words, there is a risk that the work will be divided into several parts. It's a thought like, for example, It has been a matter of when the party talks about the six-hour winnings. However, the better division of labour which can provide a little more at the moment, the clear advantage, contrary to the SV's proposal, is that at the same time companies are safeguarded and thus well-being. This may also lead to more people having the chance to be found in the labour market. There is a broad agreement here, both in the hall, in the workplace and in society, that permanent addition should be the normal. But that's one thing, whether we like it or not, that the labour market is actually a market. It is a choice at the employer's hand to add or leave to add. In meeting potential employees, the employer will consider: How sure am I that this applicant has the qualifications I need? And, are there other alternatives than adding? The labour market has a clear advantage here in its situation. They have experience. Therefore, temporary additions may reduce the competitive disadvantages of those with least experience. And we all know who it is: it's young, newly educated jobseekers, long-term unemployed and disabled people, or others with low levels of employment. We should be able to live with this risk, live well with it. We've all heard the warnings. Temporary addition is insecure. This may result in a non-residential loan. This may also lead to an inability to establish yourself with a family. But if the option of temporary addition had been fixed addition, I would have agreed. But the option is actually to get unemployed. And unemployment is uncertain, it's more uncertain than temporary addition. Unemployment is negative for those who want to establish themselves with family, home and mortgage, and it's guaranteed to be more negative than a period in the vicariate or engagement. Among young people, unemployment is higher than elsewhere in the population. It should then be possible to try out an opening with a slightly more temporary addition as a means of reducing the threshold into the labour market with a fixed purpose. Can we prove that the effects of the bill are going to be like this? No, but there's every reason to believe it. Even with today's tight legislation, many people have come into contact with the labour market by getting a vicariate or commitment first and then regular work. This way is much more common than to go many years on different engagements without going on to fixed additions. That shows the statistics. What options do the three games have on the left-hand side? Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen said in his speech that they should have a youth guarantee. But when one approaches each attempt at a more flexible labour market, we know that such a guarantee will not create a single new job for young people. It's very likely that the effect is actually going to be the opposite. In order to compensate for the negative effects of resistance to change, a number of action areas need to be established for young people. Labour market measures are important if there is a lack of professional qualifications that is an obstacle to getting a job. But that's not the challenge for young people today. That is the lack of practice. And that's exactly what temporary addition to fixed frames can give them. There is therefore no reason to call for that guarantee. But if it were to show that there would be no result, that the employment would be the same, there is still a possibility to choose; one can choose to support the weakest group. And that's what the Christian People's Party has done. We choose to support young people and their disabled people's right to enter the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e619	I noticed the representative Osmundnes' interesting description of cheap and simple rhetoric from the red-green. Then he boldly entered perhaps the most reasonable rhetoric, the sponsorship rhetoric, which has been repeated several times from the pulpit today. I would like to encourage the government parties, when considering such a serious piece of legislation, to look precisely at those who were supposed to be behind these sponsors that the government parties are afraid of, that is, the trade movement, and on what kind of argument is used in relation to this. Could it be that so many thousands of people have joined the Norwegian trade union movement, today so clearly say that, among other things. the question of temporary employment is something you don't want to go into? Could there actually be something in it? Is there anything more than cheap sponsor rhetoric coming from the trade movement? In my opinion: clearly yes. As regards the question of temporary employment, I believe that the Government does not make any careful opening in relation to this. You cross a very important principleal boundary, which I will be allowed to come back to. We spend a lot of time at work, we who are lucky to have one. Of our waking time, we may spend the most important and dominant part of it at work. It is obvious that much of our quality of life is linked to being good at work, having it safe and predictable, and that working life is not raw and brutal. It is obvious that the person who thrives on the job provides better. And the one who provides better and more, also thrives. Therefore, it is saddened that the Government's proposal today contributes not only to the brutalisation of working life, but it also makes it more uncertain, especially for those groups that need security, whether it is an immigrant, a youth or a disabled person. In this way, the legislative proposal, in particular the regulation on temporary employment, is not a step in the right direction. There are in particular two aspects that I think there is a basis for pointing out. First, and there have been several repetitions in the debate: the entire working life now bears the mark of moving towards a greater degree of individualisation. The law provides for several individual adaptations. Overtime, working time and a number of other rules have been mentioned, which makes employees and perhaps those who are weakest as workers, those who are in temporary employment feel particularly stressed. And with the industrial structure we have in Norway, where most employers have very few employees, and where everyone becomes reasonably visible, fortunately, such individual adaptation can become heavier to carry, especially for those in temporary employment. If we combine this with opening up for more temporary employment, this is the basis for looking at what temporary employment really is. Let's call that what it is. There is reduced job protection. No specific process or content is required at the end of a work relationship. Why? Are we not living in a time when we should create more security and predictability, just for the weakest? In addition, the government's proposal crosses a clear, principled limit in relation to what was past practice, a principled limit that we have managed to maintain in Norway. Provision is made for access to temporary employment without the existence of any underlying — statutory — reason for temporary employment, e.g. Vicariat, seasonal work or lack of competence to enter the position in question. Just that you're opening up to it in general, there's no careful opening. The question then is, can we have a situation in which many employers actually use that scheme as a general rule when recruiting young people, new nationals and people with disabilities, if any? Therefore, instead of motivating employers, we should really encourage employers to hire people who need permanent work, to provide them with a permanent job, and to end employment in ways that have been outlined by old Norwegian labour law – incentivise employers to apply precisely the procedural rules that apply, so that the uncertainty does not increase employees at all. It's sad that the government and the majority today seem to be going in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e638	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e641	I still have, as probably many others, good contact with many of my former colleagues – in the industrial environment in Oppland. What is striking there is the following: many handsome, proud workers have been retired early, many have been dissatisfied, many have received final packages, many have had a different end to their professional career than they had imagined. The pressure on the individual employee, the pressure to increase the return on capital and the pressure on adaptability and more and more overtime jobs provide a more reflective working life. It gives several worn-out workers. Without working hands, there will be no results in the companies, nor any profit for the owners. Good business managers, of whom there are too few, get good results, satisfied employees, lower sick leave and actually better earnings. My claim is that with better corporate managers, who are happy in people, and long-term owners, we had a much healthier working life. The desire of the bourgeois parties for greater use of temporary employment is not good, but old-fashioned right-wing policy. None of those who suggest this, who might think of being temporarily employed — out and in of the labour market, without knowing whether you have enough income next month to cover your house, insurance, food, etc. –no one here, and we're not going to accept it either. We're not going to accept that others are going to get what we don't want. In the United States, temporary employment is on a large scale. That's why there's so many poor people there too, more and more of them getting poor. From demanding greater use of temporary employment, the next requirement for citizens will be greater use of minimum wages, as they do in the United States. We still have a great need for a powerful trade movement, and then I think not only about LO, but also about the others that represent thousands of workers – YS, etc. An inclusive working life must not only be an slogan, it must also have human content. There is no doubt that the world’s largest factory floors are China, India and Pakistan. It's a big challenge, and it'll be an even bigger challenge for us in the next few years, that so to speak, everything can be produced cheaper elsewhere in the world. However, it is totally reprehensible, I think, when the company managers and owners meet modest pay demands and demand for a better working environment with: do not require anything, otherwise I will move out the entire production. Legislative proposals can never regulate the insensibility and attitudes of workers who belong in ancient times. But the more important it is to create a new work environment law that has a holistic view of human beings, when individual paragraphs of the law are to be created. With the proposals of the bourgeois parties and the lack of handshake of the Advance Party to the people most – yes, I hope more and more realize that this is being adopted now, we need to take a rematch on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e656	The council said he had given me answers in the loop. But my question was why the government is not interested in putting down a wide-ranging selection to go through some of the challenges associated with the harmonisation of service and work environment laws. That's what we in the Labour Party call professional-political cooperation, and that's what I didn't get answers to. I registered during the post of the representative Hogsnes today that it was a continuous thread that the most important thing was the competitive factor for Norwegian companies. Yes, he must mean it, but then I didn't think he should call it a work environment law, a pure protection law, then he must call it what it really is – a work law. He goes on to say that when it comes to the question of temporary addition, a cautious one opens up. Yes, one would have to interpret it this way, but I certainly don't interpret it this way, because as it is today, one must have a good reason to temporarily assign people – now the bill opens up so that one can implement it as a general rule, without a foundation. Will there be an entry port to the labour market, or will such a liberalisation act as a sorting? Do we get an A and B team in our working life? Yeah, I actually believe that. There is also no reason to argue that easier access to temporary employment will lead to increased employment and lower unemployment, as many claim, and as several speakers from the Government Party have claimed in today's debate. There may be more use and waste in the Norwegian labour market. At least it will be easier for businesses to get rid of labour in times of recession, and it is actually a willful policy on the part of the majority. Step Skei Grande from the Left was up here and claimed that the red-green government option would not be included in a future-oriented work environment law. That's wrong. The left and the government parties weaken their employees' labour rights, weaken their employees' protection and job protection, and detract from research institutions and professional expertise in health, the environment and safety. Is this right for the future? Yes, then I thought the Left should be more concrete and tell the Norwegian people what is really the future of what is going to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e669	I record that the representatives of the government parties and the Progress Party are very concerned about the economic side of this with the competitiveness. Then I just want to say that the World Economic Forum, which is not exactly a subdivision of neither SV nor LO, has said that Norway has one of the world's most efficient economies, and that despite having a very good working environment law and good pay and working conditions – yes, maybe just because we have it, because the workforce and the human resource are the most important input. So I think the government and government parties should think a little bit about that. But there's a red thread going through the government's policy; you want bigger differences between people. What we know is that there are many more people who have health problems. And what happens when more people get health problems? Yes, there are many problems in the labour market. Then it will be very difficult to meet demands for e.g. greater flexibility and more overtime, without even increasing the number of those exposed. I think it's a little late when the representatives of both the Government and the Advance Party take the disabled to income for their eyesight. In fact, people with disabilities disagree that opening up to more temporary employment is a good thing and will provide work for more people. I would therefore like to draw attention to a letter of response I received from the Council of State Erna Solberg yesterday. I had asked questions about inclusive working life and how it really goes about intermediate objectives 2 and 3. The answer is discouraging. It is ‘negative development’. Governments write: «The flow rates indicate that an increasing proportion of persons remain within the social security schemes while reducing the proportion from social security benefits to jobs.» And on the other hand, ‘There is currently little evidence that the IA Agreement has contributed to the entry into working life of more disabled people. Nor is there anything to suggest that the agreement has helped to raise the expected retirement age.» So: Even today it is difficult. And then the Government and the majority believe that by demanding that you work even more overtime – and have even more unsafe working conditions – you should do this better! So to the structure of the work environment law, and whether to have more individual opportunities for negotiation or not: it's SV against. The reason for this is that we have to ask ourselves the question: What are our interests? For there are conflict situations between employees and employers, and there are, in fact, also conflict situations between different interests of employees, between young and strong, and between those who have health problems. A framework regulation serves the strongest, but clear, detailed, controlled and regulated limits will serve the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e690	I have listened with interest to Eirin Faldet, who said that the ‘grossification of work’ will continue, and that the exclusion will continue. And I've listened with interest to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who thinks we're now getting a'more rawer working life'. Eirin Faldet stressed that the overtime pressure should not increase. This sounds hollow. The Labour Party is fully dogmatic in its resistance to temporary employment. But it is better for permanent workers to have to work a lot of overtime than for vulnerable groups to have a better chance of entering the labour market! This is at best double communication. Schjött-Pedersen says that there is a risk that unemployment will become ‘high level’. And it says a representative who was Minister of Finance when the interest rate was record high, at 7-8 pst. I deeply disagree with the fact that several areas of action are the whole and full truth and the solution to all unemployment. It is a much better tool to pursue sound economic policies. Now we have lower interest rates, better dollar rates, tax reliefs, which have given business better framework conditions. We see that the government's policy has worked. We've gone from leave to less leave. Unemployment is falling, business is more optimistic, and employment is increasing. The working party is opposed to temporary employment. Then they think more of those who are in the workplace than of those who are outside knocking on the door. That ladder has pulled up the Working Party. Temporary employment is not uprooted in Norway. Very many employees have experience of temporary employment in very many years. Over 25 years as a teacher and a school employee, temporary employment for me has been quite natural. No one's asked questions about it. I don't think anyone has been hurting their soul by going temporarily to work for some time before they got a permanent job. I just want to end by saying that, after this debate, I am still amazed that you have to look so black on life. Nor is it possible to look at the changes we are making in the Working Environment Act as an improvement, an update and an opportunity both for all those entering the labour market and for those already in the labour market!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e707	As the case rapporteur for the freedom of expression communication and the new section 100 of the Basic Law last year, I had a lot of contact with issues relating to the freedom of expression and the protection of the so-called alerts, or "whistle blowers". At that time, it was a broad cross-political majority to state through the constitutional process that employees needed greater legal protection of their freedom of expression. I was happy about that. I am also pleased that both the Government's proposal for the law we are discussing and the Committee's consideration have expressed a strong political desire to follow that consensus in order to strengthen the protection of the freedom of expression of employees. Here, there is a clear need to put in place clearer and more precise legislation on how this right should be enshrined in Norwegian law. The Constitutional Court has provided a good basis. Today’s treatment of the new law on the working environment will provide an even better basis, but not in any way complete treatment in this area. Issues related to employee freedom of expression in general, and the protection of the so-called 'whistle blowers' in particular, are an important topic, but at the same time a very difficult theme to get a very precise and good regulation of the law. With regard to the Government's proposal, which would guarantee employees the right to notify of critical matters in a loyal manner, it is obviously possible to raise some questions relating to: What is a loyal way? And how is that to be defined? I see that quite clearly. At the same time, I think it is important that a legislative approach comes up with formulations that do not raise new problems that you may not have thought thoroughly enough through. I also do not regard the wording of the committee majority as an adequate wording that should mark the end of this process. Here, too, the Committee points out – I am pleased to see – that the Government is working on a legislative work and is aiming to get back to the Stortinget with formulations that can take full account of all the concerns, and that is good. What is happening today is necessary, but not nearly sufficient, to ensure that these conditions are properly protected by law. In the Committee's position, it points out that the Swedish system of 'communication protection' is not in any way a sound regulation or model for us, because it does not take into account opinions relating to the private sector at all, but only those relating to the public sector. And that's a clear weakness.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e726	There has been a great focus in the media on the question of equalizing three-part turns and continuous shifts. During the hearing process, there was a requirement to equate three-part turns with continuous shifts in relation to working time. The working party strongly sympathises with that requirement, not least in a gender perspective. It is a legitimate requirement that working time arrangements that are comparable to the distribution of working time at an unfavourable time, i.e. late evening, night, Sunday and holy day, and frequent changes in working time, should have the same framework for normal working time, regardless of whether the work is organised as shiftwork or as tour work. As I said, the working party is not opposed to such a requirement. It is wrong, as the representative Holmås from SV concluded, that the Labour Party has not put strong leadership in this matter. This is largely about equality between men and women, as I call it. However, there are many questions that arise before one can implement such a requirement – and I do not understand that SV is very busy, unfortunately. It is almost impossible to get an overview of the economic and personnel implications of implementing such a reform. I also record that there is different interpretation of what is comparable. It would be a great strength for a good result that the social partners sit down to discuss these issues thoroughly, and a number of governments ask the parties to take such an initiative. But then I would also like to emphasize that if a person does not succeed in achieving a good solution in the discussions between the parties, the Storting will consider resuming this matter. When it comes to alerts: every party believes that there is a great need to establish new laws on alerts that detect corruption and abuse of public funds. As I was in the past, it is positive that the Government is now making suggestions to add protection against retaliation when alerting critical matters in the enterprise. The Committee also notes that it is important that workers have a right to alert. However, many challenging questions arise related to this legislative formulation. The government's proposals and the committee's recommendations do not all respond, but are meant to be an important step on the road. There is no doubt that there is a need for better knowledge and thorough discussion of these issues before finally establishing new rules in this area. I'm glad the Government is already working on that. This work will be completed by the end of 2005–2006 and will allow the Storting to take a final position on this issue in the spring of 2006. As I said, our proposal is not patent, but I believe that the promises will not be implemented until we are presented with the recommendations and conclusions of the selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e743	The debate has been marked by relatively strong words and characteristics. I think we could save each other for that in many ways. But leave it. What is a cross of thought, however, is that if it was not the case that there was no need to modernise this law, why was the Labour Law Committee set up by the government of Stoltenberg? I also think there is a cross of thought when the father of the Working Environment Act, Thorbjørn Berntsen, says that there are no heavy reasons to mobilize the great war against the government's legislative proposals. If this is the case, it is strange that the same bill leads to a rougher working life, a brutalization, wrong direction, more support, more insecurity, and you feel the need to bring out scares from countries that have a completely different working life than the Norwegian one. There is no match between part of the use of words in this debate and that which is the reality of the matter we are dealing with. Two thirds of the law that Odelstinget adopts here today is unanimous. Then there is a dispute about some important points, and I think that's okay. However, it is widely underlined in the debate that the legislative proposal extends and reinforces the rights of employees – the right to permanent employment, the right to full-time jobs, restrictions on long-term working weeks, etc. Then I would just like to say briefly to the representative, Opbebøen Hansen, about this discussion on the Civil Service Act: I understand that the work environment bill is probably not enough for shooting, and that it is therefore necessary to resort to another proposal that is not currently under consideration. But it has been a legal committee, the Labour Law Committee, which has carefully assessed the Civil Service Act. The aspects of the Government’s proposals that have not been assessed in the Labour Law Committee have also been the subject of an explicit consultation of the parties. So let go that there is a disagreement about the matter, but I will claim that the process has been justifiable. In addition, I have noticed the representative Upbeøen Hansen's signal on the issue of the entry into force of the alert determination in relation to the process that the Government has initiated, and we will take it with us in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e758	Let me first join the Council of State's words about the words and concepts used in the debate. I want to go so far as to say that the words and terms used by the left-hand side of the hall today are actually positive in the sense that they reveal themselves. When a person tries to draw a picture that there are no good business leaders in Norway, as has been said by representatives from the left, and that Norwegian business leaders are cynical and brutal, it's kind of okay, I think, to end the debate now, because then they have a completely different agenda than strengthening employees' rights. I also registered that the representative Storberget wanted to motivate, but perhaps not to stimulate, Norwegian business managers and Norwegian business. For me, it's stimulating and motivating one thing. It might be interesting to ask Storberget what the Labour Party is doing in relation to this law that stimulates or motivates Norwegian employers in some way. I would also like to ask the Storberget question: What is it in the Workers' Party that stimulates and motivates Norwegian employers to facilitate the creation of more jobs and growth? The working party is going in the opposite direction. They don't create motivation or stimulation at all. They are demotivating the Norwegian business as a whole. My point is, I've been employed for 22 years before I came to the Stortinget. I have also been trusted, and I have never experienced that Norwegian workers have in any way been unused as was said here today. Norwegian workers have a position compared to the rest of the world that is unique, by having influence, participation and dialogue with their employers – which is great. In fact, I also believe that the majority of Norwegian workers believe that the changes made here in the Working Environment Act are in place. It's actually also that there are people who want to work temporarily and want to have flexibility, both in terms of outcomes and in terms of family relationships. We should also take great account of them. I would like to conclude by commenting briefly to the Council of State, which, in reply to my colleague, Mr Andersen, earlier today thought that the Progress Party was driving a hole, or that it was hollow, in relation to the simplification we want. I think the Council of State should spend a little bit more energy getting involved in what's simplification, and what's not simplification. Clearly, the government wants more regulation, less simplification, while the Progress Party wants this in law and a reduction in the number of regulations, which is a clear simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e769	The representative Hogsnes was more concerned with the competitive situation than with the working environment, said the representative Oppebøen Hansen in an earlier article. This gives me a basis for clarifying the following: I therefore see no conflict between the objective of a well-regulated working environment on the one hand and the demand for profitable jobs and a dynamic labour market on the other. A good working environment is one of several important prerequisites for a healthy and long-term value creation. At the same time, it has been a goal to design the individual points in the law so that we do not impose unnecessary burdens on businesses. We will promote the good working environment, not weaken the foundations of the workplace. So we don't have to fool ourselves and others into thinking that all this is just about competitive public jobs. We are living with a very demanding international market, where changes are getting faster and faster, including for public enterprises. It requires great flexibility and willingness to change, but it also imposes even greater requirements for developing a well-regulated working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e774	In the debate about who it is that is revealing itself here, I believe that Per Sandberg probably made the strongest contribution this morning in his overwhelming praise of Thatcher-England's targeted fight against trade union movement and to flexibilizing the entire English working life. Yes, look at England, then, look at the United Kingdom and look at the United States! There is a emergence of a large sub-class of people who need to work more than full-time in order to be able to support themselves. It's an emergence of a society with so many differences that we've never seen the husband in Norway. So this is an ideal for one of the leading figures in the Advance Party. Well, they about it. The question from Hans Kristian Hogsnes is whether there is really a difference between the purchasers and the labour salesmen, who are ordinary workers. Is that a contradiction? Yeah, it's just looking at the law that's put forward, that. If there had been no contradiction, there would have been no need for a law. If it had been the case that individual companies always made decisions that were consistent with the interests of society and the interests of individual workers, there would have been no problem. But we see that this is a problem. We see that without a good work environment law, you are at risk of being exposed to exclusion, which we have today, which means that society needs to take care of a greater proportion of the workers through schemes such as rehabilitation, disability benefits, unemployment benefits, etc. It is therefore about ensuring the safety of individual workers and ensuring that employers are disciplined, so that the interests of society are best taken care of. It is in the interests of society that most possible people are well off, and that people are able to stand in the labour market until retirement. It's this simple, simple point that I see that some parts on the right-hand side don't get it. To the question of temporary labour – that is, not to go into the unprofessional thing that someone was talking about, and the cheap rhetoric, that what we know for sure is that the more flexible arrangements we have in relation to temporary labour, the more temporary labour is actually used in the labour market. The second thing we know for sure – it showed that a new EU survey that came under the treatment of the Employment Act Committee – was that people in the EU who worked temporarily, on average, earned 10 pst. less than people who worked in the same positions. So that means that the government is now adding up to a policy where people are going to work more temporarily. They accept a more temporary and less paid working life. If it's not a development in the wrong direction, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e783	The President would point out that the term ‘south’ is not an appropriate parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e786	In fact, the Labour Party considers that consideration for competition and profit is ahead of human interests in the labour market. Today’s policies are continuing to break down the labour market, and many are exploding. The working party wants a working life where there is room for everyone. The working party does not want to open up more temporary jobs and thus make working life more unsafe and more difficult to get a mortgage, as I said in my post. This fell the representative Kari Lise Holmberg heavily for the chest, and she made me a visit in her post. I do not know when the representative Holmberg worked very temporarily at the school. But as the situation is now, we have to be aware of one thing: being young and going into the housing market requires that a person has some security to provide when he comes to the bank and has to apply for a loan, and if one is a temporary employee, one will not get a mortgage. We also know that there will be fewer and fewer employees in the public sector. This government has also contributed to this. I wish we had room for more permanent employees in school. I am not so concerned with damage to the soul, etc., but I believe that we must be able to agree on one thing, and that is that safe jobs mean fixed employment. That's what we have to assume. That's why we're very opposed to weakening employees' rights. Temporary employment impairs the rights of employees, not least in terms of involvement in the organisation of work. When you're temporarily employed, you don't know what tomorrow has to do, and that's the Workers' Party against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e793	The proportion of workers with disabilities in the labour force is falling. It's the government's own information that the municipal committee received this weekend. So the government says that when the possibility of temporarily hiring is easier than today, it will make more of these get a job. Well, very many of those who are disabled today need work organization to be able to do their job. It costs a lot of money. If an employee is employed, the organisation requirements for the enterprise are large, as stated in the Working Environment Act. But if you are not an employee, what is the probability that an employer will temporarily organise a job for someone who is disabled or who has reduced health in some way? I find it totally illogical. I just think this is wrong. If we are to make working life more accessible to those who have health problems and those who are being outcast today, we must ensure that working life does not impose requirements like those who have poor health cannot meet. That's the way it's going to be with the law. I hear the minister moralizes a little over the tone of the debate here. It might be that if the effect of this law isn't what the left-hand side says, it might not be exactly like what the government and the right-hand side say either, that it's alpha and omega, so that the Norwegian business community won't go all the way down. It actually sounds like this. It is true today that the Norwegian economy is very efficient and works very well. The proportion of people working in Norway is very high. This means that if we are going to get even more people to work, we have to accept that more people are ill, and we have to accept that working life is organized more for those who have health problems. Finally, turn and shift work. The first thing I did when I came into the Storting eight years ago was to present a Document No. 8-proposals for equalising rotational and shiftwork. This is a matter that has a long history, and it should therefore not be necessary to spend much time on it, especially after the nurses' union and the trade union have submitted a proposal that significantly limits what is to be compared. What makes us worry when neither the Labour Party has found reason to support that proposal, is not that we do not hear them say they are for this, but that they say that if the sample to be reduced does not come up with any proposal, you should not take it up in the Storting, but you should consider taking it up in the Storing. There is no certainty that this matter will find a solution with the majority we have today. This case needs a political solution, and we could have gotten through it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e802	First, turn and shift work. There was the Council of State that he really wanted a greater equality between the turn and shift work than is the case today. Now this is a matter that the Bondevik I-government worked on. In the Bondevik II administration, little has happened in this field. Then my question is: is it that the Council of State actually rejects this kind of equality, i.e. between those working in the care and health sectors, and those who have shiftwork, or is it actually a omission from the Bondevik II government's side that they have not already followed up on this, and that he is very pleased with the dialogue that he is now under obligation to follow up? So to the theme no. 2, disabled people and their access to work today. The disabled people's organisations have themselves submitted the Labour Force Survey from 1 March this year, which shows that among the disabled and chronically ill, there are 11 pst. temporarily added. Among the other employees, the number is 12 pst. per 1 % March 1st. They're asking the Storting to reject the government's proposal precisely because they think it's going to be more motivating for organization and customization in fixed settings than when these are only temporary. Does that mean that the Council of State now rejects the disabled person's own argument? So to the exchange of words that has gone on here, and to the use of words that we've had. It's so that many of us have experience as trustees, but we don't talk so much about it right now. But it also tells us that those of us who have been trusted know what it means with an inclusive hold. We know what it means that people have the opportunity to say something from here, and we know what that means by a neat and clear code. Then it is presented here as if the majority in the committee are countering small and medium-sized enterprises, because we do not support the government's proposal when it comes to temporary additions and overtime. Let me make it quite clear from the Center Party's side: I believe that what matters most to these types of enterprises is what they themselves are asking for, and it's an offensive business policy with better infrastructure, with simplified legislation, greater ability to access capital, so that we can jointly strengthen the areas where Norway is already good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e815	The reason given by the representative Sandberg, and as far as the extension of what Meltveit Kleppa now says about the motivation for employers to create jobs in Norway, I think it was necessary to note that the shooting should also come from the representatives of the Progress Party, that the Workers' Party does not do its job. It can't be more backwards, because the Progress Party has largely based all the motivation for creating new jobs exclusively in the market and points to it as the only gratifying thing. Then we're facing another block in this house that wants a motivation also picked up in the market, but to the highest degree in the policy, both in relation to the question of action areas, the question of phase-in in the labour market, both from disease and disability situations, the question of having tools in the toolbox in the field of industrial policy, and measures to promote business start-ups. I must say that I do not think the Advance Party should be the first to say they were best at this. That's the one. The second was what I was really talking about, and that was the question of motivating the employer to continue to act decently towards employees when it comes to ending employment. There I believe that the government is making a big mistake with today's legislation and proposals for law, by creating a different motivation. In many ways, a new culture is introduced in relation to workers in terms of what is needed to end employment. It does not strengthen the rights of workers to put into service the tools that have been laid down in environmental legislation for a long time, namely that it must be a special process and that it must be a matter of substance. This does not mean that the courts devalue cancellations in Norwegian law. On the contrary, what employers say is largely based on what they say, and it is possible to end employment. But I think today's proposals help to weaken that very thinking in relation to the workers, and that is very serious. It creates a lot of uncertainty, an uncertainty that we do not need in Norwegian working life, and an uncertainty that, as I said in my main post, will help to reduce the effectiveness of the workers. The last element that Sandberg drew out was that there are several people who actually want to work temporarily. What kind of argument is that? When people get permanent employment today, it's not an obligation to work forever and ever. If people just want to work for one or two years, they're very welcome to it. If this is the case now, and especially among the voters or trustees of the Advance Party, that you do not have the opportunity to work temporarily and finish your employment, then it is quite different from legislation that is needed. Then an urgent and important information campaign is needed for those who walk around and think that they might be tied to their workplaces forever and ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e824	I see that we are going into the final phase, in the final, of the debate now. I think this debate has drawn up clear political lines in many ways. The fact that it has become such a theme of language of what has been said from this pulpit today does not surprise anyone. No, it's not surprising that it becomes such a language theme, when one records that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party find each other on a case-by-case basis in this important area. To Hogsnes: There is no conflict between having a profitable business and having good protection for employees. No, there's no inconsistency about it, and there's no contradiction either. But what's important here is what one places emphasis on of argumentation, and whether it focuses on the important, that one should have a protection law. There is another area that I would like to cover before we close the debate. In the legislative proposal, the Government proposes that workers in management positions should still not be covered by the working time rules of the labour law. At the same time, the Government proposes that employees in special independent positions should now be subject to the working time rules. The Labour Party wants the new Work Environment Act to be the best possible for most workers in this country. During the hearing, it was found that many workers are excluded from the rules on working time in the Working Environment Act. It may also appear that defining the scope of "leading" and "specially independent" options is practiced differently and randomly around the activities. This is what a number in the Committee would like to do. We want today's practice to be intensified. The Ministry informs the Committee in a letter that the proposal for a new §10-12 second paragraph does not imply a tightening of the current law, but is intended to make it clear that today's practice is not consistent with the intention of the law and must therefore be streamlined. This includes: Against this background, a number of members of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre ask the Government to make an appropriate assessment of the scope and use of the provisions on exceptions to the working time rules of the Working Environment Act. We have not set a deadline for this work today, but we naturally feel that the result of this work will be presented to the Stortinget during the spring 2007 session. It's a little surprising to me that the government party doesn't support this proposal, but I have a hope that the government will make a serious deal, with which everyone has started, in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e840	We didn't mean to have these rounds, but when Karin Andersen claims that the government party and right-hand side are naive when we think that temporary addition can increase the employment rate, I have to ask. For example, the representative Karin Andersen, and far the left, believes that a company owner can tore up and make arrangements for e.g. a disabled person before he/she knows if he/she will work? It's expensive to hire people. It requires social expenditure, wages, organisation at many levels and long-term strategic decisions. Obviously, it's easier if you have a year to evaluate whether it's viable. I am sorry to say so, but I have experienced this very closely myself. Enterprises are of course afraid of getting red numbers and not being able to answer their obligations. This is a reality in Norwegian business, and Norwegian business is out there, where people live and need jobs. SV here said that people are doing well and working until they're retired is important. Yeah, it's important, we're a few in it. But it is also important that jobs are created, and that people have work and pay. We're trying to combine this. We want to make sure that business owners dare to hire people, and do so that sole proprietorships become two-man enterprises and three-man enterprises become four-man enterprises. That's how we build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e849	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e852	I would like to have a longer discussion with Storberget about who has been the best in the class in creating business in Norway. But I'm really afraid that Storberget would have gotten a lot of self-interest if we had taken that debate, if you look at the last period. What made me take the floor was the matter of temporary employment. As I said in my previous post, many people want temporary employment. Here you can draw a picture from the left side that temporary employment is a sin. The point is that the worker himself has opportunities through temporary employment to jump from work to work, while it should not be flexible the other way. That's what's a little bit of a point here. If we had narrowed the debate today, we could ask Holmås and Storberget about the EU survey that showed that temporary employees get 10 pst. less than permanent employees. If we had had two choices here today, temporary employment or nothing, then it might be interesting to hear what the representatives Storberget and Holmås had said. I still think they had insisted that you should not have any things, you should have been passive through Norwegian social security schemes!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e859	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e862	I guess it's no secret that the right-hand side wants a bigger stretch in the pay team as well, and thinks it's a good one. The reason why I take the floor is that it is clear that the representative Apelthun Seele totally misunderstands my post. The point is that if many people with disabilities are to be hired today, the organisation must take place first and not after a year. It's not possible for a lot of people with disabilities today to wait a whole year. This will mean that when you open up for temporary employment, it is not the ones who will get a job. There will be someone who doesn't need any organization, who gets the job. This underlines the importance of the organisations of disabled people, that with such an opening as the one currently in place and with the requirements for the organisation of many of those outside the labour market today, it will close. For no one is going to such investments for half a year or a year, as the representative Apelthun Seele himself says.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e869	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e887	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e892	I would just like to have a brief account of the person who has been dealing with this matter. The government’s justification for promoting the proposition is changes in areas that the Government considers it natural that the day-to-day money law should take into account. In my view, the proposals also express the desire for a more effective labour market policy. It is linked to the technical nature of some proposals and will help to ensure a clear basis for existing practices in Aetate. There is a broad consensus among all parties about the majority of this setting. The only exception is the question addressed in Section 4-13, where the requirement to reduce working time is proposed to be calculated in relation to working time in a 14-day period. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, proposes here a new paragraph, that the reduction in working time be calculated on a one-week basis when this results in more favourable results for the member. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – and in this Chamber also with the support of the Left – oppose this proposal and stand on the Government's original proposal. The reason for this is that we believe that the purpose of the Ministry’s proposal for a change in calculation method is to ensure that persons who have actually had a reduction in working time of at least 50 p.p. are compensated for lost working time and income. It also implies that persons who do not fulfil the minimum statutory requirement of 50 pst. reduction of working time, including daily pay. The longer the period considered, the more correct the picture is given of the actual scope of the individual’s work. The Government Parties and the Advance Party will therefore support the projected method of calculation of working time reduction and vote against the proposal on §4-13 new fifth paragraph. Otherwise, there is broad agreement on all the proposals in the proposal, and I recommend, as the case-rapporteur, Mr Odelstinget, to follow that setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e907	It is true, as the case-speaker said in his statement, that these are proposals for minor changes with a view to a more efficient labour market policy and adaptation to current practices in Aetat. What I see as positive is that there's a good change in relation to the gender perspective. When I take the word now, it is to say a few words about §4-13 and the requirement to reduce working time, where the Government proposes a new method of calculation, in other words that one should calculate in relation to a 14-day period. It's the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party against it. The same batch indicates that we opposed the proposal for at least 50 pst. reduction in working time in order to qualify for daily allowance. This tightening and, besides several other tightenings, we were finally dealing with that question by Stortinget. The result of the tightening in 2002–03 was that many of those with the least receive even less. The government's proposal for a calculation over a 14-day period instead of which today a week, or seven days, means a 90-million curtailment. kr in the long term, according to the government's own figures. In other words, there is a proposal for a further tightening of the daily allowance. This is the Labour Party against. We want one to be able to use both seven days and 14 days as the basis for calculating the reduction in working time, and we think that one should use the best-performing method of calculation for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e916	SV also subscribes to the proposals in the proposition, except for §4-13. We have to look at it in the context of what's going on in this area. The government has tightened up with large sums in relation to day-to-day benefits. The government has also tightened up in a number of other areas in relation to people who are out of work, and people who are both out of work and in poor health. These cuts amount to approx. 7 billion kroner, while the amounts of the poverty package presented by the Government are about $3 billion in the same period. And here's a new proposal that's going to help tighten up $90 million. kr. Now I have recorded that savings have not been included in the revised national budget in the short or long term, so that there will be no budgetary consequences of choosing neither one solution nor the other. But if we put this next to the increased effort that the government says they're doing in revised, at 100 million. For groups without work and with poor health, it means – if the Government’s proposal goes through, and so does – that almost all the increased bet is zeroed only by this one measure. It's very symptomatic of what this government is doing, that when they're going to tighten up on something, they're going to tighten up completely and systematically towards people who've lost either their whole or half jobs – and it's a priority that SV deeply disagrees with. In the proposition, it is also made as if doing so the way the Government says now, makes more than today actually get the count that they have lost work, while the numbers attached show that it is the exact opposite. Thus, the technique now recommended by the Government will result in far more people losing their right to a daily allowance, even if they have lost 50 pst. of his job. On the SV side, we think it's important that we don't make changes now that make people who are in a difficult economic situation get even tougher. Because if you've lost half your job and half your income, I think that most people have a lot of problems getting their ends to meet. The result of this, if even more people are to receive even worse advice, is that more people are having problems, that more people need to seek social assistance, and that even more people are facing a much more difficult situation. It does not want to contribute, and therefore we ask for support for the proposal in the suspension of Section 4-13 new fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e925	Partly unemployed persons are entitled to classified or abbreviated daily allowances if their working hours are reduced by at least 50 pst. of previous working hours. Today, the reduction in working time is calculated in relation to one week, while the daily allowance is paid on the basis of a report card every fourteen days. This results in persons working 50 pst. with an alternate two- and three-day week, the daily allowance may be lost even if the reduction in working time over time has actually been at least 50 pst. This is in order to prevent the Government from proposing to extend the period for calculating the working time loss to 14 days, which corresponds to one reporting period. So it is not a saving proposal that has been promoted here, and it is also illustrated by the fact that the representative, Mr Andersen, pointed out that this has not been used for budgetary balancing. The change also means that part of the unemployed will be able to lose the right to a daily allowance during reporting periods during which they are paid one week in accordance with the applicable rules during the reporting period, because the working time is reduced by more than 50 pst. in this one week, but not in the other. When the number of hours worked is distributed over two weeks, the total working time lost during the reporting period could be less than 50 pst. A longer calculation period could give a more complete and correct picture of the actual part-time work of the individual. We can also add that the calculation of working time relative to a 14-day period is already done in the case of redundancy payments under the People's Security Act. 11th@item: inlistbox The amendment therefore harmonises the calculation rules of the Law on People's Rights, which is both more user-friendly and simpler for administration. A system with an alternative method of calculating daily allowances becomes quite incomprehensible. It makes it difficult for users to check if they actually get what they want. It can also lead to greater pressure on Aeta's resources. In conclusion, since this is not the time to bring up the big welfare policy debate, as I see it, let me just say that if it had been so that the changes in welfare schemes that this government has proposed and adopted here in Stortingen with a view to strengthening the working line, would have led to what Karin Andersen now claims, namely more on social assistance, it is strange that we are now seeing a decline in the number of social aid cases. It should have been the opposite, if it had been a trick that reasonableness in the claims that were served here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e938	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 887]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e954	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 889]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e970	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and three lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e981	The Committee has been brought together on the main points of the suspension of the new dispute law. All batches see the need for simplification to make it easier for individuals and businesses to have matters dealt with quickly and cost-effectively. In this context, it has been attempted to establish a principle of proportionality in which cases shall not require more resources for dealing with them than is reasonable in relation to the disputed claim. The Committee sees that everything cannot be done by law alone. Active efforts are also needed among all actors involved in such a process. Active judicial management and the awareness of lawyers are essential for a good and effective settlement of cases. On the basis of the Committee's wish to make a good contribution to the dispute law, the rules on small claims and group actions shall be laid down. The Small Claims Procedure is a simplified procedure in cases where the sum of the disputes is less than DKK 125 000. It can be seen that it would be unfortunate to use more resources to resolve a dispute than the total dispute involved. In any case, it is important to point out that the requirement of sound treatment always prevails. The Committee considers the rules on the small requirements process to be fully satisfactory in this context. In the case of group action, this is a strong strengthening of the interests of consumers. It is desirable to be able to deal with identical cases together and not to burden the courts with many cases that will have to achieve the same result. Consumers also have the opportunity to be cared for where they individually have small requirements, but where the sum of several becomes significant. It is likely that the greatest effect of the possibility of group action will be that some market players will be more reluctant to speculate that consumers will not have the strength to claim their rights. Experience from other European countries is that the number of group actions is limited. That doesn't mean it's unnecessary. The Committee supports the Government that one will now focus on a solution where we go a little further than our neighbouring countries. It is positive that Norway can be in the forefront of the possibility for most people to assert their rights. What is perhaps so important in relation to new dispute laws is the clear starting point for best resolution of disputes between the parties and the importance of mediation and settlement assistance. It's better with a lean settlement than a fat process, it's called. It could mitigate the level of conflict and thus make it easier to co-exist later. One will also be able to live more easily with the solution to the dispute. An amicable solution will also, overall, provide a cheaper dispute resolution and less pressure on the courts. In particular, I would like to highlight the conciliation councils as very good at finding solutions that can be accepted from both parties. It would be interesting to see developments in judicial mediation and dispute resolution in cases that do not concern the Conciliation Board. It will be important to include this in the evaluation of the law after three years, an evaluation of the whole committee. Of course, that is not all you agree on in such a comprehensive law. I assume that the respective parties themselves explain this in their articles. One area where the Progress Party had preferred a different solution than the majority is child protection. The Party considers that there is so much force in these cases that there should be a requirement for the possibility of two court proceedings in these cases. The staff shall be subject to administrative testing by the administrative apparatus. A situation in which, after the administrative test, only one can test his/her case for the property court, is not good. A strong silage to the law of the law of the law is not, in the view of the Progressive Party, the same as a treatment in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law. We would prefer to remove the administrative trial and rather bet on two full court proceedings. The progress party regrets that this does not seem to be possible at this stage. Another question is whether lawyers in some cases should have a public appointment. The majority believe that there will be no need for such a form of government regulation of agreements between two parties. Openness around prices and competition is by experience the best way to regulate such things over time. Maximum prices also have the effect of rapidly becoming minimum prices. I choose to interpret the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV as a desire to limit the costs to most people. This is a commendable initiative, but the Progress Party believes it would be better to lower the fees and not least to remove VAT on legal services. I refer in this connection to our private legislative proposals on this, which unfortunately were voted down. The problem with these charges is that companies can subtract them from their equation, while ordinary people have to pay 100 pst. of its own pocket, without the possibility of a corresponding reduction in its taxes and duties. In this way, there is an even greater imbalance between the parties to a dispute. The progress party believes that raising the threshold in order to try their case in the law is unfortunate. The majority today decides that cases with a dispute amounting to less than DKK 125 000 shall not be dealt with in the law of the law if the economic nature of the case is significant. The progress party believes that this is too high a limit. Our proposal is that the threshold is set at NOK 70 000. This will be a better limit to safeguarding the ability of people most to get their cases tried in the law as well. Studies show that there are changes in many cases that have been appealed against from the right of appeal to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the A dispute of DKK 100 000 is a fairly large sum for ordinary people. It would be unfortunate to remove the quality assurance that a law-enforcement procedure is for most people. The starting point must be that a winning party is kept financially harmless for the purposes of legal proceedings. In particular, one sees this where a person has been dragged into court without being skeptical about it. The Committee has noted that the fear of losing a case, and in particular that one may be condemned to pay the counterparty’s costs, may lead to a case not being raised. One might view this as a way of letting go of unnecessary matters, but it may also lead to people not being willing to assert their rights. A legal loss that is justified in the fear of having to pay large costs is unfortunate. In this context, it is important to have exceptions to the rule that the losing party shall cover the costs of the winning party. It is particularly important to consider that if there is a clear imbalance between the parties, it may be unreasonable to oblige the losing party to cover the costs of the other party. In particular, this is seen in cases between individuals on the one hand, and states, municipalities or strong market players such as insurance corporations and banks on the other hand. It is important for the Court to take this into account when determining whether costs are to be borne by a losing party. In cases where a person has reached a different outcome after an appeal or dispute settlement, a clear withholding should be imposed on the losing party the legal costs of a counterparty which has such a strong position. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1026	The representative, André Kukkestad, has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1031	The progress party likes to present itself as the party to the people most, but in this case I have to say that they rather appear as advocates for the lawyers and want to secure the lawyers' income. We know that the legal system that we have in society makes ordinary people have a much greater need than before to bring cases before the court. But what we experience in many of these cases is that people stay with lua at their hands – to use a term that the Progress Party probably also understands – in relation to, for example. insurance companies in the settlement of claims, because the insurance companies are equipped with the teeth in terms of legal competence, and have many millions of dollars in the book in order to be able to run the cases. Then you have little to do with as a common man, who only has his income to do business with. Then it might be that if you're not right, you get a right. Doesn't the Progress Party see that this is a problem? Does not the Progress Party see that if we are to do something about these problems, we must support the Labour Party's proposals and ensure that it is also a policy for the most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1036	As I understood the Workers' Party's proposal, they were limited in relation to the case types and not in relation to the counterparty. The fact that we want to be sure that the costs of the counterparty are not charged in particularly important cases, against insurance companies, etc. is also the basis for us to make a change in relation to the government's proposals. But I'm not so sure that making rules that neither the lawyer nor the party wants is the best way to make sure that you get good cooperation, where you don't start with various creative solutions to get paid the salaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1043	The rapporteur was concerned that when someone loses a case, it is important to be exempted from having to cover the costs of the case, especially where there is an imbalance between the parties – where one is large and the other small, and where the person who loses is small. Then he points out that he has contributed to a change in that provision. This is a proposal from the Labour Party. But what is not addressed by the Progress Party is the main provision itself – getting the criterion of exemption from costs to be ‘good reasons’ instead of ‘heavy reasons’. What is the reason why the Progress Party believes that there should still be serious reasons for exempting such costs when the representative Kukkestad is focusing on this as such a major challenge? Why doesn't the Progress Party take the chance here and help those who experience this imbalance?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1050	When the Workers' Party talks about good reasons, it can very often be everything and nothing. We believe that there should be a certain threshold when you actually go to court and you apply the costs to the counterparty. One should have thought through, without saying that one should have a ban. And then you can probably talk about the words in this proposal, but in the case of the rule itself, which is based on whether there is an imbalance, the Workers' Party has subscribed to all the remarks that we have written about how this should be interpreted. And if the Workers' Party had been dissatisfied, they would have had their own comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1059	I want to follow up a little on this track – the little man against the big man – because the Progress Party has also proposed to allow one of the parties to oppose treatment according to the rules on small claims. Does not the Procedural Party not see that the ressourced party will in reality be able to prevent court proceedings through a claim for more expensive court proceedings? It is not an option for everyone to make a case according to the general process. Does not the Progress Party therefore really agree that such a solution would be contrary both to the principle of proportionality and to the desire to make court proceedings more accessible to all, irrespective of the financial situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1064	For the Progress Party, it has been essential to have a good process for both parties. So, as the representative of Thorkildsen is probably aware, the small demand process is a simplification, and this is an innovation. We believe that all the time these matters that go after the small claims process do not have the opportunity to be dealt with in the law of the team, so we believe that in fact good, normal treatment in the district court could be an improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1070	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1073	When Odelstinget is today invited to adopt a new dispute law, it is a milestone. Old civil law has gone out of date in many ways, it does not fit the needs of society today in relation to the courts, and it is also a law that does not reflect the situation with which the power investigation came to conclude – at least as a partial conclusion – that we are in the process of legalising many of the problem areas of society to a much greater extent than what we have done in the past, and that we refer people to the judiciary to resolve their conflicts to a much greater extent than what we have done in the past. Many will be familiar with such a situation when they turn around and look both at their own family and not least at their neighbors, in relation to the issue of housing, in relation to the question of children, in relation to the question of work. Earlier today, there has been a debate — and there will be voting — about new labour law, where the issue of legalisation is, in fact, an important element. In this way, there is an unusually important law we adopt in Odelstinget today, and I have to say on behalf of the Workers' Party that we are pleased with the main features of the legislation, which helps to ensure that we get a dispute law that is much more modern and adapted to the individual user of the courts. There's also reason to say here we're facing a lawwork that has a very good pre-work. The Committee on Disputes and others who have contributed to making this law the actual proposal it is today deserve all praise from this pulpit. I also want to say that we are on the right track in the sense that the courts today, regardless of civil dispute law, have already taken up many of the ideas contained in the new draft law. There is extensive mediation, both outside and inside the court, in the case of e.g.: child-sharing cases, have come very far from rapid proceedings in selected areas of Norwegian courts, and we see that Norwegian courts are perhaps much more in the process of recovering the arena in favour of both voluntary arbitration and other dispute resolution mechanisms. When the Labour Party is pleased with the dispute law and the main contention in the law today, it is also because we believe it is important that we have a solid and strong judicial system to deal with disputes in Norway. It is the public courts that have to have the primary task of being a dispute settlementr, unlike other, private solutions, whether it is voluntary arbitration or it is other subjects. The Labour Party has also chosen to place great emphasis on the need to have a general judicial system and to seek to prevent the development of specialised courts in all possible areas. In this way, the proposal for a dispute law and the decision to be taken today seem to be broadly in line with the provision of general courts. We are also pleased with what is now coming, despite strong protests from industry, especially the NHO, in relation to the issue of group action. We think it's a very useful instrument. It may not be widely used, but if it is used, it may have a high impact in relation to the notification area. The same applies to the small demand process, where we hope for a much more active use than the group search could possibly be subject to. The changes that have been made in the committee in relation to the law, which will be made by the majority today in relation to child protection matters, we are not afraid of weakening legal certainty, as the Progress Party will later believe. The Party of Progress assumes that there are no legal guarantees at the time of the important comprehensive treatment carried out in the counties and that this is not the case. It is in the counties that people really have the opportunity to take care of their legal guarantees. There are lawyers, where you process it, you have a full objection, you have full access to documents, maybe more than what you experience in ordinary courts. So we're not worried about that. It's a good change to the Government's bill that we start with the court-martial process. What is sad, on the other hand, is that we do not get a majority today because the judges can actively go in and set a salary, and for the maximum price in selected cases – I will come back to that in a later post, the clock ticks – and not least that when you face an imbalance between the actors and the little man loses, there must still be serious reasons to be able to cover their costs. It's a shame we don't get a majority here. That's what's missing to do this law decision properly. I'm addressing the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1094	The representative Knut Storberget has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1097	In this unusually important case, the representative Storberget has made it his big struggle to regulate another area of Norwegian society. Luckily, he didn't get a majority for that. One of our biggest challenges in Norwegian policy is just to set limits on politics, and unfortunately it looks as if more and more Norwegian politicians on the left-hand side believe that the solution to any problem we have in this society is even more policy. Therefore, they produce proposals for new laws and regulations on current bands, believing that they have finished and solved the problem as soon as a new law has been passed. I must therefore ask the representative Storberget if he believes that going in and legislating in this way and setting a maximum price on legal services is a better way to go than that the lawyers themselves are the ones who need to find the solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1104	The answer is yes. This is an area where we need more rules, and unfortunately, the right-hand side of this fails and does not support us. When you talk about equalising differences between people, about giving the little man rights and about combating poverty, the Labour Party is convinced that then we actually need more than mild gifts from the Bondevik II government, whether it's 100 or 200 million. kr. We need structural decisions, we need law decisions that actually ensure that people get right, and not just right. And these are important issues, much more important than the representative Hofstad later to appear. It's about questions about your children, about questions about homes, and questions about work. I am pleased that the Government in its proposal is not as reprehensible as the representative of Hofstad is now, pointing out that once you have dealt with the rules on, among other things, you have to come back to this set of rules. the law firm. So I encourage the representative to read the government parties' own comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1109	Although child-restraints should initially be in order to achieve the best interests of the child, it is known that there is a bit of each other in this context. I want to ask if Storberget does not see the difference between an administrative review and an independent court order. It is the case that child-restraint cases are fairly coercive, and I assume that the Workers' Party will not try to propose such a treatment for criminal matters as they are now doing for child-restraint cases, all the time it will be in conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights. But does the Labour Party think that instead of two court proceedings, one can initially get more of today's social areas tried by an administrative trial and then a court trial?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1114	This is the case when one is as close to his approach to child protection matters as is now the case-leader of the dispute law, i.e. there is to be ‘a bit of each’ in child protection matters. It is part of – very unfair – to cast a shadow over the actors who are working very seriously on these issues, among others. in the social affairs councils. I am not afraid, as far as the question of dealing with these matters in the counties is concerned, that the guarantee of legal certainty for both the child and the parents is not sufficiently ensured – I kept saying, rather, on the contrary. My experience – and I have met in the social services many times, not as a client, but as a lawyer – is that it is often easier to turn a public decision in the county than in the courts. So if the Progress Party is now going around and thinking that there is no legal certainty guarantee in any way under trial by the social affairs councillors, I must again be allowed to encourage them to take a trip into the landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1119	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1122	The proposal for a new dispute law is a major and important matter which will affect more or less the lives of many people. Most of us hope that we don't have to deal with this law, because a legal dispute can be a heavy burden, but in many cases there is a need to assert their rights in a small or a big case. Things that end up in the court system are very different, both in terms of the amount of economic value involved, and in terms of the area of life in which you live. It is therefore important to have a law that is adapted to the diversity of cases in the judicial system each day, and that is the proposal for a new dispute law to the greatest extent. This is a reform with several main objectives. It shall ensure a more efficient civil justice system that provides quicker, cheaper and fairer dispute resolution for the parties and contributes to legal settlement. Furthermore, it is an important objective that as many disputes as possible should be allowed to be resolved by mediation outside the courts, through the Councils of Conflict or through the Conciliation Councils. In addition, it is an important objective to facilitate access to justice in cases where it is necessary. The legislative proposal provides the basis for a cultural change in the handling of civil disputes. An active case management board is provided by the judge, with greater emphasis on the preparation of the case and shorter main proceedings than today. Furthermore, the handling of each case shall be governed by a principle of proportionality, so that the scope of the negotiation is proportionate to the importance of the case to the parties and to society in general. As a result, easier evidence is provided and increased access to remote sensing is open. During the preparation of the case and in the small claims process, it is possible to hold remote meetings. In order to improve access to justice and to facilitate legal clearance, rules on small claims and group actions are proposed. These rules will include, inter alia: have a bearing on requirements which are individually of less value but which may raise questions of principle or which are collected in large amounts. We are very satisfied with the fact that it is so clear in this law. The small requirement process is a simpler and shorter process, placing greater emphasis on verbality than the general process. Cases with a dispute amounting to less than DKK 125 000 shall, as a general rule, follow the Small Claims Procedure. In those disputes, the right of law must be capable of prior consent before appeal can be promoted. This is an important and good solution that will both contribute to reducing the costs for people and prevent cases from being drawn out for a long time. Group actions shall be open to individuals, organisations and public bodies. In disputes in which many consumers have equal claims, which are so small that they will not be processable, the system of group redress will strengthen the legal position of consumers and make the situation more difficult for the unprofessional market players in particular. It is also an important objective to limit the costs of judicial proceedings against substantive legal disputes. Rules promoting faster procedures and concentration on the substance of the disputes could make the dispute resolution cheaper. Different provisions are proposed with a view to limiting the level of costs involved in civil matters. Not surprisingly, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have made proposals to impose maximum prices on lawyers in certain types of cases. The right goes against it, of course, for several reasons. It is not known that the left-hand side considers it appropriate to regulate as much of the lives of the inhabitants as possible. That is precisely what this proposal is doing. It is a major intervention in the general freedom of contract. The right parties – and the government parties – do not want further segregation of the legal market. For society, it is an advantage that highly qualified legal professionals also deal with everyday light issues. This is important both in order to ensure that these legal rules are implemented and that they are clarified and developed in the best possible way. In addition, maximum hourly rates may contribute to fewer sales of legal assistance services at a lower hourly rate. The Ministry of Justice now has an assessment of how the Committee of Advocates should be monitored. In the view of the Right, the conditions for providing legal assistance and being a procedural agent could affect prices. We therefore believe that different measures to reduce the price of legal services need to be seen in a wider context. That was also what I was in my line to the representative Storberget, and I know very well that this is written in the comments on the Right. We therefore believe that it is natural to return to the issue raised by the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left on which matters the Court should determine the salary of a procedural agent in the context of an overall assessment of the salaries of lawyers in the follow-up to the ‘Justice of Rights’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1151	There is today at least one area where you can find maximum rates for lawyers in Norway, and that is in criminal matters, where you have not only a maximum price, but a very fixed price. And in many of the cases that go for the district court, you also have to figure out that a certain number of hours are accepted, so you have a piece price, which is an even more rigid system. When the representative of Hofstad now says that this would be a major intervention in general contract law, that it would remove the highly qualified lawyers from such cases, and even that it would be a segregation of the law market, does the representative of Hofstad think that it has happened in relation to Norwegian criminal law lawyers? Does she think it's the segregated and worst lawyers that we're seeing now dealing with, and have handled, criminal cases, such as Tor Erling Staff, Olav Hestenes and Alf Nordhus? Are these the lawyers she's thinking about when it comes to getting a worse lawyer's status?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1159	The right answer to the representative Storberget is that this is a proposal and a policy that will lead people behind the light. It will give them unrealistic expectations that these are challenges and problems that we politicians can solve in a hand-turn and through a law. To my good colleague, Mr Storberget, I must say that the world is not that simple. We have also seen that the lawyers themselves have taken the initiative in a larger debate on how to make changes. That there are challenges here, we agree. But all parties, apart from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, have said in that case that the work of the Government on the 'Right to Justice' comes back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1166	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1169	SV mainly supports the proposals for provisions of the new dispute law, but we are disappointed that the majority did not want to take more action to make the judiciary fairer and more accessible to ordinary people. SV believes, like the Workers' Party, that it has become more difficult to get right in Norway. Lawyers’ services are too expensive for many, and the free legal aid system has not improved by the reintroduction by the Government and the Advance Party of abductions in free legal aid against the votes of the Workers’ Party and the SV. We are living at a time when more and more cases are being referred to in the courts. At the same time, the threshold for people is higher in order to meet their legal challenges. It has become more difficult to take part in legal proceedings concerning who should be responsible for the child, who should be responsible for the defect of the house, or how much compensation should be paid to the injured person. This is a development that we don't want. We are deeply concerned about the expenses that people incur by engaging lawyers in the necessary assistance. Some lawyers' trial fees and billing have made it difficult for people who are right to get their rights. This, in conjunction with the fact that lawyers almost exercise a legal aid monopoly, argues that costs have to be reduced. A link between increasing the free legal aid rate and setting the maximum hourly price for selected cases could be a possible solution. Many lawyers are currently operating on the basis of government legal aid rates under the Free Legal Assistance Scheme, even with limitations on how many hours can be billed – i.e. one price. This can be well practised in other areas, and the SV and the Workers' Party propose this for a range of issues of a social nature in which most of us could be at risk. In addition, in the same range of consumer issues — children’s distribution, association, consumer affairs, home and home affairs, insurance and some rights issues — the courts should be given the task of setting salaries for both parties. SV believes that this, together with the removal of the excesses in free legal aid cases, an extended scope and an increase in the income limit, will democratize the judiciary and make the law more equal to the population. It is good that the majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV, once again ask the Government to remove the excesses of free legal aid and free trial and to make the legal aid offer more accessible. We say that the scope should be extended, and we want an assessment of raising income limits. In addition, SV will follow the Jussbuss proposal to look at the Finnish legal aid system, with a view to such a reform also in Norway. I'd like to say a little bit about babysitting. In this respect, the SV and the majority believe that the broad lines of the current rules on judicial review of administrative coercive decisions in the health and social sector need to be continued. It is important that such matters are anchored and addressed locally. There should be no specific rules on the order of business for the review of decisions under the Child Protection Act. The need to ensure a rapid peace of mind around the children can be ensured by imposing strict conditions for appeals in the courts of law. However, when the judgment of the Court of First Instance is enforced which has not been adopted by the Court of First Instance, special considerations may arise in order to give rise to further examination of the case. This may be the case where the county council has not acted on the proposal for action of the Child Protection Service and where the municipality of the District Court has made a claim for more in-depth action than that proposed for the county council. Before complying with the rules on child protection to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Member States, it has been the subject of proceedings both in the state and in the courts of the courts of the courts of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Where the case is not a case of principle, substantial emphasis should be placed on whether it is likely that the outcome will be different after appeal proceedings and the question of the use of coercion may, in any case, be re-examined after a relatively short period of time. Both the need for a shorter duration of proceedings and the need for legal certainty must weigh heavily on cases under the Child Protection Act. That is why, as the majority, we believe that a rule should be introduced that the courts should always have one expert and one play with one judge. This is largely a codification of current practice. Such a system ensures expertise, while professionals or experts do not dominate the composition. In some cases, the need for legal certainty may be particularly serious. We will therefore follow up the proposal of the Committee on Disputes on Enhanced Disputes in specific cases. The court will then be set up with two judges and three judges, one or two of whom will be experts. Such a composition may be desirable where the case is particularly difficult, or where enforcement decisions with unusually wide-ranging consequences are concerned. SV is for a purpose paragraph dealing with matters such as fairness, soundness, trust and impartiality of the judges. However, we were not enthusiastic about the reference to the total resources of the courts, and in this respect that the proceedings and costs should be proportionate to the importance of the case. It is the task of the courts to establish the minimum objective of sound procedure and it is the responsibility of the Grand Duchy to assess the resource needs of the annual budgets. It becomes problematic if the total resources of the courts are to reduce the requirement of what constitutes a proper handling of cases. SV is therefore satisfied that the reference to the total resources of the courts was removed during the committee’s proceedings. SV is also pleased that the committee has lowered the threshold for cases to be tried out. This applies in particular to matters where one has to do with values that are of a certain size for those concerned, and where otherwise the case may have major consequences for those concerned. The government's proposal to limit this possibility to matters of particular importance was a very strong restriction. This is now being amended by the Committee, in order to facilitate the review of cases. SV is pleased that the legal mediation system is now permanent and that the law now provides for more active case management from the judge to ensure progress in the proceedings. We are concerned that the costs of judicial proceedings should be as low as possible. The Small Claims Procedure, Group Procedures, Obligations of the Parties before proceedings are brought and enhanced judicial management will help to reduce the level of costs and thus the threshold for the individual to bring legal proceedings. All proposals for changes to the civil procedure will not be able to take place without further action. For example, the assumption of a more active judiciary will also depend on the resources, knowledge and culture of the individual courts. In order to get an overview of whether the new civil procedure actually works after the intentions, the court shall be evaluated. SV is very pleased that the entire committee wants this. SV believes, like the Workers' Party, that in some cases it must be easier to obtain exemptions to cover the salary of the counterparty than that proposed by the Government in Section 20-2, in particular in relation to matters of welfare importance. Consideration must be given to the resources of the counterparty and the reasonableness of bringing an action. We therefore want a slightly wider access to discharge these costs and propose this. The SV and the Workers' Party also consider that the limitation of appeal in relation to the value of the disputed item to the law should be linked to a flexible size and not to a fixed amount of DKK 125 000. The introduction of a flexible size that is crucial to the right to appeal can be achieved by using the basic amount of the public interest, i.e. G. In addition, we believe, and here we are included in a majority, that there should be a certain opportunity to overestimate the reasonableness of the decision to refuse an appeal promoted. We ask the Government to assess, investigate and come back to the Stortinget with proposals for the possibility to appeal against a refusal of referral on the basis of proceedings in cases involving values above NOK 125 000. Finally, I would like to highlight the proposal on group action, which SV believes is a major step forward for consumers. We are very pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of this, so that this access is introduced into Norway. The representative Anne Helen Rui from the Workers' Party deserves tribute for having been farsighted in this matter when she presented the proposal ten years ago. The slogan “better late than never” fits in between on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1195	The representative of Thorkildsen was very concerned about the importance of attaching anchorsum and so on. to the basic amount of the social security. Why does she want to attach it to the basic amount of social security and not to the legal fee, such as. Does anything have to do with the courts? Now, the basic amount of the population's money is changing at least once a year. You can then get into a situation where you prepare one case for one process form, and then, because of a change in the basic amount of the population, it is led to another. Does SV mean that it provides the necessary predictability for those involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1202	The answer to that is yes. We actually believe that it gives predictability. It's not hard to figure out. There are quite a number of other arrangements today that have also been swallowed by the Progress Party through its conciliation with the Government along the way, such as proposals. is linked to the legal fee, where the Government has resorted to a practice that affects the poor to a large extent, and where there is a much more unpredictable situation for ordinary people than to link this to the basic amount of the population’s fear. So I'm a little surprised by that line, because there might be other things that would be a little bit more important to deal with, for example. how we should keep the legal fees at a lower level, which the Progress Party has not been particularly concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1207	It is possible that the representative of Thorkildsen does not think this is important because it does not affect her. But you quickly get into a situation where you have to frame a case for an ordinary process. Then, because of the change in the basic amount, you're going to go into e.g. a small demand process, which also has a significant impact on the payroll assessment. Who does Thorkildsen think should take the bill that exists between the law-enforcement assessment in the small-scale procedural legislation and in the general legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1212	I'm not sure I understood that line either. I have some problems understanding what the representative Kukkestad is up to, in a lot of the things we have in Stortinget. In dealing with the dispute law, it has been important to focus in particular on the need for ordinary people to have access to justice. We believe that where there has been a distinction in these matters between our representatives and the Labour Party on the one hand and the Progress Party on the other, it is quite obvious that it is the left-hand side that has ensured that ordinary people have better access to the judiciary. As for the line that the representative Kukkestad had, I think it was very difficult to understand what the question was really about, so maybe he could repeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1221	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1224	The Judicial Committee has for the first time dealt with cultural matters. Ot. pp. No 51 is both a legislative proposal and a basis for cultural reform in the courts with regard to the handling of civil disputes. It is necessary to take action to make it easier and cheaper to resolve locked-up legal conflicts. It is also necessary to provide for the possibility of resolving as many cases as possible outside the legal system. The government has taken both of these issues seriously and presented to the Stortinget a good proposal for a new dispute law. The main objective of the reform is to provide a more efficient civil justice system that provides a faster, cheaper and fairer dispute resolution for the parties and contributes to legal settlement. The legislative proposal provides for more disputes than today to be resolved by mediation. Because the parties must be forced to clarify their disagreement at an early stage, it will be easier for both them and their lawyers to assess the possibility and appropriateness of making settlements. This is good. No one has been served that disunity and strife go beyond what is necessary. In this respect, it is also very positive that judicial mediation is now being introduced as a permanent arrangement in all courts of the country. An active case management board is provided by the judge, with greater emphasis on the preparation of the case and shorter main proceedings than today. In addition, the handling of each case shall be governed by a principle of proportionality, so that the scope of the negotiations is proportionate to the importance of the case and the overall resources of the Court of Justice. As a result, it's being prepared for a simpler presentation of evidence, and it opens up, among other things. for increased access to remote. The Arbitration Act is based on existing court structures. However, the law involves a certain change in the procedure in the Supreme Court. In the future, the Supreme Court shall deal with particularly important matters in a Grand Chamber of eleven judges. Such cases are being dealt with today by the Court of Justice in plenary. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure that matters relating to issues concerning whether Norwegian law is contrary to the Constitution continue to be dealt with by the Supreme Court in plenary. This is important, because the Storting will certainly have assessed the relationship with the Constitution when a law is passed. The competence to review such an assessment should not be left to anyone other than the Court of First Instance in plenary, and I am pleased that an overall committee has concluded this. The proposal suggests that child protection cases dealt with in the county councils may be directly appealed to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the country. The Christian People's Party believes that the intention behind this proposal is very good. For the best interests of children, it is necessary to reduce the time taken to deal with them. It is totally irresponsible that matters of care failure can be dealt with both through the county council and, in the worst case, through the whole of three courts. No one wins such a procedure. However, we in the Christian People's Party, together with a broad majority of the Judicial Committee, have concluded that the treatment of child protection matters should continue to follow the order of the ordinary instance. In our opinion, the need to ensure a rapid peace of mind for the children can be ensured by imposing strict conditions for appeals in the law of law enforcement. We are therefore in favour of a strict silage mechanism for anchors to the Law of Lawyers. However, when the council refuses to approve the coercive decision, and the tribunal then comes to the opposite conclusion, no appeal to the law enforcement authority shall be denied. For reasons of legal certainty, it is important that enforcement decisions under the Child Protection Act can be reviewed. In order to ensure a fair trial in the courts, we have decided to strengthen the composition of the court in dealing with these cases. We believe that this, along with a narrow appeal, is a good solution that takes care of both efficiency and legal certainty. In order to improve access to justice and to facilitate legal clearance, rules on small claims and group actions are proposed. This will include, inter alia: have a bearing on requirements which are individually of less value but which may raise questions of principle or which are collected in large amounts. The small requirement process is a simpler and shorter process, placing greater emphasis on verbality than the general process. As a general rule, cases with a dispute amount lower than NOK 125 000 shall follow the small claims process. In those disputes, the right of law must be capable of prior consent before appeal can be promoted. Group applications may be submitted by individuals, organisations and public bodies. In disputes where many consumers have the same requirements as are so small that they will not be processable, the group redress system will strengthen the legal position of consumers and make the situation more difficult for unprofessional market players. It is a very important objective to limit the costs of judicial proceedings against substantive legal disputes. Rules promoting faster procedures and concentration on the substance of the disputes could make the dispute resolution cheaper. The proposal proposes many provisions aimed at limiting the level of the costs of actions in civil matters, including: Motivation of settlement of cases from the judicature’s lateral proportionality in the case-law of the Small Claims Group Procedures These are all measures which will undoubtedly reduce the costs of the case and increase the availability of the legal instrument. For a long time it has been focused on the salaries of lawyers. It is often expensive to get the help of a lawyer to resolve a case and bring it to justice. There is no doubt that the dispute law will help to reduce legal bills. The law adds up to a faster and cheaper process. It will clearly have a positive impact on the level of costs. It will also help to increase citizens' real access to justice and increase legal certainty. The courts, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, are today in favour of the detention of claims on the part of one party. In our view, the Courts should have a far more central role in governing the level of costs of the case than they have today. I am therefore pleased that the courts with the dispute law have more effective tools to control and influence the pay claims of lawyers. The Committee stresses in its position the importance of the use of the legal option by the courts to provide a more reasonable level of costs, and I assume that the judges will follow this up. We in the Christian People's Party have, during the discussion of the proposition on the dispute law, carefully assessed whether there was a need for further action in order to reduce the level of the cost of court proceedings on civil claims. The starting point for the assessment has been that we do not want measures that involve further segregation of the legal market. Nor do we want measures to ensure that the best legal practitioners refuse to do business with everyday legal problems. It is important that competent lawyers are also willing to assist in family disputes, inheritance and labour law issues in order to ensure that legal rules in areas such as these are enforced and that they are clarified and developed in the best possible way. These objections and concerns are the reason why the Christian People's Party does not support the Workers' Party's proposal and SV on paid pay. However, we will review this issue again and in a broader context when the Government promotes a case to the Stortinget in the context of NOU 2002: 18, Right to justice. It is important for the Christian People's Party that the one who is right is also right. In most cases, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is fair for the winner of a case to be completely or substantially compensated for by the losing party. However, in some cases it is unreasonable for the losing party to pay the costs of the winning party. This could be done, for example, by: where the winner has failed to fulfil his obligations during the preparation of the case, if the case is relevant in addition to the case in question to the winner, if the case concerns a typical consumer issue, if it has a substantial welfare significance for one party to have the case tried, or if there is a substantial difference of resources between the parties. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that there was a majority in the Committee for a certain extension of the rules on exemption from civil liability. The new Law on Disputes shall replace the present Law on Disputes, which constitutes one of the pillars of the judiciary. It is an important cultural reform and an important guarantee of legal certainty. A prerequisite for the Storting to achieve its objective by law is an active judgeship. The judges must now show the will and ability to control. Today, the Grand Duchy adopts an important law for the State of Justice of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1301	I listened with interest to the comments of the representative Holstad, because he had very good arguments as to why more should be allowed the judge to set the salary requirement. He argued so strongly for the Workers' Party's and SV's proposals that I think it is almost strange that he does not take the step fully. It amazes me. Is it so with the Christian People's Party now that you are good in words to have, but when it comes to action, aren't you in it? I think this is not least disappointing the Christian People's Party's voters – for they, like everyone else, are busy with houses, homes and income. And that's exactly what this is all about in these cases. It's about getting people right when it comes to house, home and income issues. So I want to challenge the Christian People's Party: what's so scary about this proposal? What is it also so daunting about the Workers' Party's and SV's proposal on maximum prices for legal leave? It cannot be an argument, as the Right argues, that there will be a threat to free contract law. There is no good argument that ordinary people should also have an opportunity in the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1308	I myself believe that I have made it clear why we do not want to go into the proposal of the Labour Party and the SV today. We have chosen to await the follow-up of this NOU, the Right to Justice, and the work and proposal that the Government will hopefully present to the Storting later. We do that because we want to see these things in a larger perspective – not just look at the heads and ears in a given moment in a given case – and also in relation to legal certainty in addition to the crown amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1313	I think it is with respect to report that there is little time to fight poverty and the fight against diversity by the Christian People's Party in this matter, when it is said here in Odelstinget that we should wait for this issue – which is a fairly simple question, the question of whether the judges should be allowed to set a salary on incredibly important matters for people, whether it be house, home, child or work. There are issues where people can drive completely in the ditch, socially and psychologically, but not least economically. The Christian People's Party has chosen to flag very heavily that they should be combatants of poverty and differences. Here, there's a free opportunity to participate in the creation of a majority, so that those who may be struggling the most can get some drag help from us compared to limiting some of the costs that may seem devastating to many. I am very surprised that you then choose such a backward attitude that you will wait for it, all the time this proposal has actually been in the public domain and in this house for over a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1320	I understand the disappointment of the representative Storberget in a matter in which he personally has many shares. I understand that he would like to have a Christian People's Party on a majority in this context. As far as I am concerned, a majority has said that we want to evaluate the dispute law and set a deadline for this. I believe that, with all the other measures, in addition to the ability of judges to set salaries, you actually expect a change, a turnaround in the way disputes are dealt with in this country. My hope, the hope of the Christian People's Party and of the Government, and I will believe the hope of many other parties, is that this in itself will bring significant improvement to the financial burden of getting it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1325	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1328	The proposal for a new dispute law, in the opinion of the Centre Party, contributes to the necessary simplification and clarification of part of the rules on civil proceedings in the courts. At the same time, the legislative proposal also involves significant changes both in the possibility of bringing proceedings and in the manner in which the case is to be brought before the courts. The Dispute Targets Committee identified a number of reform needs. In particular, the costs of bringing proceedings and the long duration of treatment we experience were highlighted. The government proposes in the proposition to make it easier for most people to assert their right through the courts, but also places great emphasis on increasing the level of mediation and clarification before a case is raised. In this context, I think there is reason to mention that, in case of hopeless claims or objections, simplified court proceedings could be carried out – that is good – and that an increased use of mediation should be made of a permanent system in the form of legal mediation and, to a greater extent, use other types of mediation to prevent full court proceedings, and that is good. There shall also be a small claim process for property value issues of less than DKK 125 000. In recent years, there has been a trend towards increasing legalisation in a wide range of areas of society. In a sense, as politicians, we should occasionally ask questions about whether there is a proper development that more and more of society's different areas of action can be brought before a court. But whether we like such a development or not, we have to take the consequences of how we set up the judiciary in order to meet that kind of development. The central party mainly supports the majority in the vote on the new dispute law. I am therefore only going to link some comments to topics that have been given a lot of attention in the media and that have also been in the debate here today. In strong order, the Labour Party has called for a maximum price for legal services. The centre party shares the concern for high salaries, but we find it difficult to agree with the measures outlined in the media, nor does it agree with what is outlined in today's vote. We will therefore vote against proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV, on a maximum price of some cases within the judiciary. We believe that a more important and more important debate in the first place is to look at an extension of the current legal aid system both in terms of scope and in terms of amounts limits, than to allow the Court to set salaries in a selection of cases. There is a kind of partial introduction of the maximum price, and the centre party has, for its part, previously opposed it, and considered that this is a question that needs to be considered on a broader basis than what we are able to do through today's delinquency treatment. On the other hand, the Group of the European People's Party supports proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV, that in some cases it must be easier to obtain an exemption from the obligation to cover the salary of the counterparty. We thus want to extend the Government’s proposal to include issues of welfare importance, and to focus on the counterparty’s resources and reasonableness by raising the issue. With regard to proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party is going to vote against them. It is only natural for a difficult assessment to relate the appeal limitation to a fixed sum or to G. I see the arguments that it can be more flexible, but I don't know what for most people is the nicest topic to deal with, that you connect it up to G, or that you connect it up to a fixed sum, which is proposed fixed to NOK 125 000. And then you can probably discuss for sure if $15,000 is the right sum to deal with. But at least the Central Party has the belief that we want to support the limitation of appeals to be linked to a fixed sum, that the limitation of appeals is linked to G.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1347	In a modern state of law, justice must be both high-quality and effective. Western societies are at a time when the courts are more important. There are more and more legal aspects which may require the courts to enforce or clarify the content of the rules. A new law must be adapted to the types of dispute and technology that will be in force in the 21st century. The main objective of the dispute settlement process is to speed up, cheaper and more appropriate dispute resolution. The code of conduct shall contribute to both law enforcement and legal clearance. With the background to the main objective, two elements in particular have led to the design of the law. On the one hand, it is an objective that disputes be resolved, if possible, outside the courts. The rules governing the settlement of the content of the dispute before the case is raised and the weighting of mediation before the case is taken into account. On the other hand, the law shall facilitate access to the courts where necessary. Here several grips have been made that collectively aim to form a paradigm shift in the straight line. The two elements must be seen in the context. The fact that both parties have effective access to the courts is an important prerequisite for achieving amicable solutions in accordance with the rules of law, in order to enable them to be implemented at the least cost to the person with the right to invoke. The law has several important steps that will make the process cheaper for the parties, while at the same time the courts will continue to be the solution to the conflict that provides the most reassuring and qualified procedure. The principle of proportionality shall permeate the process. Where, for reasons of principle or otherwise, a case is of particular importance to the parties, there is reason to carry out a more thorough and comprehensive procedure than in other cases. This is the background to the right to set time limits for the main negotiation and to cut off evidence of limited importance and to simplify the procedure in the new small claims process. Secondly, it is essential for successful reform that judges have a more active role to play in the management of cases. This shall not lead to an increase in the amount of work done, but to a shift of part of their work from the main negotiation towards the start of the case preparation. This will clarify the disagreement between the parties as early as possible and the need for mediation can be followed up as early as possible. Guidance is often needed to ensure the success of case management. The judge's responsibility for guidance is more clearly underlined in the new law. Overall, this should lead to significantly less time spent by courts in most small and medium-sized cases on each case. The new system of group action is also an important contribution to improving access to justice. This will primarily strengthen consumers in the face of strong market players. I agree with the committee majority's proposal that child protection matters start in the district court. I assume that the laws of law only exceptionally, as the committee has then outlined, will give consent to the promotion of appeals against the judgment of the tribunal. In doing so, the government's desire for the swiftest possible peace around the children is taken care of. I also agree with the majority's proposal to emphasise the relationship between the parties in determining whether costs of action will be replaced and with the Committee's proposal for amendments to the purpose paragraph. I agree with the committee that the Stortinget is responsible for providing sufficient funds to the courts, but I stress that I do not see this as contrary to the fact that the heads of the courts and the judges will be responsible for the implementation of the case-handling cases set against the background of what follows from the rules of sound procedure. It is that there has been a debate about the costs of being in court, and I think the debate almost gives a perspective distortion. For the entire main approach here, it is cost-reduction. The main approach here is to seek to resolve a case rather outside a court of law, and to use the low-threshold light that lies in the settlement councils, and then in court, and make it as simple as possible in the small claims process by strengthening consumers in group cases and through active judicial governance to reduce costs. That's the whole big deal. I find it strange that representatives of the largest opposition party are not happy and almost cheering over this main grip, but almost in a button sentence just joins it. It's a day of rejoicing. In the previous legislative reform at this point, the investigation was completed in 1915. The first part came into force in 1927, and then in 1935 – and it's not a pace we're going to keep in our time at least. These are the main grips. And when it comes to the concept of cost, I would like to praise the Association of Lawyers, who go out and provide consumer information to people and make sure that the price is known, so that you don't get a standard rate, and so that you can control, for example. in an agreement with a lawyer what a person gets. These questions have been more pointed out, and the Government will come back to them in connection with the Right to justice. Let me also underline what the representative Holstad said, and I think other representatives have also been involved, that this is also a cultural revolution in the sense that emphasis is placed on the training of judges, who, in addition to being good in the juxtaposition and wise in the head, will also become the cultural bearer of the simplification and the citizen thinking that permeates this reform. Let me say that it is a great pleasure that the head of the reform investigation sits and listens in the lodge. He has probably earned that for doing a good job in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1378	Yeah, tonight's a party. We're all cheering. And I fully agree with the Minister of Justice on the issue of the main actions, which will ensure cheaper justice for many. But what the Minister of Justice jumps over, are those who in many ways do not get the benefit of the main acts, those who do not get their case settled, those who have to go all the way. Should we force them into a ruinous situation? It does not include a settlement by the Government. That's what you're going to do. Keep me safe well – it would have been a great advantage if everyone had come under the main steps and had their case resolved. But what happens when the matter is not resolved? Does the Minister not see the problem in relation to these? He himself describes the international situation, among other things. in Germany and the Netherlands. Isn't the good experience in steering this legal market closer? Moreover, I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice: does he understand that the legal market is currently segregated in a poor and good legal standing in the areas where it is regulated most, i.e. in criminal law? Do we have a segregated law market there?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1383	I do not share the unimpeded belief in detailed regulation in most questions. When I was very small, it was decided in Norway, for example. a detailed regulation of all prices, in order to promote social justice. The law has never been used. On the other hand, I share the view that many reforms need to be made to reduce costs. I share the idea that I have previously endorsed in the budget debate that we need to look at the Finnish legal aid system, a system that allows us to have better access to the legal aid. I have praised the Association of Lawyers to take important steps to enter into proper agreements with those they are to serve, to make important steps and to express prices. I promise to go into the situations that, among other things. is concerned with the reasons for, for example: shall not pay the costs of the case, which have been borne by more than one representative. I have the same opinion as the representative Holstad that the whole thing is also facing the weakest in that whole government will deal with when we look at the Right to justice. There is no doubt that I have this holistic approach. But the representative Storberget believes more in old-fashioned socialist dogmas as an instrument than I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1396	The left is occupied by the public. They are strong spokesmen for the practice of more publicity in municipalities and counties across the whole country. Governments are pleased that Stortinget has taken a grip and also made supporting documents public, in the second paragraph of Section 9-14. The Council of State was also in place at the time of entry into force. How long does the Council of State want us to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1404	At the end of a great period and before the election vows rage over us, I will be very careful to anticipate my discussions in the Government, among others. with the Minister of Finance. But let me say the following: I think one of the most important things that can happen with this reform is that we are being trained, that we are getting the cultural process that Holstad especially pointed out. I'll do my utmost to get an entry into force as soon as possible. But first of all, there's a choice to be made. Then the voters shall pronounce a judgment. We are all subject to that judgment. But if it's me and my energy it's on, it's going to come into effect quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1411	I do not believe that the Council of State takes seriously the question that has been raised, especially by the Workers' Party, but also by me. Among other things, the representative Storberget asked: whether it is in the area of criminal law that there has been a segregation and that this has become a problem in this area. It didn't answer the councils. When you resort to rhetorical tactics like this is about old socialist dogmas, it might be tempting to claim that you're empty of good arguments, simply. I have come to understand that the Left Party's leader, Sponheim, has boasted that the Left Party is the party that can change its mind. We then cling to the belief that it can be done in this field as well. Since the majority of the committee has actually asked the Government to evaluate this in a later process, I would like to ask if it is such that the Council of State will then assess this properly and thoroughly. Or will he dismiss it as old socialist dogmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1418	Not only do we in the Left, but all thinking people change their minds because you go deep in yourself. I'm assuming that this also applies to the Socialist Left Party. By the way, I am glad that this happened in connection with the treatment of the Finnish Law. But back to the matter here today. When the committee asks me to consider something really, I do it intellectually and fairly. There are quite specific questions raised, among other things. when to ensure that you do not have to pay the costs. It's done a lot of work. What I had a settlement with was the general belief in a maximum price. I had a settlement with that because I think a general maximum price can easily lead to raising the level in many cases where you don't have to do it. I didn't make a deal with this that people could have a better chance. I showed you, among other things: to the Finnish legal aid system — which I believe is to take this properly — which provides a completely different approach in these areas. I understand from the representative of Thorkildsen that we are approaching the moment when there is an election campaign. I've decided to let myself go a little bit more. I've started to do it already today, because it's time I started to become a little bit smaller government council and a little bit more – let's say – big-time candidate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1429	We'll take note of that. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1434	From my point of view in the family, cultural and administrative committees, I would like to make it clear that the broad lines of the current rules on the judicial review of administrative coercion decisions in the health and social sectors should be continued. It is important that such matters are anchored and addressed locally. The Labour Party believes that these cases should be initiated in the main proceedings in order to simplify and reduce the burden on the parties. The need to ensure a rapid peace of mind around the children can be ensured by imposing strict conditions for appeals in the courts of law. Both the need for a shorter duration of proceedings and the need for legal certainty must weigh heavily on cases under the Child Protection Act. It is important that the children are quickly calmed down. The community has become so complicated that too many people need legal assistance and legal assistance. This is not least reflected in divorce and child distribution. The rights of the child must and must be safeguarded and strengthened. I would like to stress that it must never be such that laws and regulations are adapted to what is most appropriate for adults. To that, the child’s position is too exposed and the child itself is too important. Children shall be entitled to assistance. The use of experts or own lawyers can help children in a difficult situation. We're talking first and foremost about the child's rights, not about the child's rights. It should also be noted by zealous grandparents. I am therefore pleased that the members of the Judicial Committee of the Workers' Party have put the search light on the costs of getting help from a lawyer. The working party focuses on the ability of ordinary people to solve their everyday affairs. It is true, as the Labour Party and the Left Party point out in their comments, that one “cannot sit still and see that many who are right do not get right” because it is too expensive to get legal help. It is therefore essential to strengthen the free legal aid system so that more people can be helped to solve their legal problems. The Labour Party wants to make it easier for ordinary people to participate in, for example, a legal case about who should be responsible for the child. Like the Labour Party members of the Judicial Committee, I would like to point out that it is important to remove the excess of free legal aid and to consider raising the income limit, so that more people can afford to obtain legal aid. If the Labour Party receives a majority in favour of its proposals, it will be easier to avoid costs if a case is lost. It's hard to be human, someone has said. I don't think anyone will abuse the courts if we reduce the economic barriers. I think, on the other hand, that we are preventing only those with good finances who get right – because they can afford a good lawyer. In today's society, where marriage is dissolved and parents and grandparents are tearing and struggling in their children, it's more important than ever that the legal system is involved and eliminates the difference between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1451	It's an old law, from 1915, that gets its redemption today. The new dispute law provides for a substantial revision of the procedure in civil matters in the courts. It's necessary to get a more time-consuming treatment than what we have today. The power investigation, to which many have referred today, shows that society is moving towards more and more legalisation. We may or may not like that, but there's also a point that people have become more aware of their rights, and that people are far more educated than they were when we got our first dispute law. As a result, many people make use of the courts, but this has also resulted in many people who cannot afford to make use of the courts, but who need it. The problem today is that processes are too cumbersome and too costly. As a result, many people cannot afford to go to the courts. The proposal presented by the Government is a good one. It simplifies the process, it contributes to more effective proceedings, more active case management by judges, greater emphasis on case preparation, shorter main negotiations and increased emphasis on mediation, and it leads to the introduction of mechanisms such as small claims and group actions. All of this will make it easier for most people to access the courts. However, as long as the level of costs is not concerned, it would in itself seem deterrent to many to go to the courts and try their rights. I understand that the Dørum Council needs to train its electoral campaign, because as a left-wing politician, you live a dangerous life in the days before a election. But the ideas of the «old-fashioned socialist dogmas» that he argued that the proposals of the Workers' Party are, it is the Council of State that has put us on. It is the Council of State's sea that has put us on the ideas. Because it is in the draft law of the Council of State that one has carefully assessed both the question of maximum rates at the law firm and the possibility for the judge to determine the salary. In many cases, we experience that when many people come to the courts, they do not have the opportunity to assert their rights to, among other things. large insurance corporations or large producers of goods in relation to matters they have. For example, we can take insurance cases, where people try to get compensation after, for example: a traffic accident, where we know that insurance companies have been spared their teeth in terms of legal competence, and have a budget of millions in order to run legal proceedings. And they're willing to lead the case to the top to win. Then it's no use for the little man to win. Suffering if he's right, he's not getting right, because that's the capital he's fighting against. In such cases, it is absolutely necessary to make proposals, as the Labour Party suggests, that judges are given far more opportunity to determine the salary requirement, that we set the maximum price for legal fees, but that in principle there is also the possibility that the losing party may not pay its costs. If also the government parties believe that we're going to be able to do something about this unfortunate power shift you have in such cases, you have to do something about the financial issues in civil matters as well. It's not just useful to do something about the processes and organisation in the courts and simplify it there. You also have to look at the economic aspects of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1466	The new dispute law is to replace the applicable dispute law from 1915, and for a time we also passed a new penal code here in the house. The old one had been working since 1902. In a short time, the government has proposed a completely new piece of legislation in two of the most central areas of Norwegian law, laws that have been patched up and adjusted over time, where there has been a great need to simplify and modernise. The new dispute law has as its central objective the reduction of the costs of resolving civil disputes. It's important for people to see themselves served by enforcing their rights in the courts. At the same time, it has been important to create a law that is simple and transparent, adapted to the diversity of disputes before the courts. In the view of the Right, the law contains several important elements, elements that will both contribute to a faster and more efficient procedure and at the same time lower costs, for society in general and not least for the parties. The legislative proposal provides the basis for a cultural change in the handling of civil disputes. An active case management board is provided by the judge, with greater emphasis on case preparation and shorter main proceedings than today. Furthermore, the handling of each case shall be governed by a principle of proportionality, so that the scope of the negotiations is proportionate to the importance of the case to the parties and to society in general. As a result, easier evidence is provided and increased access to remote sensing is open. It is an important objective to limit the costs of judicial proceedings against substantive legal disputes. Rules promoting faster procedures and concentration on the substance of the dispute could make the dispute resolution cheaper. Different provisions are proposed with a view to limiting the level of costs involved in civil matters. An overall committee believes that the courts should have a far more central role in governing the level of costs of the case than they currently have, and sees that the detention of the Court of Justice in reducing costs promoted can contribute to a higher level of costs. An overall committee also refers to the follow-up to NOU 2002:18, Right to justice, and requests that further measures to reduce cost levels be assessed separately. In this debate, there has been a lot of focus on the cost level of disputes in the courtroom today. I think it is important to stress that it is a central objective that legislation motivates the parties to settle disputes outside the general courts. An overall committee is concerned that the legalisation of obligations before the case is raised, the obligation to notify the counterparty, to clarify claims and to disclose important evidence, will help to motivate and make visible the possibilities for a non-judicial solution. The statutory obligation to try to resolve the dispute before the proceedings would result in a better use of judicial resources and lower costs for the parties. Through conciliation, non-judicial mediation proposals and the possibility of bringing the case to an extrajudicial conclusion, the parties will have good opportunities to settle the dispute. Today, we are taking a very important decision. The civil process is simplified and modernised. That's the heart of the matter. The Dispute Act is not part of the Government's poverty package. There's also over NOK 3 billion in this period, but it's not today's theme. What is today's theme is a law for all disputes, disputes relating to poor and rich. I don't want to go into the socialist rhetoric that the opposition has now resorted to, and talk about capital and poverty reduction. This is a dispute law, and we all agree that we should try to make this as reasonable, as efficient and as good as possible for the parties. But that the Labour Party chooses to turn one of our most important laws into a debate on poverty reduction, does not surprise us at this time of year – so soon before the elections. The facts stand out – it will be easier, fairer and faster to settle civil matters with the new dispute law. I would like to congratulate the Committee on Disputes at its chairman, Tore Schei, Minister of Justice Dørum and ourselves, the Committee on Justice, with a job well done. This is a decision that will stand as a stake in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1492	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1495	I think it is important to stress what has already been said by the Dørum Council of State, namely that it is unfortunate to turn this debate into a debate about who is giving people the cheapest possible trial. In fact, it's all about trying to avoid spending a lot of money. That's what's in the whole setting, and I think it's important to underline it. However, I have to – not extend the response of the representative Einar Holstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party – but to stress what the representative Holstad said, namely that for the Christian People's Party, it is important in this context to stress that we do not, in individual cases, jump on proposals that have to come, to reduce expenditure. I understand very well that the Workers' Party is taking the opportunity to attack the Christian People's Party on the point of combating poverty, and is going to cut the expenses of the poor. We are concerned with those questions in the Christian People's Party. But we're not so busy with them that we have to draw them into every case and separate them from a larger context. That is exactly what we have also said about this matter. It's been clarified several times, but I think it's necessary to do it again: we'll get back to this. It's not just the Christian People's Party that will come back to this from the government parties. We'll all come back to that. We have clearly signaled that this should be done in connection with the right to justice. I don't think it's necessary to be confronted with this several times now. We have also, in the previous debate in this spring session, made it clear that yes, we will also come back in a different context to reducing expenditure, for example. know that you should look at the Finnish model with regard to legal fees. We have expressed this in such a way that it should be clear and clear that for the Christian People's Party, individual matters are about something more than turning it all into a matter of combating poverty. We see the problem, and we want to do something about it. But we'll take it up in those contexts where it's natural to take them up. We have signaled this from this pulpit both today and before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1508	This was a useful clarification, both from committee leader Helleland and from the representative Marthinsen, I think. It fully reveals, as I was also in the midst of it, that the Christian People's Party is making the fight against the differences and the fight against poverty in Norway largely a matter of collection. To the right, it makes a great deal of a question of charity. Both features, both measures, have in common that they only come in when it is too late, when the damage has first occurred. I have also claimed it in many other issues here in the Storting: I believe that balancing differences between people is a marshalling ground which at least we from the Workers' Party have with us in all matters, whether it concerns housing policy, questions about, like here, how to set up and establish new rules on how to deal with matters in the courts, or on issues of working life, etc. That's what I think is the difference between a red-green government and the government we have today, that you just see this element in all the cases. It is a little strange to hear that while it is now clearly said that this is not part of the dispute law and the rules we are now dealing with, we are told in the next sentence that we should come back to this, and that we should reconsider this. This is not a new proposal, which has been thrown into an election campaign, as the representative of Greece wrongly said. These are proposals such as: was also promoted last year, as the Workers' Party has been for a long time, and which has also been widely known. I must say that I warmly welcome the Minister of Justice to conduct an election campaign. But I hope that election campaign doesn't mean that you shouldn't answer for yourself, and that you have to apply the kind of characteristics that we heard instead of socialist dogmas. Then we should be able to use a lot of strange things, we're also going to be able to use other people. But election campaigns should not mean that we should not be able to answer the questions raised. That is what characterises the government parties today, including the Minister of Justice, that they do not answer those questions. The Minister of Justice has no good, real arguments against the actions that are being promoted and that we want to reduce, among other things. the legal expenses. We have not been given an answer as to why it is so in Norway that in the most intrusive cases, namely criminal cases, there are far more strict rules of procedure than we have proposed. You have a fixed hourly rate. And you also have in some cases, those that start in the district court, a fixed number of hours you're allowed to bill. What is it that makes it possible in the most intrusive cases to operate with socialist dogmas, while you can't do that in the matters that we've pointed out? We have also not received a reply on how the Minister of Justice assesses international experience, among others. from Germany and the Netherlands. I think I know why he doesn't answer. That's because the experience is pretty good. Now, when we're going to go into an election campaign to fight both poverty and to do something about the differences between people, I hope we're going to do real action in many disciplines, and then we're going to get away from the voters the experience it's supposed to be, to hear that we politicians are going to give clear answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1525	I think it has been made clear through various contributions from the members of the government parties how we intend to address this matter. Today, we have a historic debate on a dispute law that has been patched up since 1915. Now we get a new law. So the representative of Storberget uses the opportunity to turn this into a matter of poverty reduction. I would point out that, as the first government, this government has put forward a package to combat poverty. It has allocated over DKK 3 billion and has consistently set up a work line where it is important to combat poverty by creating jobs, by getting people to work. So the representative Storberget, probably still a member of the Norwegian Lawyers' Association, uses this case as a crusade to get through his special proposal on the maximum price for legal leave. The interesting thing is that in this case we have once again been illustrated that the red-green alliance cracks. The representative Arnstad had a good, well-balanced post, in which she clearly told me that the proposals that the representative Storberget has promoted together with SV, she will go against. I'm looking forward to the continuation. I think people should be aware of what's about to happen. The representative of Storberget has been at the forefront of a campaign against poverty reduction related to civil matters. So there are things that both poor and rich can be involved. There is no one in this room who has distanced or said that we don't want to look at cost-related challenges. But I think it is a pity that the representative of Storberget is turning the whole issue into a debate on his special proposal on the maximum price, when the whole dispute settlement and dispute settlement process is permeated by proposals that will make it more efficient, that will simplify, and that will make it easier for people to get right. That is why I think it is a derailment of the debate, a regrettable derailment that the representative of Storberget must now end with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1537	It was clear that the representative Storberget did not take election mode so literally that I would stop being factual. No, I'm not going to stop being that, but I have to be allowed to be ideologically clear. I have made a settlement that the representative Storberget outside this room has ordered a general maximum price. Today, however, several proposals have been modified. And then they asked, should we look at the very specific paragraph early in the dispute law? Yes, I have said that when I have been asked about it. Of course we have to look at it. But it's something quite different than a general max. There is, of course, one debate for one purpose and another debate here, and I must be allowed to comment on it when I stand on the floor of the European Parliament. At the same time, of course, we're concerned that things should be fair. I will dare to claim that making sure that things are solved by mediation, that things are solved as easily as possible, is a powerful grip. And one of the most powerful, if you're going to be concerned with Difference Norway first, is that group action, which is dealt with here, is that consumers, who can often be teased with because they are all very small, can become heavy together. It's a very heavy grip, as the Storting can actually be proud that we're implementing, and that's just making sure to those who have a lot of power, that those who have a lot less power together weigh a lot. It's almost a socialist principle, that's like Vømmol Players' Team, that you don't weigh that much, but together you weigh a lot of tons. It is the ideology of the group action, and it has been widely implemented. And then government parties promoting such a principle should have become socialists! No, we haven't! But we are concerned that consumers, citizens of a market, must have counterpower against strong power in order to survive. Is it part of the fight against social skepticism? Yes, of course it is! It's giving justice to people, so they can do better. And then, in all other contexts, whether it's housing policy, labour market reforms and the social security system, which have been dealt with in the Stortinget, we're going to come back enough to how we're going to make sure that people get better chances, including the most vulnerable in society. We have plenty of opportunity to do that. When I get engaged, it's because we're sitting with a historical reform, and then we take out a little bit of it. I had expected the Workers' Party's representatives here today to make a jubilant statement on the Group's case, that they would almost welcome the members of the government parties in some socialist alliance, e.g. But according to my ideology, power given to many who oppose the few who have very much power is a powerful grip. If we're going to have a dry end, I'd like to say that I'm looking forward with excitement to the election campaign that's being held between the representative Storberget and the representative Arnstad in relation to the Santa Claus Act, not to talk about lawyer awards. It can be profoundly fascinating within what you call the red-red government option.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1550	The Christian People's Party is firmly anchored in the positions we have taken on this matter in relation to the attack by the representative of the Greatberg in terms of poverty reduction. I believe that the whole of the product that the Committee on Legal Affairs has delivered, and which is to be voted on today, in form and content, is a very strong and good argument for safeguarding the weak party in a conflict. When Knut Storberget makes a large number of one point that goes on the management of payroll costs, he actually overwhelms and obscures all the comments that Storberget and the Workers' Party have joined that are just about to take action to take care of the weak party. So he is in danger of undermining the importance of his own consent to all the comments that this bill contains and focuses on in relation to giving the right. I hope that in this one case he does not undermine the importance of the support he has given in all the comments that actually carry this matter through and give it the weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1557	Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1560	I think that there is a lot to it in the government party's argument. At one moment, we hear from the representative of Greece that this is not a law dealing with combating differences or poverty. And then the Minister of Justice comes up and makes a flaming statement that group action is just like that. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice. That's what I said in my main post, too. This is a good reform. But what about all those who do not come under group action – all those who have individual issues related to home, children and work? In general, there is no group case around it. That's where the Workers' Party will go. I also record – at the end of such an important debate – that the Minister of Justice has been asked three to four times concretely whether there is almost a socialist violation of criminal law today that we have a very rigid system for costs of action – both in terms of time and price. Why can you use it there, when you don't want to use it in the other cases? We have not received an answer to that, nor have we received an answer to the question of international experience. It suggests that we need to go into the debate that lies ahead of us, and just look at what experience is like in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1569	For Stortinget is no cause too small and no matter how big. So here we have a big and important thing, but when the consensus is quite big, we get to fight about the small details. The details are important, especially for the people covered by them. I see that we initially have a debate about the desire to make things cheaper and more efficient. There's, as it's been said before, a lot of what permeates what the Greatness now decides. I think you might have a lot to earn by letting the law work, and see how it works, before you pick up all sorts of things on the cart and hope that it's going well. Perhaps it is not appropriate to agree to a price with the lawyer when you are in mediation, and that there is a different price when the case is brought, so that someone has different motives for legal proceedings than to get the dispute settled. I am pleased with the answer from the Council of State that he wants the law to come into force as early as possible, thus giving the opportunity for group search and the efficiency we are now trying to achieve. I see clearly the point that players need to receive the necessary training and information, but it might also be appropriate to make a concrete start at an early stage, for example on a date. 1 January 2007 or 1 July 2007, so that the actors know what they have to do with. It is well in the case of court actors, as with other actors, that training and the extra courses are rarely taken before you have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1580	Trond Helleland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1583	Of course, the government parties are collapsing. Of course, we have common comments, we have common proposals, and we have common votes. The Great Mountain doesn't have to draw it into doubt. We agree that group action is a very important part of this proposal. When I say poverty reduction is not the main purpose of the dispute law, I think Storberget really agrees with me. But I note that the Workers' Party and SV are promoting four proposals, and that the Senter Party has signaled that they will vote against three of them. I'm not in any doubt as to where the gap is greatest, and who has the greatest challenges here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1592	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1608	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1619	Values such as democracy, legal certainty, privacy and security are central to our feeling that we are living in a free and secure society. A low level of social monitoring gives a sense of freedom. We all need to be able to withdraw to a protected sphere together with our closest ones, where we can be ourselves and make decisions without being observed or monitored. At the same time, we want to be sure that we and our neighbours are not exposed to serious crime and acts of terrorism. Between these considerations there may be conflict, and as politicians we must make difficult choices. During the examination of the present proposal on new police methods and the extended scope of coercive measures, we are faced with important choices. In the view of the majority, the law provides for difficult balances between privacy and the need to combat crime effectively, which imposes great demands on the more detailed design of the law. We have seen it as particularly important to come up with solutions that balance society's need to avert and detect crime effectively in terms of citizens' legal certainty and privacy. In our view, we have succeeded. The government's proposal was balanced and good, and with the small clarifications the majority has done after a good cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, we have achieved a result that ensures both privacy and fundamental legal certainty while strengthening the fight against the most serious criminal threats. We all have to admit that we are facing a completely different threat picture today than we did a few years ago. Norway’s security is no longer threatened by other countries. The world's democratic states are facing entirely other threats, where organised criminals and terrorist groups fight civil society, spread fear and repressiveness, and threaten to hit important social structures. It is a reality that criminals today have ‘freedoms’ that make police work to combat serious crime difficult. The ban on space listening has enabled criminal environments to adapt their communication. These are closed environments with a harsh internal justice system, where it is impossible for the police to search or infiltrate without jeopardizing their own lives. The legislative changes improve and strengthen the law and enable governments to better meet the challenges that crime development faces society. Police and the police security service, the PST, are now given the opportunity to provide greater protection against the most brutal and serious crimes organised criminal networks are likely to carry out. We are facing ruthless opponents who have planned, and will continue to plan, terrorist attacks to kill as many civilians as possible. They have the resources and the will to do this over and over again, with their own lives working. We have taken the consequences of this and are taking responsibility for the increased need for new tools for protecting law-abiding Norwegian citizens. The legislative proposals are based on a strong Norwegian legal tradition, the methods are regulated under strict conditions, have judicial control and are verifiable. The majority have agreed to the proposal to extend the scope of the investigation methods. The aim is to improve the police’s ability to obtain information in the course of investigations before a serious criminal offence has been committed, with a view to preventing it from being carried out. This is often difficult today, since the main means of investigation — the criminal law enforcement instruments such as search or communication control — can only be used when there is a cause to suspect that someone has already committed a serious criminal offence. The new methods and the possibility to use coercive substances for the purpose of reversing will only apply to a few types of crime. The bill has chosen to narrow it down to the most serious criminal acts: terrorism, killings, serious drug crimes and serious crime as part of organised crime. The law imposes strict requirements on proportionality and materiality to be assessed by the Court of Justice and, of course, the fundamental guarantee of legal certainty; both the police and the PST have to go to court for permission to use coercive measures. Furthermore, the law is clear that the more coercive a coercive is, the more stringent the requirements are made for both probability, proportionality and materiality. Police security services have a particularly important role to play in preventing and investigating acts that threaten the security of society. We all have expectations that the PST will detect and prevent threats to social security – before they are realised. The size has an important task of ensuring the service working conditions and methods that make this possible. However, let me stress that the law that is designed and the methods for which it is opened must not be suitable to reduce the confidence of the PST. In particular, it is the proposal on the access of the PST to the use of coercive substances for prevention purposes that has raised a societal debate after the legislative proposal was presented. In my view, this is an important and necessary debate, but it is in place to nuance the picture somewhat and, not least, look at what alternative solutions could have been chosen. Our response to a terrorist action on Norwegian soil has not yet been put to the test. I'm glad that the bill is being promoted at a time when we can find a good balance. It is an overall objective that we can both safeguard privacy and at the same time be open to instruments that can help prevent us as a nation from experiencing a terrorist act in close proximity. The government’s legislative proposal means that the PST should also be able to use coercive measures for preventive purposes in matters relating to terrorist acts, illegal intelligence activities and the most serious forms of violence and threats against representatives of our Supreme State Authority. The possibility for PST to use coercive substances in prevention activities is a limited complement to the occasion when the law is adopted for PST to use coercive measures to avert investigation. The prevention trail shall be a last instrument in the prevention of very serious crimes committed by closed and professional environments. It is important that the Norwegian security service is not less rusted than our neighbouring countries. This could lead to Norway becoming a suitable place to plan terrorist acts that could be carried out on Norwegian soil and in other countries. The security services of other European countries have access to methods to prevent terrorism, and in recent years a number of planned terrorist attacks have been averted. The general rule is that coercive agents are to be used for investigation purposes; the prevention track is a narrow safety valve for PST. The investigation has been clearly informed that in the cases where the PST is in the choice between inside and outside the investigation, the investigation shall be selected. Instead of giving access to the use of coercive substances for prevention purposes, we could have chosen to go much further in criminalising acts that are far from the socially damaging act but that can serve as a preparation for later and more serious acts. Such preparatory actions are less punishable than the criminal offence being prepared. In addition, the chances of the perpetrator changing are still present. Very many preparatory actions in the outside cannot be separated from the preparation of day-to-day and innocent activities. The purchase of an ax may be part of the preparation of a terrorist act, but is most likely to be prepared for maintenance. In this case, the limit between the legal and the criminal had to be drawn on the basis of the thoughts of the perpetrator when he bought the ax in the example above. To make the criminal's limit so much dependent on the anger of the perpetrator of criminal offences is strongly opposed to the fact that such acts should be criminalised. The price the Norwegian people have to pay that day PST has failed to prevent a terrorist act because they did not have sufficient access to methods is higher than we can ever imagine. Finally, I would like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1662	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report and for a good job in Stortinget. I believe – and the Labour Party also believes – that the changes that have come are useful and very good and help to take account of them in both directions. The most important thing for us in the Workers' Party has been the question of the ability of the PST to use methods for prevention purposes, and so it has really been decided here by the majority to tighten up in relation to what the Government has proposed and to set requirements in relation to the basis for investigation. There must be clear criteria; there must be objective points of view, it must be objective and it must also be proportionate. Here the government has said in the proposition on page 132 that one possibility is that you set such a criterion, that it has to be a reason. But at the same time, the Government says in the proposition that ‘an additional group on the use of methods for prevention purposes would have little autonomy’. I understand that there is a great difference between what the Government has meant, and what the majority now believe – but does the case-rapporteur agree that the rule chosen by the majority will have little independent meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1667	The representative of Storberget knows as well as I do that the changes that have been made have been made in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice; there are clarifications. We heard in the previous case that the representative Gjul said that it was the Council of State who had put the Workers' Party on the mind, and in this case I would also say that it is the Council of State that has led the changes and clarifications in the pen, in the light of questions raised by the Stortinget. This is a clarification that has made further clear what the Government thought. In this respect, it has good contents in relation to the tight frame underpinning the use of this method by the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1672	I want to challenge the case rapporteur from the Right on a problem issue that, in any case, I believe is relevant. In a majority comment, it says, among other things: (see section 4.4) ‘shows that data-reading could be a useful tool in the police’s efforts to avert and punish particularly serious organised crime, and that it is also expressed by a majority of the hearing bodies’. It would have been interesting to hear what kind of reason the representative Schou has for not going in for data reading. In fact, communication control, space listening and the identification of mobile telephone systems have been opened, but we do not need to find out what is being communicated between different computers. If it is that information is necessary to prevent any terrorist attacks, why do you not want to support data reading?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1682	We don't want to, because if we're as fast as the Progress Party wants to be, we risk giving the cards to those we really want to reveal. The Police Methodology Committee has said that it is desirable to introduce rules in relation to precisely what is going on on data-reading, but it has been said in the hearing that it would be wise to consider this in more detail. I would like to draw the representative’s attention to page 39 of the setting. It says: ‘The hearing leaves a clear impression that this is an investigation method that needs to be further assessed.’ The Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice also say that here there is a reason to go one more round, put down a sample and go to the depths of this. The Committee also states in its opinion that: ‘have to take into account that the methods shall remain effective and that the tactical considerations underlying their use shall not become known to those against whom it is appropriate to use such methods’. It makes it a good idea to go deep and let a data sample look at it. I think the representative here might be a bit quick, and then quickly we won't be destroying the good intentions of this use.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1699	I will also give honor to the representative Schous handling this matter. It's quite obvious to SV that the Right, and the Workers' Party in particular, have contributed to tightening up in several areas what the Government, with the left-hand man Odd Einar Dørum in the head, has presented. Then I noticed that the representative Schou on 2 June rejected NTB's refusal to tighten up, and that this has been done in consultation with the Ministry of Justice. Schou called it preparation, and said that the government has put the Storting on the idea of these changes. I just have to ask whether it is not that it is quite common for the department to respond to the Stortinget when the Stortinget asks for legal assistance, if not simply this is about legal assistance, where the department actually has a duty to respond to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1706	I would like to say to Mr Thorkildsen that, of course, both the Department and the Minister of Justice respond. It is very gratifying that in this matter there is a broad majority of the Government's proposals, with some minor clarifications, and these changes in the bill have been made in close cooperation with the Minister of Justice. Even the Minister of Justice has outlined these legislative changes in the correspondence with the Committee. So I think it might be a good idea to say that we thought ourselves, we wrote ourselves and we answered ourselves, because that's not how it is in this case. It was the Minister of Justice, at the request of the Committee, who outlined the legislative changes in the correspondence with the Committee. I call it still clarifications, for there are no material changes in what was the good and tight frame of mind in this serious matter, by opening up two new methods both for the police and for the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1717	In a legal state such as Norway, it is important that the police have instruments to prevent and prevent crime. This must constantly be balanced against people's demands for freedom and the absence of interference from the authorities. Norwegian legal tradition has been detention in the use of methods. Good police work has proved effective in combating crime. Organized crime has become more brutal and more professional in recent years. The grey areas between legal and illegal activities are increasing, the environment is more closed, and we see a more professional and closer cross-border cooperation. This, combined with terrorist attacks against Western targets both in New York, Bali and Madrid, calls for new methods. The Workers' Party believes that the Government's original proposal went too far in allowing interventional methods. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to ensure greater legal certainty and privacy. When giving new tools to both the general police and the police security service in the fight against the new, brutally organised crime, it is important that this be done within the framework of the rule of law. Ensuring legal certainty and privacy does not mean that the police are less able to do the necessary job, but that unnecessary use and abuse of such methods is prevented. There shall be very serious reasons for opening up space listening, because it is invasive when the police are allowed to monitor private homes, and this may affect innocent third parties. Organized crime has changed negatively in recent years, and the threat of terrorism has increased to some extent. This, in conjunction with the fact that the police cannot control this by already authorised means, makes it necessary to allow the use of space listening. Today's ban on space listening creates havens for criminals who can communicate without fear of being intercepted. The working party is concerned that the rules on space listening shall only be applied in limited areas and under strict control. The government's proposal went too far in allowing surveillance that could affect innocent third parties, and therefore the majority of the population has stepped in here. The police security service is allowed to use methods in a preventive manner, but under significantly stricter conditions than the Government had provided. The basic condition for the prevention of coercive substances has been reinforced, so that there is now a need to investigate whether someone is preparing a specific action. Such a ground would, according to Ot.prp. No 60 – which we are dealing with today – page 132, first column, «is so close to the conditions for carrying out investigations under the first paragraph of Section 224 of the Criminal Procedures Act that an additional group on the use of methods for prevention purposes would have little independent significance». This is also, as the rapporteur said, a very limited supplement and a narrow safety valve. Yes, because it will be of less importance, and in practice it will only be relevant in cases where the current preparatory action is not criminalised. In cases where the preparatory action is criminalised, there is no less a basis for carrying out investigations than the use of prevention. From the Workers' Party's point of view, it is quite obvious that the PST must choose the investigation trail here. When it comes to providing the police with extended powers and new methods, it is particularly important that legal certainty is adequately ensured vis-à-vis the suspect. In the current matters of communication control, the lawyer is appointed who is responsible for the interests of the suspect, but is not allowed to contact the suspect. We are well aware that the practice of accessing these lawyers' documents is very different in the courts of the country. The working party believes that it is essential for the lawyer to be able to do his job, that he has access to all documents. It is also important to ensure that the coercive measures are legally used to prevent their misuse. We are therefore pleased that a unanimous committee is proposing to amend the law, so that lawyers can access all the file using secret coercive measures. I want to commend the case rapporteur for the way she has dealt with this matter. Government parties have been very attentive to finding good solutions. They could have chosen the Progress Party as a collaborative partner, but then the result would also have gone towards more use of methods and even more monitoring. What makes this case slightly alarming is that the Left Party, which, above all, has fought for people's legal security and privacy, is now being reproved by the majority of the population for having gone too far in allowing the police to use interventional methods. On their own way home, they feel that a party that is more right takes better care of these considerations than they do seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1753	I have to say that I am very much responding to Mr Gjul's comments on repatriation and one on the other, when, in fact, it is the Minister of Justice and the Ministry who has responded to the clarifications submitted to the Minister of Justice by the Committee. I'm very happy that the government has actually got through on its line, and that's what's at stake here, both in the choice of main tracks and what's here of good envelopes. What I'm asking is, in particular, why the Workers' Party is going so hard when you've actually joined in on everything that the Government and government parties have put forward, and there are only a few clarifications. Then I wonder, are you really afraid to stand up for what you've been involved in? That's the one. The second is that once again we see that there is a division between the possible government partners, and I could imagine getting a comment on whether that also upsets the representative Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1762	I will state that in this case there has been an entirely ordinary and ordinary procedure. When the matter has come to Stortinget, it is the Stortinget who decides, not the Minister of Justice. It is the Stortinget who has made the changes on a proposal from the Minister of Justice. In fact, Stortinget can do that, whether the Minister of Justice gives his permission or not. The Labour Party fully supports the proposal that is now on the table, but we are pleased that some significant changes have actually been made. We are pleased that we have received these changes, including: that access to space listening has become more restrictive than the Government’s proposal, that a more comprehensive evaluation be made, that the threshold for the use of mitigation methods has been raised, that judicial control of the general use of coercive measures by the police has been raised, that the use of prevention methods by the police service is being stepped up, that there is clear evidence that there is no possibility of monitoring environments on a political basis, and that control of the use of preventive methods by the PST is increased by strengthening judicial control, the EEA Committee and the National Attorney General’s Office’s access to control and methodology. In the area by area we have got a tightening, and that is very much appreciated by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1769	It was interesting to hear the representative Gjul's review of the Workers' Party's position in this matter, not least of the considerations that have been made regarding the methodology, tightening of judicial control and the leadership that apply to the PST and otherwise. I think that is good, because it says something about the value base that the Workers' Party has had in this case. I heard that the representative Storberget in the previous case was concerned with clear answers. I want to challenge the representative Gjul for a proposal from the Progress Party to ask network suppliers and network providers to store traffic data for 12 months. I'm recording that the Workers' Party is going to oppose this. It would have been interesting to hear the background to that, not least in the light of something that the representative Gjul had to say, that this type of crime is cross-border. At that time, it might have been reasonable to have equivalent legislation that our neighbouring countries have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1776	The representative of Ellingsen calls for the value base of the Workers' Party and the history behind these matters, among others. related to the Police Security Service. Yes, there's actually a history, a history that the Workers' Party has in terms of monitoring, that we're not proud of, and that makes us not want to experience something like that happening again. When we now give the Police Security Service extended powers to, among other things, to be able to avert and prevent serious crime, it is particularly important that we have a thorough judicial review and that these powers do not go too far. Because there's something we're going to avoid for everything in the world, is that we're getting a new surveillance and listening scandal in 10 years. That is why we are very pleased with the proposal that is now on the table, which we believe takes care of those concerns and can prevent, so that we do not get back into such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1785	For one who has been on the side of the processes that have taken place between the Workers' Party and the government parties in this matter, this seems strange. Either I imagine that the representative of Schou has been unconscious at the moment, or I think that here one is trying to cover the fact that Dørum has been defeated in some of these cases, and that the committee has had to intervene to clarify what should really be the basis for using the methods that are now to be used. The representative Schou consistently refers to the changes as ‘preparations’ and says that they are not material. For the sake of order, let me state that the changes that have been made vis-à-vis the Government's proposals, among other things. means that the requirement of suspicion for the use of methods is raised for renunciation, that lawyers are given much better access to documents, that the facilities for access to space listening are tightened, that judicial control is ensured to a greater extent, and that the conditions for access of the PST to the use of preventive methods are tightened. Does the representative Gjul agree that these are not material changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1792	The President would point out that ‘unconscious at the moment’ is not a relevant use of language in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1795	To the question asked by the representative, Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen, it is really just to answer: Yes, there are material changes in relation to what the Government originally proposed. We are very pleased about that. Among other things, there are material changes in relation to the tightening of the scope of the PST for implementing preventive measures. I myself read a quotation from the document submitted by the Government, and if we add to the words ‘reason for examining’, the proposal will have little autonomy, except in cases where there has been no criminalisation of preparatory actions. So yes, it has a material significance, and the Workers' Party is very happy about it. It may seem that the government parties will try to cover the fact that in this case they have over-tested the Left Party, which has been the largest guarantor of legal certainty and privacy. It's actually lost at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower.ana.ud59e1804	The cord shift is over. We have passed the scheduled time for this morning's meeting.
