ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e31	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e49	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e68	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e87	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e106	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e125	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e144	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e163	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e181	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e200	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e219	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e235	The first speaker is Berit Brørby. – No, the rapporteur on the matter is André Oktay Dahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e238	I expect it was a coincidence that I was confused with the representative of Brørby! This has been a difficult matter to be the case rapporteur for. The main reason for this is that there have been so many strong and not least understandable feelings in turn, and that for so many years. An entire coastal community was affected when the fishing vessel «Utvik Senior» was listed on 17 February 1978 on its way home from the Great Depth fishing field towards land in Steinfjord at Senja in Troms. The ship had a crew of nine men, all of whom died. The first commission of inquiry did a comprehensive job, even though we now have a conclusion that is the very opposite, namely that the loss was not due to misnavigation. But no matter how you turn it around, they left it as severely offensive that the crew, after the first commission of inquiry, was supposed to have exhibited poor seafarers. In all years it was the main motivation for a re-examination, and in the wake of the Focal Point programme on the location of the main engine in April 2002, a new study commission was set up, which issued its report last April. An important starting point for the Committee's work has been to seek peace by taking due account of the needs of the survivors to clarify what happened, while at the same time not allowing themselves to tear down completely and take over good fish all the claims made in relation to the handling of the case in due time by both the authorities and the first Commission of Inquiry. In the course of the examination, several members of the Committee have had informal meetings with relatives and others, and some have responded to this in their comments. That is why I would like to stress, for the sake of order, that everyone who has happened to belong to the control committee and has met, for example. has left, has done so as a single representative and not on behalf of the Committee as such. At the same time, it is important to be told that it has given the survivors the opportunity to come and present their views, has been important in relation to the information on the matter, because this case is not particularly suitable for reading documents only. The Committee notes that the second investigation commission on the loss of the ship brought clarity to one of the main appeal points they had left after the first, namely that the cause of the failure of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ was not due to misnavigation. We assume that with this, the crew will be completely cleaned. The Committee is also concerned about the fact that the submission allows the Ministry of Justice to be more critical in its time and to listen more to the survivors. As we see it, the ministry has admitted significant system failure. Questions may also be asked whether the Ministry should have re-appointed the Commission as early as 1979, but the Committee does not consider that there has been any deliberate deception of the public. The setting-up of a new investigation commission has, as I said, been the main focus of the survivors and the coastal population ever since their death, until relatively recent issues were raised about the allocation of allowances, about possible incorrect shortening of the insurance settlement and about the question of compensation on an objective basis. The Committee does not take any of these questions into consideration in this section. They belong elsewhere than in this hall. We are confident that this will be properly addressed by the Council of State within the framework of the Act of Participation, but we have given a small signal from the Committee that the situation of the survivors has been taken into account. This is to the extent that open doors are opened in relation to the discretion of the legislative council, but the committee found it appropriate to make this small recommendation. With regard to the SV’s specific comment on this point, I leave to SV first of all to explain its own comment, which can be interpreted as pre-empting the procedure to be carried out in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. In any event, the majority of the Committee considers that the issue of the allocation of new allowances and insurance settlements cannot, in any case, be linked and must be dealt with properly in the ministry, where the specificities of this specific case are to be balanced against the consequences of a given course of action – as outlined by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee. Nor has the Committee considered the question of any compensation on an objective basis, which has been promoted to the Ministry of Justice. The claim is based, not on the State’s being a victim of violence, but on the fact that the State has an objective responsibility for an intentionally inadequate investigational job. A broad majority of the Committee relies on the assessments made by the Ministry of the Legal Complications raised by this issue, including the question of possible precedent and significance for other matters. We therefore, of course, do not take a concrete view of the statements made by Robertsen's law firm to the Department or of what has been explained in the Ministry of Justice's letter to the Committee, among others. because we do not want to prejudge any legal action. In any case, it is clear to the Committee that the assessment of whether the State is to pay this type of compensation to the survivors after the loss of the ‘Effective seniority’ is difficult to equate with the insurance claims made after, for example, The ‘Scandinavian Star’ and ‘Sleipner’ accidents. These provide limited guidance in this matter. Despite the fact that no legal basis for substitution is currently being established, the entire Committee takes the view that, despite clear warnings and requests for re-examination by the survivors, survivors have been subjected to an additional burden by reaching a false conclusion in 1978/1979. The case has been a test for several of the survivors who lost their very closest. The question of how to carry out a form of cheap substitutes is the only point in which the majority of the Committee and the large minority of the Committee appear to have widely differing views. The apparent big disagreement has also been promoted in the public debate. When I say apparently, it's because both the majority and the minority necessarily have to go in for some form of suggested cheapness compensation. In a sense, the word ‘feeling’ is a somewhat misleading word, as it is not a replacement in the proper sense of the word, namely a legal right. Billing compensation means the possibility to allocate a sum of money after a reasonable assessment where there are no legal requirements. When I say that there is only a seemingly large disagreement between the majority and the minority, it is because the name to be established, and the compensation mechanism that the majority wants the Government to investigate, must necessarily result in some form of enhanced cheapness compensation, as the Storting, for the aforementioned reasons and in principle, here today does not conclude that there is any legal basis for providing compensation in the normal sense of the word. The government gets the case back and has to propose how this is to be handled, but it is the Storting that sits on the money bag and has to provide the leaders for this. The right and Christian People's Party is of the opinion that it would have been more practical to take advantage of the scope of the previous treatment of the Stortinge against who could be covered by the established LFS and that it would have been more flexible and hindered by the postponement of the majority proposal in reality. We are concerned that the survivors should avoid unnecessary red tape, so we perceive it so that a specific mention may not be appropriate, by establishing a new regime that involves a postponement. Since the majority and the minority actually agree at the same time, as I see it, that some form of suggested cheapness compensation is going to happen, I am not going to spend more time polishing against the majority proposal now, except to suggest that the minority proposal might lead to a somewhat faster treatment of the claims of the survivors, and then with the necessary coronation of how other groups of injured parties have dealt with their claims. This case is unique, but at the same time the feature of the discussion around publicly appointed investigation commissions has been that their findings and assessments have been questioned, whether in this case, the ‘Western’ crash or the Mehamn accident. The Committee shall be divided into a majority and a minority as regards the question of the participation of the deceased in such a type of commission. However, both the majority and the minority, with somewhat different wording, agree that relatives, survivors or others should somehow be able to be represented in future investigation commissions. In many cases, there is a great deal of information to be provided, and research work needs to be organised to provide them with the necessary information, which can also increase confidence in the work of the investigation commissions. This consideration may also turn the other way around. It is important that study commissions are seen as objective, haile and independent in relation to opinions on, for example: liability. In this area, it is not only useful, but necessary to compare with the organisation of judicial proceedings, as the same considerations need to be taken into account here. Although the majority does not refer directly to the reservations given in e.g.: The law of justice, as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party do, I assume that the majority have also written these behind the ear, albeit not with written consent to our remarks. If I have misinterpreted what I really perceive as a real consensus, or at least not a big disagreement, I ask to be corrected afterwards. The conclusions reached at the end of the second investigation commission are mountainous. So that's what the government has built on in its big message. With the examination of the quota issue and the insurance issue in the department and finally a suggested form of cheapness compensation or special compensation scheme, as some people call it, I hope that a difficult case can get its end to the seventh and last. The question of compensation on an objective basis should not be dealt with by the Storting and should not do so. Finally, for the sake of order, while I remember it, I also take up the minority proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e284	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e287	I am not going to spend time commenting on the strange undertone that was in Dahl's post. To that I think the matter is actually too serious. It is a cross-thinking that today the Stortinge treats support for the survivors after the tragic loss of the ‘Evelopment Senior’, which occurred 27 years ago. The need for two investigation commissions to clarify that the loss was not due to misnavigation, but quite different circumstances, is an important reminder that we should not readily accept the conclusions presented by the experts. The experience of this accident as well as the Mehamn accident and the ‘Western’ accident shows that relatives and other interested parties have important contributions to clarify and understand this type of incident. The working party is therefore concerned that interested persons, whether in the case of survivors, relatives or others with special knowledge, are to be represented in future investigation commissions. This is also the case in the permanent commissions, such as: The Aerodrome Commission, which should be supplemented during the treatment of serious accidents by the case-by-case concerned. I am pleased with the agreement that they will be entitled to compensation after “Evolved Senior”. However, there has been a discussion as to whether the cheap substitute scheme should apply or whether a separate compensation scheme should be established. On the part of the Workers' Party, I would like to stress that we want to maintain the cheap compensation system as it works today, namely that it only covers compensation for those directly affected and not the relatives. We need such a system, a safety valve for people who are being mistreated by the administration, and do not want to change this. In addition, the Labour Party considers that the relatives will be best served by the establishment of a separate compensation scheme. Based on the majority of the population – Labour Party, Progress Party and SVs – proposals for decisions, we assume that the Government immediately reduces its own name to assess the amount of compensation and who is to be covered by the scheme. I ask the Council of State to confirm that this will happen. As regards the question of curtailment in the insurance sum and the granting of a new concession, I refer to the joint comment of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, where there is also a Right, and assume that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast takes into account the particular circumstances of this particular case in its assessment. Otherwise, I refer to the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e302	: It has been more than 27 years since the fishing vessel ‘Development Senior’ was listed, with the tragic outcome of the death of all nine-person crew. The investigation commission, which was reduced to clarify the cause of the loss, concluded that the loss was probably due to misnavigation and grounding. The survivors after the loss could never accept this conclusion. With their knowledge of the waters and fisheries, as well as the assessments of the vessel inspector in Tromsø around the shipwreck, it was quite natural that the survivors and the coastal population could not rely on the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. It's obviously critical, as I see it, that the authorities were not willing to resume the investigations based on the uncertainty that existed among the survivors and the coastal population after the work of the first commission of inquiry. In 2002, over 20 years later, the survivors had still not given up hope of clarifying the actual course of events. The public had obviously failed, and there was a need for help from journalists in the NRC to document the fact that they had been left behind for 20 years, namely that the crash could not be caused by misnavigation, but most likely by a collision with another ship. It is expedient to ascertain the long-standing absence and unwillingness of the authorities to present facts in this case. However, it is worth noting that both the ministry and the committee are going very far in regretting the handling of the matter that took place in the years immediately after the loss. The second investigation commission is clear that the loss may not be caused by misnavigation and grounding. It is therefore obvious that this implies a full cleaning of the crew. There is no doubt that the survivors have been right in their statements all these years, and I hope and believe that this conclusion can help to bring about peace on this matter, which has obviously been a tremendous burden on the survivors. We cannot therefore see any need to start a new examination of this matter by some members of the Committee. We find it difficult to see that a new investigation can produce conclusions different from those of the last Commission. We believe it would be most appropriate for all parties that this matter can now be brought to a worthwhile conclusion and that justice can be achieved that everyone can see. We are therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee decides that a separate compensation system should be established for the survivors after the loss. The system of credit compensation is not intended to be a compensation scheme for the survivors of accidents and infringements, and it is therefore quite right in my view that a separate compensation scheme should be established for this very special case. It is important to consider all aspects of the replacement issue, including the issue of fish quotas. And it is important that the survivors are properly compensated based on the losses and burdens they have suffered as a result of the loss and mistreatment of this by the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e315	Skuta «Utvik Senior» listed 17 February 1978 on the way home from the Great Depth fishing field at Senja in Troms. The ‘Development Senior’ was a good, modern boat with a very skilled skipper and a trained crew that was pocket-known in the area. The ship had a crew of nine men. Everyone died at the crash. The loss occurred more than 27 years ago. The first Commission report concluded that the loss was due to misnavigation and ice-cream on the boat. This conclusion was met with shock from both the community, the fishermen and the survivors. Since then, the survivors and the community have waged a tough and long fight for cleaning and uplifting for the crew. This matter has been a heavy burden and arduous for the survivors, for the relatives, for the community and for the coastal community, for the rest. We are dealing with this matter today because the survivors have never given up – not because of the work of the authorities, but despite it. Today, I want to commend the survivors, the support group, the community and Coast Norway, who have been leading this matter all these years. After the first conclusion, they even started searching. In 1979, these results were achieved: On an open sea plain 35 metres deep and far from the nearest grounds, they found with the mini submarine "Develop Senior"’s steel, steering and lifeboat hatch arm. Years later, the engine was found. The ‘Early Development’ had been lost in the open sea. The survivors demanded reopening of the case, without results. The Ministry of Justice received a written complaint from the father of one of the victims where he referred to the map and found that there was no underwater cutting in the area where they had done their findings. It didn't lead to any reactions. A reopening of the case at that time could lead to a revealed weakness in the monitoring and failure of the alert procedures. Unlucky aspects of the work of the first Commission could be identified and the conclusions reached. It was possible to detect the place of the accident. And not least, it would ease the burden on the survivors. This case concerns the responsibility of the State as a result of the erroneous conclusions of the investigation of the Development Senior Loss. But the matter has a range far beyond this. It is also about the credibility of the investigative institution and the confidence of the Storting as a supervisory body over the exercise of state power. Today, a joint committee states that the ship was not due to misnavigation or ice-off of the boat. The Committee’s opinion concludes that this implies a complete cleaning of the crew. This case and other cases show that we need better investigation of major accidents. There are major weaknesses in today's system of investigation commissions. That is why I am pleased that the Committee decides that relatives, survivors or others should be represented in future investigation commissions. The cancellation message that we are dealing with today suggests that the survivors should be able to apply for cheap compensation. This is a conclusion that SV does not agree with and does not find to be a good solution. SV is pleased that there is a majority in the Committee for the establishment of a special compensation scheme for the survivors after the ‘Evolved Senior’ and for the establishment of a separate name to deal with the requirements. This title is assumed to determine both the amount of claims and who should be entitled to such compensation. The majority of the Committee shall decide that the name shall be immediately reduced and that the work shall not be delayed in any way. Work shall be completed by the end of 2005. What is now important is that this name is given a mandate to allow it to assess the question of compensation on a free basis. The following must not be obliged to rely on the premises or conclusions of St.meld. No 33, but it has to collect the information that it finds appropriate. I would like to stress that it is necessary to be generous in granting compensation to the survivors. A unanimous committee also says that there has been a long and heavy road for the survivors both emotionally and mentally, and that has also been an economic burden. The size must explain the ‘Evelopment Senior’ case in its entirety and look at the authorities’ handling of this case. In February 2004, the Presidentship of Stortinget received a letter from the Government of Berg requesting an unhindered investigation of the authorities’ handling of the Utvik Senior case. The claim was subsequently accepted by the survivors. The letter from Berg points to a number of specific points which point to the fact that, in the investigation of the loss and in the examination of claims for re-examination in 1979, gross insensibility had been demonstrated, and that the public in fact – if not deliberately – had been misled. The letter followed a comprehensive and detailed documentation letter. The letter was sent to the Ministry of Justice from the Control and Constitutional Committee with the following comments: ‘The Committee assumes that the documentation submitted will be useful in the further work of the Council of State.’;» Last year, the setting for the new inspection of the cause of the loss occurred. It confirms what the survivors have claimed for 25 years. The location of the loss site, which they left themselves until 1979, excludes ground support as a cause of loss. The cause of the loss is likely to be a collision. While the first Commission claimed that there was no unidentified vessel in the area that could have collided with the ‘Effective Senior’, the new Commission pointed out that two unidentified vessels had been observed in such a position. The new Commission did not have the task of assessing the management of the authorities, but indirectly strengthened it — and confirmed the report — the allegations in the enquiries that came to the Committee from the municipality of Berg and the survivors. In November last year, the Stortinget received a joint enquiry from the survivors following the ‘Western’ loss and the ‘Utvik Senior’ loss. They expressed great concern about the crucial role the Ministry of Justice seemed to play in addressing the demands of the two groups and wishes addressed to the Storting. They pointed out that the Ministry of Justice has been responsible for dealing with both of these cases by the authorities and called for an examination of the handling of the authorities. In St.meld. No 33 assesses the administration’s handling of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ case. The notification acknowledges that the cause of the loss has had an adverse outcome overall, but at the same time it is stated that no assessment appears to be critical individually. There has been no gross insensibility, and no one has deliberately wanted to seduce or has actually seduced the public. If one could demonstrate that the authorities are ‘very much to load’, e.g. by finding positive management, this could trigger objective liability, as stated in the notification. But the ministry absolves the state of such responsibility and recommends to the survivors to seek cheap compensation. The Storing Notice does not mention that an examination of the handling by the authorities has been requested. The documentation from the municipality of Berg and the survivors is also not mentioned, and the most serious allegations in their enquiry are not taken up for discussion in the biggest message. The majority has had a well-documented claim from the survivors to investigate the authorities’ handling of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ case for over one year. It was desirable that a majority in the Committee should support an independent review, but SV is today alone about such a requirement. Earlier today, the Stortinget has discussed the tsunami disaster and the setting made by the Government after an independent investigation commission has looked at the authorities’ handling of the case. That's enough, I would argue, that if the authorities were to have a review of their own handling of the tsunami disaster, the matter would probably look a little different today. Perhaps things would not come up that have been discussed and treated in the Stortinget today. That's how I claim it's also with the Development Senior case. I think it is sad that SV stays standing alone for an independent investigation. There should certainly have been a review of the handling of the case by the authorities. This is to give a real uprising to the survivors, to give justice to the community and to the coastal community. SV believes it is likely that the shipwreck of the fish concession associated with the “Utvik Senior” will be lost after the loss of the shipwreck. because the first review concluded that the crash was due to incorrect navigation. In examining any application for replacement of a lost concession, the Swedish Government will place a decisive emphasis on the situation in which the relatives have landed, and that this must be seen as innocent. On behalf of SV, I would like to address the proposals we are co-sponsors for, and the proposal that SV is alone to promote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e362	The representative Lena Jensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e365	The fishing vessel "Utvik Senior" was listed on 17 February 1978 on the way from the Great Depth fishing field towards land in Steinfjord at Senja in Troms. The ship had a crew of nine men. Everyone died, unfortunately. The Ministry of Justice, pursuant to existing maritime law § 314, set up a commission of inquiry on 23 February 1978 to clarify and assess the causes of the accident of «Utvik Senior». After the loss, the survivors have not been able to reconcile themselves with the first Commission conclusion that the cause of the accident was misnavigation and critical seafarership. The Commission concluded in 1979 that: ‘The vessel may have been attenuated after ice-down and subsequently driven into the traps or entered the traps due to misnavigation. Thereafter, the vessel has been partially crushed.’» Since 1979, the survivors have been working to ensure that the investigations of the loss have been carried out. The Ministry of Justice adopted a new commission of inquiry, which presented its report in 2004, in NOU 2004:9. After the Commission’s overall assessment, collision with another ship was the likely cause of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ loss, as mentioned by several speakers here today. This conclusion is much more consistent with what the survivors have claimed, and the team on board the Developing Senior has been cleaned up for misnavigation claims. In the main message, it is stated at the same time that there is no basis for paying compensation in accordance with general claims rules. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the survivors and society else have a new examination of the "Evelopment Senior"'s loss. The State is not responsible for the general rules on compensation, but the Ministry of Justice recommended that the survivors be compensated for by cheapness. The authority under the Storting will decide whether the replacement recommendation should be followed. We now know that the probable cause of the loss was the collision with another vessel. In the light of the new conclusion, the Ministry of Justice has reviewed the handling of the loss by the board of directors and assessed the question of compensation for the survivors. The last Commission conclusion cleans the crew on board the ‘Evolve Senior’ for the misnavigation claims. In St.meld. No 33 for 2004-2005, the ‘Utvik Senior’ fishing vessel’s death on 17 February 1978, shows that assessments of the later loss do not appear to be successful. There is no coverage to claim that ‘the survivors were led behind the light of official Norway’. No one has deliberately wanted to lead anyone behind the light or has actually led the general and the survivors behind the light, in the process of clarifying the cause of the “Evelopment Senior” loss. I also mean, like Minister of Justice Dørum, that there is reason to give them a handshake in the form of a cheap substitute. I don't mean that such replacement is simple, but an expression of society's cause after a tragic loss and heavy years for the survivors. The Christian People's Party will not, like the majority in the Committee, send cases back to the Government to appoint a separate name to deal with the claims of the deceased. The government will then have to draw up a proposal for the Storting with a promise proposal to cover the payment of compensation, the management of fees, and its administration. The Stortin-get must then decide on its own basis on the proposed license, including its size in the individual cases. For the sake of the survivors and the time since the loss, it is most appropriate to allow the Billing Replacement Committee to start processing the claims for compensation rather than to expect a proposition from the Government to the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e396	It is a tragic matter that is now, after 27 years, hopefully brought to an end in a way that is acceptable to the survivors. The notification of accidents to be dealt with today in the context of the investigation of the ‘Utvik Senior’ accident states that the investigation of accidents is an act of assistance or service and that the State is not obliged to assist in clarifying the claims of the injured parties as a result of the accident. It's possible it can be said this way. But it was the State at the Ministry of Justice that, in accordance with the maritime law of the time, § 314 set up this commission of inquiry. It was this Commission's conclusions that have imposed the many years that have passed on both in the form of the allegations of poor seafaring, the abbreviation given in the insurance settlement, and the loss of fishing rights that has been held. It is therefore with amazement that I have read some of the wording in the Storing Communication. When it can be said that the assessments made by the Commission in the context of the accident, in retrospect, do not appear to be successful, and they use wordings such as that there is reason to give a handshake in the form of a certain replacement to the survivors, it is formulations that, in my opinion, are not acceptable to use. There is no doubt that the conclusions of the first Commission of Inquiry have led to difficulties in resuming this case. It also points out to the Minister of Justice himself in the submission of the report. There has been one of the most important reasons why the survivors have had to live with this for so many years. It is therefore not a handshake, but a reasonable compensation which should be shared by the survivors. And the survivors should, if possible, in the opinion of the Centre Party, also get back the lost fishing rights. There is nothing in the law of participants that precludes this from happening, as the Minister for Fisheries also points out in his response to the Committee. The centre party will support the majority voting position during voting today, and hopes that with this, as I said, we can bring an end to a long and sad case. In my opinion, the SV’s proposal to examine all aspects of the administration’s management is, despite the fact that the survivors have also expressed their wish to do so, is not the most important thing today. Providing proper compensation and a settlement that allows the survivors to move forward and look forward should, in my view, be more important. Establishing good procedures for future investigation commissions is another point that is important to address. And there should also be an unreserved complaint to the survivors. In this way, hopefully you can clean up this matter properly. I have no reason to believe, as the Minister of Justice also points out in the main message, that there are people who have deliberately wanted to make mistakes or draw wrong conclusions or hold back information. The first commission of inquiry did not do enough work. It is now corrected by Commission No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The most important thing now is to get this case out of the world in an acceptable and good way for the survivors. And these types of investigation commissions are supposed to be trusting. After all, there are a few other accidents, both the ‘Western’ accident and the Mehamn accident, where they have subsequently heard some of the same claims as those made in connection with the ‘Evelopment Senior’. I am going to be very careful to draw parallels between these three issues, but it only shows how necessary it is when the state first appoints these types of commissions, that the job is done in a proper way, so that everyone can trust that information is not withheld, and that you do not draw wrong conclusions. It's also something you have to learn from for the future. So, as said, the Centre Party will support the majority position as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e424	Can we trust the investigation commissions any longer? I ask the question, The Swedish Association of Investigations asks the question, Berg local government asks the question, and people who have been involved in the work with the ‘Development Seniors’ ask the question. Can we trust the investigation commissions any longer? I believe that the Stortinget must take an initiative as soon as possible to review the inspection systems critically to ensure that the necessary quality assurance is in place. The ‘Evelopment Senior’ case reveals, among other things: fundamental weaknesses in complaint handling procedures. It is not possible to complain, and if one still tries to complain, the principle is that the goat should take care of the oat bag. The Storting has been brought to trial about the loss of the fishing boat «Development Senior» outside Senja in 1978 for treatment. The survivors will have considered the matter to be a major maritime accident. They want the fishing rights back to the boat, and refuse to apply for an individual fee. The investigation commission concluded in April last year that the crash was due to collision with another vessel and not to navigation errors, as stated by the first Commission in 1979. We in the Coastal Party support the demand for the survivors and the rest of the population of Senja. They have always known that the fishing boat was clean after everything to judge, and that the crew did not die as a result of their own faults. A strong indicator that this happened is that the engine was found with the gear in reverse. You don't go back when you go forward. Some resumptions had not taken place without strong survivors and a staunch and skilled journalist who managed to obtain funding for his own studies. In retrospect, the search light has been placed on the work and assessments of the authorities in this case. Several critical issues have been identified. These conditions have been almost ignored by the Ministry of Justice. St.meld. No 33 for the 2004-2005 period, the survivors are assessed as a contribution by the parties to support the bureaucracy and administration of the Ministry of Justice. They have not been heard, pointing out that the basis for rejecting a review in 1980 was based on actual errors and unfounded claims. Many suggest that the Ministry of Justice, regardless of the facts, had decided that the fishermen and skipper Ola Abelsen himself were responsible for the accident. This blatant misguided attitude has led to the assessment of the replacement issue being handled by the authorities in a way that the Coastal Party cannot do well. We agree with the surviving lawyer, who says, ‘It is easy to acquit yourself from misappropriation, insensibility and responsibility when the criticism is not allowed to do so. The public and the public have not been made aware of the content of, and background to, the accusations and criticisms of the survivors and the community on the outside of Senja, and therefore do not have a basis for this. today to assess the credibility of the forecast. It is the wish of the survivors to rectify briefly." When the engine for the fishing boat was found, and the place of the shipwreck thus detected, one could conclude that the skipper Ola Abelsen had navigated very carefully and wisely when he led the boat into Senja in the difficult day of the accident. Yes, I was outside the Westphalia that night, and it was a very bad weather. If you were to go ashore, you had to be careful, and use reason, and so did Ola Abelsen. In accordance with the general rules on compensation, the liable person is liable for damages, or, where appropriate, his insurance company. In the case of ‘Evelopment Senior’, harm is unknown. Just the state's reluctance to reopen the investigation may be a very significant reason why it has been impossible to find damages. General common sense therefore suggests that the Ministry of Justice should assume liability. The matter is now under consideration in Stortinget. The Coastal Party believes that the matter should be returned to the Government, recommending that a benevolent political judgement be exercised. It's about unimaginable family tragedy. The state has played a key role in the growing scale of tragedy, not listening to the survivors and the local population. The state has shown little interest in resolving the matter. Once the country’s misguided conclusion and refusal of truth have had such dramatic consequences for the survivors, it must have consequences in the form of real upliftment and proper compensation. A further state attack on the survivors of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ and the local population of Senja will mean. The most important thing about this matter now lies in the fact that the big business and government act as the people's trustees and take responsibility for the evolution of this matter. The ‘Development of Seniors’ case is a disgrace. With the knowledge we have today, we can restore some of the confidence of the survivors after the accident. That's a reason we have to take advantage of it!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e456	It has now been more than 27 years since the fishing vessel ‘Edvik Senior’ was lost and a crew of nine men died. The loss has been investigated twice. The first investigation commission, which issued its report in January 1979, concluded as probable cause of the ship’s loss that the ship could have been attenuated after ice-downing and then grounded, or grounded after failure of navigation. The survivors could never accept the conclusion that the probable cause of injury was mis navigation with subsequent grounding. They left the ship feeling that it was offensive that the crew could have shown a bad seamanship, and they worked all year long to get the ship's investigations resumed. The loss and management of this was a heavy burden on the survivors and a small community. Following a search under the direction of the ‘NRK Focus’, the main engine of the Development Senior was located in April 2002. The findings led to a request from the survivors for the establishment of a commission of inquiry and, in consultation with the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Justice appointed in May 2002 a new independent investigation commission following the loss of ‘Utvik Senior’. The Commission issued its report in April 2004 and concluded that the likely cause of the spillage was a collision. It was now clear that the team at the ‘Development Senior’ had not navigated the error, but had chosen a reasonable course towards the country when the crash occurred. In the light of this new conclusion, the Ministry of Justice has, in accordance with the requirements of, inter alia: the survivors have passed through the management of the licence by the authorities. The Ministry considers that several of the assessments made by the authorities, both in the context of investigations and in the context of the follow-up of new findings, are subsequently found to be unfortunate. In view of the uncertainty which the Council has raised about the cause of the accident and the possibilities for further action in the matter, there is reason to ask whether the ministry should have re-appointed the Commission in 1979. In retrospect, it is believed that the Ministry of Justice should have been more critical and listened more to the survivors. In my opinion, there is no evidence to suggest that someone has deliberately wanted to seduce, or has actually misled, the public – and the survivors – in order to clarify the cause of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ loss. However, it is clear that the survivors have been subjected to an additional burden by reaching a false conclusion in 1978-1979. The case has been a testimony for many years for the survivors who lost their closest friends in the wreckage. The last Commission’s conclusion is that several more are consistent with what they have consistently claimed. This is also part of the background because I have recommended that the survivors be granted a cheap substitute. I have been working to bring down the new Commission and in the course of the follow-up to the work and conclusions of the new Commission very much concerned with taking into account the relatives and the survivors after the loss. Against this background, I saw it as important that, when the new commission of inquiry was set up, there was also room for an independent and skilled person to whom the survivors could have confidence, and without this creating decisive problems of stability in relation to the independent and independent position of such a commission of inquiry should and should have. In order for the survivors to be able to follow the work carried out by the new Commission, I found it important in this case that the Ministry of Justice provided financial support to the organisation and work of the survivors, so that they could also follow the work of the investigating commission. I have also met the survivors on several occasions. I see it as very important for the survivors that the matter can now find its conclusion. In the follow-up to the Storting decision, I will do my utmost to establish as soon as possible a separate compensation scheme for the survivors and to establish a separate name to determine the amount of compensation and to define who is to be covered by the scheme. In connection with this case, a letter from the municipality of Berg has been sent. I just want to quote here what the committee itself actually says: ‘The Committee has noted that in the public debate it has been discussed whether the Ministry of Justice has received an enquiry from the municipality of Berge dated 15 March 2004 which was forwarded from Stortinget on 22 April 2004. The Committee assumes that, by reviewing all the primary sources referred to in this letter, the Ministry has clarified whether the documentation submitted was of benefit to the further work of the Council of State, as stated. Committee endorsement in the letter of transmission.’;» I can confirm that the department has also assessed the enquiry from the municipality of Berg dated 15 March 2004, which was forwarded from Stortinget on 22 April 2004. The letter deals with matters that are essentially discussed in the Storing Communication, even if the message does not refer to this letter. The cancellation notice also addresses issues related to the work of the first Commission and the question of the possible resumption of the survey in 1979-1980, which is the main theme of the letter from the municipality of Berg. The Ministry of Justice has chosen to refer to the original sources of the archives — to which the committee refers — and not to subsequent requests. I think it is important just to confirm the assumption and assumption made by the Committee on this point. Otherwise, I might say, with a little quiet thought, that I should not have any special reason to cover something that happened 27 years ago? What reason should I have to do that? What reason should I have to go through archives in such a way that I should do it? I'll leave these questions standing. I don't know any such reason. I've been going through the sources that exist, and I've presented this with an open vision for the Storting. I am pleased with the sober and calm tone you have had in this debate, and I would like to confirm that I have chosen such a tone myself because I feel that the survivors have come into an incredibly difficult situation. I believe that the committee has also tried to solve it. When I proposed a cheap substitute scheme, with an adaptation of this, it is because there is also a basis for this in the previous treatments of the Storting. However, I note and take note that, in its work on this matter and on the basis of the reasons it has, the Committee has asked that we set up a separate name and consider a separate replacement. I have therefore said in my post that it will of course be followed up. I just want to say that the matter leaves behind many difficult considerations, and I have listened with interest to the various articles, and they will, like the committee position that exists, be the reference I have when I go on with my work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e491	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e494	I think I'll start by commenting on something that the rapporteur said, and that I found quite interesting and a little provocative. The rapporteur pointed out at the end of his speech that the Government’s proposal for replacement would lead to a faster treatment and would be more appropriate for the survivors. I assume that after 27 years the most important thing for the survivors is to get a proper replacement. I assume that the time factor is not the most significant, but that justice is done the most. It has to be more important than the time factor here. So it's like, at least at my discretion, that in this case it's about two relationships. It's about the role of the state, the role of the state as a power factor in relation to the ability of individuals to actually fight for what they think is right, and to prevent the state of various motives or coincidences from drawing a conclusion that turns out to be wrong. Then one as an individual must be strong. The state has resources that no one else can set up with. Therefore, I believe that this matter is a classic example of the state's need to show humility, and the state must have a sense of urgency in relation to its role. And we have other examples. Some have referred to the Mehamn accident, to the ‘Western’ accident and to the ‘Scandinavian Star’ accident, on which there is now a new debate. What are the facts behind the accident? If the individual people do not have confidence in the state, then we – all in this room – have a challenge. I think we should take that with us. I admire the relatives in this case who have fought for as many years as they have actually done, given the recognition that the previous conclusions have been incorrect. And what's good about it is that it shows that it works. So if you feel that you're right, it's going a long way, that -- I don't know if it's allowed to use the term -- suppress the state, because that's what I feel is happening here through what the majority today is proposing. The paradox is that you have to go this far, so you've been through a hard fight for almost 30 years, you've been on and using your own resources. And with the list and the lemp and the network you have, you're going to be able to sort it out at the end. I think it is good that the new Commission corrected in previous misunderstandings – I am going to use the term ‘misunderstandings’ – in relation to the claims made by the first Commission. Another moment that I also think it is important to point out is the role of defence. I also find it a bit interesting to see what the committee writes about the role and ability of defence to be a co-player and not a counter-player. Perhaps the most important thing, which I am also satisfied with in relation to the conclusion, is that we now have a separate compensation scheme, the second is that the crew's legacy is washed clean, and that the survivors are given compensation that is reasonable from the point of view of what they have been exposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e509	I remember very well on the February morning in 1978 when the news came that “Utvik Senior” was down. Such messages do something to us who live on the coast, and who have the sea as a workplace. We're all kind of affected. We know that the loss has happened and will happen again, but in such situations it is very important to have the greatest possible clarity about what happened when the boat disappeared. For abandoned by people who get away at sea, this is more important than others might have the opportunity to understand. There is no doubt that they left behind after the team of ‘Development Seniors’ in the 27 years that have passed since this happened, they have had to bear a large additional burden. This applies to the misnavigation claims. The locals and people who knew the conditions, and who knew the crew, rejected that theory early, very early. The boat was good and modern, the skipper was very capable, and the crew was experienced. The local population has consistently refused to believe that misnavigation and poor seafarers were the cause of the loss. Therefore, they have left behind themselves and many others worked on the matter all the time to prove that navigation of errors was not the cause of this loss. Through their intense work, they have reached the survivors, but it has cost them both hard work and money. I am pleased that it is finally established that the loss was not due to misnavigation, and I hope that this has taught us something, namely that it is important in all respects to listen to the local people and professionals who have firsthand knowledge of the weather, wind and waters. Had this been done earlier in this matter, much had been different. I am pleased that the majority of the Storting will provide the survivors with compensation for what they have had to review. I am pleased that the majority of Storting will establish a separate compensation scheme for the survivors. This allows for rapid treatment, a treatment that should be completed well in advance of the next year. The matter must, in my view, be given the highest priority. We must all help to ensure that the survivors can now put this matter behind them in the best possible way. I had therefore long hoped that today's decision on a separate compensation scheme would be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e520	It is a solid and reliable work that the new commission of inquiry has presented, and it is good for all of us. The case rapporteur said that the disagreement between the fractions here is not great, and so it is. We have a slightly different approach to how the replacement is to be done, how to in practice trigger such a replacement. The one fraction here, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, believe, according to their best judgement, that this is best done with a cheap substitute. The rest of the Stortinget believes that it is best done in the way suggested in the setting here: a name that takes care of this. The representative Brørby went through how the cheap compensation scheme has worked in Stortinget until now. In addition to what the representative Brøwby said, it is also such that, as far as I can understand, the substitute would require an application from each of the beneficiaries. And it has to be defined who is to be included. The second is that there is an amount limit up in this scheme, and the Storting is not quite convinced for its part that it is adapted to the situation we are currently facing. I think it would be good if in this case it could be an aggregate increase that was behind the final decision. I would ask the Right and Christian People's Party, when their proposals have fallen, to vote subsidiaryly for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e531	When we started today, we started a power and democracy debate. This debate is probably a good example of what happens when the basic attitudes that we're going to have in democracy are missing, when people feel a reluctance to the processes and you don't trust the state, or when things were made in a political time when you didn't have a society of openness on absolutely every point. But once things have to end. Citizens should be treated as citizens and owners of the country, not as customers or clients. I believe that the job the Minister of Justice has done in this matter, in fact deserves praise from this pulpit. They have taken up the matter, have had an open position and have wanted to meet the relatives several times, have wanted to start an investigation, and have gone in and supported the survivor's group, so that they can do so, and they have also made a complaint to the survivors. The representative Arnesen said that the majority would substitute. I don't know if anyone in this room will vote against giving compensation. What I might think is a somewhat daunting perspective of this, is that the cheap substitute system is viewed as something simpler than anything else, while it's really going to be one of the finest things to give. I don't think it's right if the Storing with this treatment should weaken this as the important institution it is. The Minister for Transport has launched a reform on commissions following this type of accident. I have been a member of the family after an accident that has been passed through by a commission. It is important to have confidence in such commissions. That's why it's important to have the composition that we're now seeing starting to be the composition of the future. After an accident of this kind, it's important to have the feeling that there's someone who can sort out the injustice you're feeling. It is important both for the care process and for the treatment of the shock. I think that those who have been exposed to this for such a long time ago, also need to be finished, put a line, and say that now they've apologized, now we've got compensation. At least we don't want it to take the longest possible time before they're allowed to put that line in their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e542	I take note that the majority does not believe that the survivors should be covered by an established cheap-compensation scheme by an injection, as I said in my opening post. An appropriation of it is in relation to the person-circuit that may be covered. That's what Stortinget has previously opened to happen. Now the majority will limit it. It's okay. We just have to deal with that. The undertone that someone meant to hear from my first post was really just an attempt to tone down the discord we have on this question, which I think Kjell Engebrettsen got with him afterwards Everyone thinks that the survivors will get some kind of compensation that is reasonable in relation to what they have experienced. What they have experienced has been going on in reality when it happened and for 27 years afterwards. That there has been a lot of stress, we all agree. That undertone someone thought was there, was really just a clarification of the voting theme from our side, without polishing, because there's so much consensus here. We believe that it will be more effective to build on an established system, where it is open for a larger audience to be included, and that the Storting has it today. A practice has been developed, an approach will be taken, and also in relation to the size to be adapted to the individual. In addition, a separate secretariat has been set up. Actually, it is a very practical approach we have taken on this issue in relation to dealing with the requirements with the respect they deserve, and preferably as quickly as possible. We continue to believe that there will be some sort of cheap substitute, here via Stortinget, which I believe will also be the result when the Council of State comes back to Stortingen to get appropriations for a new special compensation scheme. It becomes a majority for a separate compensation scheme. We have assessed to what extent we should support it subsidiaryly. There are good reasons to do that. That's not a big difference. But we're maintaining our proposal, for the reasons I've outlined, also because there are other groups that should have dealt with their claims. We don't think that is necessarily the big difference in principle, either with our proposal or with the majority proposal. This has already been clarified by the representative, Mr Engebretsen. I have great faith that the Council of State, based on today's debate, can handle this in a good way and come back to the Stortinget with a case of proposals for decisions and allocations that are in the hands of the suffering and pain that very many of the survivors and relatives have had in these 27 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e557	The representative of Mr Ellingen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e560	I didn't have the heart to stop, President. It was the representative of Grande who made me speak. After listening to the protests of the Minister of Justice, I was a little surprised, because the fact is that if you talk to the survivors in this case, I don't think it's an indiscriminate belief that the Minister of Justice has only been a co-player. I think actually they've experienced him as much as an opponent. So to the extent that the Minister of Justice should have credit for the job he has done, he must probably take what is on the other side of the barrel, too, namely a good deal of criticism from the survivors. The representative of Grande also pointed out that the representative of Arnesen had requested a compensation scheme. What he has pointed out is that there should be ‘a separate compensation scheme’ in this case. I'm not going to delay the debate anymore, but I needed to clarify and nuance what the representative Grande was about in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e571	That's it. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 2833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e589	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e596	I can't say I'm sorry I'm going to have the word again, but I'm going to be quick. I would just like to point out the fact that the Progress Party and the minority in this case also support the intention in what the matter is really about, i.e. biometric passports. But we want to express concern that the passport and passport fee will eventually end up being a purely fiscal charge for the state. We do not think that is very reasonable, so we would like to ask the Government to provide an estimate of the cost of producing passports when the budget for next year is presented. There have been examples from other Nordic countries where passports cost one third of the Norwegian passports cost. That's why we want to look at what's self-eating. Then I'll take up the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e605	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e608	This issue concerns Norway’s introduction of the same standards for identification in passports that the EU has introduced and that have been adopted by the United States will apply from 26 October 2005. Let it be said immediately that the Coastal Party is against the Schengen Agreement. This is an agreement that all the other parties on Stortinget, including the Advance Party, have agreed. The reservation of the Coastal Party will be short and good because we believe that the Schengen Agreement will result in a reduction and closure of border controls. We are serious about that. The result is that in Norway we can no longer control who enters the country, and the result is that thousands of people go around Oslo streets without a valid passport and without a valid residence permit. In short, we in the Coastal Party are open to people entering Norway as asylum seekers who have their passports in order to be assessed for residence in this country. However, immigration to Norway does not work that way. Norway has become the best country in Europe in terms of restrictions on immigration. We have opened the doors to all the peoples of the world. I am talking about the practice being practised, not the good intentions of our immigration policy. That's why we're experiencing an ever-increasing crime in Oslo. And far more serious: that's why we feel that Norway is defined as a very risky country in terms of terrorist actions. If we are to manage our own future in Norway, we are to build Norway as a good country to live in, both for us and for those who are persecuted in their own countries, we must have control of who comes in. The party of progress is the party that rides the highest on the wave of foreign fear out in the population. The party of progress is raging against immigrants. They are raging against the crime of immigrants, but the party of the Storing has done what they can to open the borders and allow free immigration. I see that not only as a double morality, but also as an attempt to trick the Norwegian population. You can't speak with one tongue out among people, and with another tongue on the Stortinget, as the Advance Party does. Of course, I will vote for Norway, together with the EU countries and the United States, to tighten up by introducing new passports and standards for security elements and biometric indicators in passports and travel documents. It is exhilarating that electronic storage of biometric data such as facial images and fingerprints in passports is now required and that this information is stored in a data register. I also agree with those who claim that passports are too expensive to be issued in Norway and that Norwegian passports are among the most expensive in Europe. I would ask that the fee for the new passports be at such a level that it will not be a future source of income for the country. There has been a sharp increase in recent years which cannot be justified by the real cost of issuing passports. I can join the minority from the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party, who ask that ‘The Government is asked to provide an estimate of the actual unit costs for the production of passports in the context of the presentation of the 2006 budget’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e628	The Government hereby submits proposals for the approval of decisions on the further development of the Schengen acquis, the Council of the European Union Regulation No. 2252/2004 of 13 December 2004 on standards for security elements and biometric identifiers in passports and travel documents issued by Member States. [[EF]] The Council Regulation is a further development of the Schengen acquis. The introduction of biometric personal information into passports and travel documents in the Schengen area shall prevent the falsification and use of incorrect passports during border checks. These measures will be important grants for preventing terrorism and other serious cross-border crime. The use of biometric personal information raises at the same time important questions relating to privacy by allowing the storage of biometric data to allow the use of personal information outside the purpose for which it was obtained. The Council Regulation therefore provides for rules limiting the use of such data in addition to the continued use of existing data protection rules. The government submits in parallel with Ot.prp. No 86 for 2004-2005, amending the passport law [[electronic storage of biometric personal information in the form of face photo in passport etc.]] Norway shall decide on its own initiative whether to accept the content of the legislation and to transpose it into Norwegian law. Approval of the Council Regulation [[EF]] I therefore recommend that the size now accepts the content of Council Regulation [[EF]] I would also like to stress that this legislation has a significant practical significance for anyone who wants to travel in the part of the world in which Norwegian citizens have gradually become accustomed to travelling freely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e645	I initially didn't intend to take the word. I had also not thought, as rapporteur of the case, that this would be a debate on immigration policy, to which the Coastal Party put forward. I would just like to point out that this Council regulation, on which the Stortinget is most likely to be close together, is a continuation of a Council regulation which imposes safety requirements on the issue of passports and travel documents. Odelsting will also take a decision on biometric passports later this evening as part of preventing and preventing acts of terrorism and other cross-border and serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e672	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e691	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e710	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e728	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e747	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e765	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e781	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e789	Then the Storting should go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e812	During the debate, Per Ove Width has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring together the leadership of the Council of Crisis under the Office of the Prime Minister.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e842	During the debate Heikki Holmås has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a compensation scheme for the pioneers in the North Sea, which provides the pioneers with upliftment and financial compensation according to the applicable compensation rules as if the State had legal responsibility for the pioneers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e872	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government is asked to establish an official approval system for occupational health services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e891	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005. At the request of the proposers, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is recommended to draw up legal provisions on the freedom of expression of employees, which provide workers with at least the same level of protection for opinions provided by Swedish workers in Swedish legislation. Such legislative proposal is submitted to the Stortinget by the end of the 2005-2006 bottling session.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e905	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose a gradual escalation of occupational health services to cover all employees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e924	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a simplified HMS code, the purpose of which is to coordinate and significantly reduce the number of HMS regulations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e943	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a simplified work environment legislation for small enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e962	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government is asking for the introduction of a general working time of 37.5 hours in order to reduce the general working time of the Working Environment Act from 40 to 37.5 hours.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e982	The vote will take place on the proposal from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, representative of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to prepare for the implementation of a legislative amendment ensuring equality between three-part turn and shift work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1001	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government requests the Government to provide the Storting with an appropriate analysis of the scope and use of the provisions derogating from the working time rules of the Working Environment Act.’ Here the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, so the President expects the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1022	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to break down the platform barriers experienced by users in order to be able to use online players. The access to media playback must be the same for all platform users while respecting the legitimate rights holders' protection requirements. Such proposals are submitted in time to take effect from 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1041	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to monitor the extent to which digitised works will be printed in libraries, archives and museums and universities/universities, and to assess, on this basis, measures to ensure that rightholders maintain their remuneration regardless of the technology used by users.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1047	The working party shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1054	So will the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1061	The Labour Party and the Centre have then announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1077	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the law in the context of the notified review of the copyright law, in particular with a view to ensuring that the interests of rightholders are properly safeguarded.’ Is it correctly understood by the President that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1085	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1103	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Lena Jensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Is André Oktay Dahl going to explain how he's going to vote, and more with him?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1115	In the light of the premises that were made clear by the representative of Engebretsen, I recommend that the government parties vote subsidiaryly for I and II in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1120	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision appoints a review commission to investigate all matters relating to the management of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ loss by the authorities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1135	Proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, is taken up for parting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is considered that the survivors should be granted an allowance for cheapness and that the Committee on Privilege Compensation should examine their applications as soon as possible after they have been received. The necessary adjustments are made to the system to enable the measurement to be made on the basis of the specific nature of the case.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1178	During the debate, Jan Arild Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size request the Government to provide an estimate of the actual unit costs incurred in the production of passports in the context of the presentation of the 2006 budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1208	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to evaluate the dispute law within three years of the entry into force of the Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1225	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess and investigate and come back to Stortinget with proposals for the possibility of appeal against a refusal of referral on the basis of proceedings in cases involving values above NOK 125 000.’ Here it is the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that are behind the proposal, so that the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1246	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that network providers and network operators be required to store traffic data for 12 months for exploration purposes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1265	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the changes to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act resulting from the Innst. O. No 113 [[2004-2005]] The centre party has announced that they want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1287	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to make an assessment of the opening-up to the use of renunciation methods in connection with killings, trafficking in human beings, child pornography/organised sexual assaults against children and for serious crime committed by perpetrators of criminal offences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1306	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The decision calls on the Government to promote a new proposition during 2005 for real wage coordination. In particular, it is requested to consider whether this can be done by and recorded by the local public prosecutor. Further proposals are requested for a scheme in which the employer has one overall wage and salary line.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1379	Referral case No 260 is proposed rejected under point (e) of the fifth paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure. Jan Simonsen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1384	I just want to remind you that a completely identical proposal was dealt with by Stortinget in the previous magnification period. This suggests that two different presidencies have two different views on how to interpret the Rules of Procedure. I would suggest that this proposal should also be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1389	Marit Nybakk has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1392	Only a brief explanation of vote: the Labour Party joins the Presidency's suspension on the grounds that the Presidency provides. I would like to point out that this proposal has been up several times, and it has been voted down several times. I would also like to refer to Security Council Resolution 476 on the status of Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1397	I would also like to recommend to the Right's Magnifying Group the support of the Presidency's proposal. I also agree with the reasons given by the representative Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1402	Section 28 provides five alternative ways of dealing with a proposal. I think it would have been interesting, given that it has not been mentioned from the President's office, to know whether this proposal has been dealt with in the current big session. Then it would be natural to reject it, because you take up a proposal only once per. session, unless there are special circumstances. But I think it would have been reasonable if the president could disclose the reasons for the presidential decision to the Grand Duchy on the procedure, because normally with these proposals, even if they are late, is either to send them to the committee under point (b), or that, according to point (c), they are provided for the transparency of the members of the matter for at least one day and then listed on the map for consideration, or that, according to point (d), they are taken up for decision immediately if not the President or one fifth of the members present oppose this. The letter d then falls away, because there are several people who have spoken so that the letter d is not on the number line. But I'd like to know the reason before I might suggest letter b or c.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1411	The President may state that the reason is that it is up to the Government to decide on the position of embassies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1414	There are a lot of issues that are initially up to the Government to decide. It has never stopped Stortinget from making proposals where the Stortinget asks the Government to do things. It is also the case that we have adopted proposals with the words «The Government is asking the Government to...», which then the Government ignores and does not care to follow up at all. Then it is up to Stortingen to respond. So if that's the reason, then I allow myself to formally propose that this Document No. The 8-proposal is dealt with in Section 28(c), i.e. it provides transparency for the members of the thing for at least one day and is then recorded on the map for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-2.ana.ud2269e1421	The President shall maintain the proposal set out here that Document No. The 8th amendment is rejected in accordance with point (e) of the fifth paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure. There has been a proposal from Carl I. Hagen to use Section 28, third paragraph, point (c). Then we have to vote for this. The President wants to know if it's okay to put the letter c and the letter e up against each other. Does that cover Simonsen's needs? The president sees Simonsen nodding. Then there is an alternative between Carl I. Hagen's proposal and the presidency's proposal.
