ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e31	Speakers before me today have been aware that this is a historic day, because many who have not had a occupational pension system, but only the people's rights when they were going to retire from retirement, are now entitled to a retirement pension. That's right, there's almost 600,000 employees. There is a major reform to be implemented now, including in many small enterprises, and there is a great need for information on the implementation of this reform. The debate has been marked by a large degree of consensus on what is now available from a broad majority. It is only the Progress Party that disagrees in principle, but otherwise there is a great deal of consensus in the Storting on how this should be done, and the debate has been quiet and calm. That's why I'm just going to have some comments on some aspects of how this is done. What was determined by the treatment of the gross grant notification of the pension reform was the introduction of a compulsory occupational pension, the design of the scheme under the Entrepreneurship Act or the Pensions Act, the compulsory occupational pension in employment to cover all workers who qualify for membership under the two laws, and the entry into force of the rules as from 1 January 2006. This decision was taken on 26 May. The Banking Law Commission examined the issues and prepared a draft legislative text. The investigation was sent to the hearing on 1 July, with a relatively short deadline, and it was set on 8 August. On 7 October the Ministry of Finance presented the proposal and the proposal for a legal regulation on compulsory occupational pension in line with the guidelines of the Storting. The Financial Committee has now given its opinion and the majority subscribe to the Ministry’s legislative proposal. I note that there is a broad consensus that, as from next year, most employee enterprises, including non-taxable enterprises, are required to have occupational pension schemes for their employees. This will help to increase the prevalence of occupational pension schemes and thus to increase the participation of more people and save on their own pensions. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee believes it is important to ensure that pension savings receive a reasonable return and that the ministry is asked to follow closely the development of administrative costs. The ministry will of course follow this closely. However, I would point out that there could be a link between returns and risks in the management of plan assets and between the choice of the management model and the costs associated with that management. I have also noticed the majority's request to facilitate non-commercial occupational pension schemes with the best possible offer to workers and businesses. A similar wording is known to be included in the Soria Moria Declaration. The majority of the Committee has used the principle of ensuring compulsory occupational retirement pensions for all members of the scheme at the ordinary retirement age of 67 years and has asked for a detailed examination of the relationship with private sector employees with special age limits. Under the decision of the Storting on 26 May, schemes are to be designed under the Act of Occupational Pensions or the Pensions Act. Based on the Occupational Pensions Act and the Pensions Act, the retirement age is lower than 67 years for employees carrying out specified occupations, such as: nurses, drivers, miners, pilots and other flight crew members and divers. I would like to remind you that the purpose of these special age limits is to enable payment of occupational pension before the age of 67 for these groups of employees. The size has previously established a separate law on the pension scheme for seafarers, which implies that seafarers receive their own statutory pension between 60 and 67 years of age. I have noticed that the majority of the committees are asking for an investigation into the relationship between compulsory occupational pension and the special age limit to be submitted to the Stortinget in the revised national budget. In this context, I would like to recall that the majority of the Financial Committee in its position on the pension notification on 23 May this year also addressed this issue. An investigation of this now will, as I can see, among other things. raise issues relating to the general issue of special age limits, access under the rules in force in the Occupational Pensions Act and the Pensions Act to have retirement benefit schemes which expire after 10 years, and access under the Occupational Pensions Act to end benefits at the age of 67 when the retirement age is less than 67 years. Under current law, entities that only employ the owner of the undertaking may not establish a tax-advanced collective pension scheme. In the light of the decision taken by the Storting on 26 May this year, a certain option was proposed for self-employed persons to set up a pension scheme in connection with the proposal for a compulsory occupational pension scheme. The majority of the Financial Committee has agreed to this. At the same time, the Committee has asked for an overall assessment of the question of occupational retirement provision for self-employed persons and for an assessment of the need for changes in other tax-stimulated pension schemes for employees and self-employed persons. I have noticed that, and I have also noticed that an assessment is being asked to increase the limit on contributions to the deposit pension scheme to 4 pst., and that it is presented in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e52	Finally, all workers receive occupational pension. It ensures a pension for many who are more at the level of the income they have earned in their professional life. The reform applies to everyone and is not linked to whether you work in the private or public sector, in small or large enterprises, in the voluntary sector or in a commercial enterprise. The reform also applies to seafarers. Seafarers are a group in a special situation. They have a special age limit of 60 years agreed with the employer. Since compulsory occupational retirement provision for groups with a special age limit has not been discussed in the agreement from the last spring or in this position, it is therefore important to stress the importance of the Government addressing this issue in the context of the revised budget. However, the will of the majority is clear: the reform covers all, including seafarers. It is also important to closely monitor developments in the private pension market. The tailoring of the pension may seem provocative for the individual, but individuality costs. Collective arrangements are likely to provide a better return and thus a better pension for individuals than individual schemes. This is easy to ignore today, as the consequences are only visible far ahead of time. At the same time, it is important for authorities to be vigilant in relation to this issue, also in relation to administrative costs, the competitive situation in the market, as well as for some enterprises to be tempted to renew old agreements with the intention of staying at a minimum level. This has never been the intention of the government parties. A strength in Norwegian policy is the broad consensus we find in things like this. When it comes to major, important welfare reforms, Norwegian politicians often manage to gather on good solutions. It ensures continuity in people's well-being over time, even if governments come and go. I am pleased that the support of such a major and important reform is as broad as we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e63	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 72]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e79	Odelstinget is currently examining proposals for the law establishing the State pension fund. As the rapporteur, I would first like to present the legislative proposal and the vote of the majority. I will then use the last part of my post to present the comments and alternative suggestions of the Progress Party. Today’s bill is based on a decision taken in the Stortinget on 26 May 2005, where the Government was asked to launch the work of a pension reform in line with an agreement concluded between the Christian People’s Party, the Left, the Right, the Centre Party and the Workers’ Party. Int. S. No Among other things, 195 for 2004–2005 from the Financial Committee on Pension Reform.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The State Petroleum Fund and the Swedish Social Security Fund shall be converted into a State pension fund.’; [[...]] The government and all parties, except the Progress Party, assume that the State pension fund is to be established in such a way as to maintain the country’s financial saving. The draft law also states that the State pension fund can be seen as a continuation of the purpose of the State Petroleum Fund and the National Social Security Fund respectively. The laws accompanying these funds, which are proposed to be continued in the State Pension Fund, state that the Swedish Social Security Fund is to become the ‘maximum benefit for social security’ and that the Petroleum Fund is to be ‘linked to the financing of future pension payments in social security’. The manner in which such bands are to be established is not referred to in the attached draft law. The draft law we are discussing today implies that the Folketry Fund and the State Petroleum Fund change their names to the State pension fund – Norway and the State pension fund – Foreign. The saving in the fund will not be linked to the development of government pension liabilities in the provision of social security, and the transfers from the fund will not be earmarked for pension purposes. Social security is thus continued as a ‘pay-as-you-go’ pension scheme. The change in the name of the country's fund structure also does not entail any changes in the form of organisation. This means that both the organisation, management and investment profile of the Petroleum Fund and the Swedish Social Security Fund, respectively, are proposed to be maintained. One part of the fund will invest exclusively in foreign securities and in our competitors, while the other part will invest mainly in Norway. The Government further proposes that the Ministry of Finance be allowed to lay down detailed rules for the management of both the domestic and foreign parts of the State pension funds in its own regulations. This is a tightening in relation to today's practice, where the Stortinget lays down rules for the Swedish Social Security Fund. The majority of the Committee notes that the Stortninget will continue to be given the opportunity to express its views in the future and that the guidelines for the pension fund will be anchored in the Stortingen. The majority also requests the Government to provide an assessment of the location of the State pension fund – Norway. In line with the pension notification, the Government proposes that the budgetary policy be continued as today and that the rule of action be used as a basis for the use of the money rebaptised to pension funds by this bill. In the rest of my contribution, I want to focus on the comments of the Progress Party and our alternative proposal. The Progress Party considers it wise to allocate significant financial resources in exceptional good times so that they can contribute to financing future allocation needs for reasonable and necessary purposes, including old-age and non-pension pensions. The Progress Party therefore supports the idea of setting up a State pension fund, as we proposed in 2000, but we were voted down in the Stortinget. However, the Progress Party assumes that financial resources in a pension fund are actually going to fund pensions, and we therefore want to designate the money for this purpose. However, the proposed legislation does not link to current or future pension payments, and the Progress Party will therefore not support the proposal. As we see the proposal, this is suitable for throwing blues in the eyes of people. The continuation of the current fund structure under another name will not help to secure future pensions, and the proposal is therefore to understand as a rhetorical operation without real substance. A proposal to establish a pension fund that has no connection whatsoever to pensions, so as to defend it through the advanced use of economic terms and concepts, further contributes to the promotion of financial policy for people most and in many ways to the instigation of the equal choice. Through a round of questions and answers with the responsible department and government council, the Progress Party was confirmed that the fairy tale ‘Keisen’s new clothes’ is not only a pleasant lesson for children, but that the adventure is also read diligently in the Ministry of Finance. And the State Council Halvorsen makes a brilliant effort as the king of the adventure, of course in the transferred meaning. In relatively simple and precise written questions to the Council of State relating to the bill, we have been confirmed that the financial thinking of the Ministry of Finance is unaffected by the economic situation of the country, and completely independent of the state council that is always responsible. In the Ministry of Finance there are economic models, calculations and analyses, and then it obviously plays a smaller role in the extent to which they go across common sense and public sense. For example, the Council of State is not able to answer questions related to the consequences of alternative investment profiles. Why, for example, is it that Norway should almost exclusively use its financial resources to strengthen our competitors? If such anti-prudential thinking were to be wise, why is there no other country that has chosen such an investment profile on its pension funds? Why is it exactly the amount that represents at all times the budgeted return on the Petroleum Fund, that is, the rule of action, which is the most responsible fiscal policy? According to today’s forecasts, such thinking would mean that in 2006 it would be responsible to spend 70 billion kroner on the State budget, while in 2009, for example, it would be financially responsible to spend more than 100 billion dollars. In other words, how does it turn out that use beyond the interpretation of the rule of action today has negative effects on inflation, interest rate and dollar rates, while the same amount at a given time in the future will not have the same negative effects? The number of economists who are skeptical about having a general rule for the use of the State’s profits is growing steadily, and it is hoped that some of them will also be brought into the Ministry of Finance’s office in the future. The rule of action is and becomes nothing more than an ineffective and inflexible tool that neither takes account of investment needs in assets nor economic cycle. It is therefore hoped that the rule of action will end up on the rhetorical scrappowder of policy together with other well-known concepts and policy tools. I mention in flæng: Brustad-bua, no to color-TV, ban on table beans, cutting off the stock exchange, ban on fresh bread on Sunday, only heat and do not call sausages after 1 p.m. 17.00, free sale of shower, but no for the sale of milk – in short, political outings and attitudes that put politics in jeopardy. Then we can ask further: why is it proposed to set up a state pension fund that has nothing to do with pensions at all? Why isn't the money in the proposed fund for just retirement, because this is the stated purpose of the bill? Since there is no link, the fund might as well have a name attached to other expenditure items in the State budget. For example, we could establish a judicial fund that is not linked to the expenses of the police and the judiciary. We could set up a training fund that does not finance the education sector, etc., because no one in this room believes that future expenditure on, for example, justice, health or education is less committed to government and growth than pensions. In response from the Council of State, we are told that petroleum revenues must be treated in a very special way, because they come from non-renewable resources. Yes, but why is income from related industries not treated in the same way? Why should revenues from the supply industry, the rigging industry or services not be treated equally? Many of these establishments have been established and will not survive without the petroleum industry. The fact that everything is related to everything, as a former Prime Minister put it, clearly has little impact in the Ministry of Finance, even completely independent of political leadership. These are some of the questions that the Progress Party has asked the Minister for Finance but has not received an answer. One is tempted to believe that the background for this is that the obvious answers do not fit into the ministry's economic models. The change of name we are discussing today describes, among other things: The management structure of the Social Security Fund, a structure which all the other parties wish to continue. This means that the Folketry Fund, or the future State pension fund – Norway, does not have the opportunity to act on market premises. Today, the Board of the Fund is being set aside in matters of recruitment of the management of the Fund and that the Minister of Finance may be tempted to make political appointments. When we know at the same time that the Minister of Finance represents a party where the Vice-Chairman wants to shut down the entire stock exchange, we can only hope that the political markers are missing. However, the Progress Party does not wish to expose the State Council to such temptations and believes that the Board of the Fund should assume that responsibility, in line with all other management funds. However, the fact that the party SV wants political control and control over the frail market forces is not surprising, but that the self-declared business party on the right shares this view is a little more alarming. The draft law also does not propose any changes to the investment opportunities of the Swedish Social Security Fund. The Fund shall remain bound by strict restrictions on where the Fund may invest and on what the Fund may invest in. This, of course, is paralysing the fund's navigational potential in a fast-moving and global market and, at the same time, is breaking the government's stated objective of the best possible return on the fund's resources. At the same time, the Government proposes that the fund's values in the future be accounted for at market value, which in practice means that the fund will have to sell shares in order to meet the imposed restrictions on the fund's investment profile. Furthermore, it is a great paradox that today's folklore fund is required to invest 110 of the fund's 190 billion SEK to increase liquidity in the Norwegian state. This is done through the establishment of bank accounts at the Bank of Norway. So this way, the fund uses 60 pst. of the investment capital to finance a country that does not need any money at all — a good way for the Ministry of Finance to control the activities of the Swedish Social Security Fund, but very expensive and rational for Norwegian taxpayers. The Petroleum Fund is also proposed to continue, but changes the name of the State pension fund – abroad. This part of the fund will continue to strengthen our competitors, and we may experience that our own money contributes to the purchase of Norwegian businesses at Oslo Børs – if it survives, then – businesses that can be moved out of the country in the next round. Despite the fact that the Government has assured us that the Soria Moria Declaration – by witty tongues renamed the Hacklet book – contains side up and down with tools for industrial policy use, there are no tools that can be used in capital management. The progress party's question to the Council of State is therefore as follows: Why not use Norway's new industry, namely capital management, as a means of creating the world's best capital management environment in Norway? Why are the large non-resident capital managers primarily benefiting from the investments of the Norwegian State? In the light of the above, I will take up the alternative proposals of the Advance Party, as they emerge from the position of the Financial Committee. In the autumn, we have experienced that representatives of the other parties have spent much of their time talking about the policies of the Progress Party, or – more precisely – spent time caricing the policies of the Progress Party. Now that I have explained in detail for 10 minutes what the Progress Party wants in this matter, I hope that my political opponents today will use their speaking time to defend the positions of their parties. However, I understand that it may seem like a difficult task, not least because establishing a pension fund without any connection to pensions both intuitively and through reflection for most people does not seem very sensible. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that within the 10 minutes I have been standing on this platform, the Petroleum Fund has increased by over 6 million. kr, probably to a great deal of pleasure for non-resident asset managers and businesses in our competitor country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e145	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will recommend the representative Tybring-Gjedde to dampen the desire to use colorful characteristics of his colleagues, even if there are adventures he's coming forward, and even if they're meant to be of transferred importance. According to the President's opinion, it fits better outside this hall. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has asked for the floor, and the President is not quite sure whether it is in line or whether it is in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e152	It's for articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e159	Then the next speaker is Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e162	There might be a line in the form of an article. The representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts raise the need for some comments. There is an important change in the name proposed today, when the Storting agrees to change the name of the State Petroleum Fund to the State Pension Fund. Revenue comes from the petroleum sector, but, in reality, this revenue is set aside to finance future pensions. There are at least two important reasons why such a fund should be set up and constructed. One is: given the full use of capacity in the economy, increased use of money will lead to increased demand, which in turn leads to increased prices and costs, which in turn lead to job losses. Or let's illustrate it a little bit easier: if it's the way many people want to clean up their house and demand the labour of construction workers, and you demand more construction workers than what's really available, the only way to get access to these building workers is to offer a higher wage. However, if higher wages are offered, some industrial workers will also feel that it is perhaps reasonable to move from industry to construction, and if the industry is to maintain its labour force, it will also have to pay higher wages. But if industry pays higher wages, it can only compensate these higher costs through higher prices. If other countries do not have the same cost growth, this means that Norwegian goods are becoming more expensive than goods in other countries. This means that fewer Norwegian goods are sold. This in turn means that Norwegian companies are bankrupt and jobs are lost, and the majority of these jobs in the competitive sector are located in District Norway. In short, the economic policy of the Progress Party, with a strong increase in the use of money, means the loss of jobs and increasing unemployment, mainly in District Norway, where most of the competitive business is. The second reason is that it makes sense to set aside money, so that they can be saved to finance future expenditure, primarily pensions. Then Tybring-Gedde has of course right in that it's also going to be spending for other purposes in the future. But the challenge, both in Norway and in other countries, is that we have pension obligations that far exceed the amount of money that was set aside to meet these obligations. The alternative to meeting them is either a substantial increase in taxation in the future or significant welfare measures, such as: in the health and care sector. I assume that the Progress Party initially does not want any of the two things. The use of petroleum income by the Party of Progress means that future pension funding is used up. In other words, money is spent in such a way as to make pensions worse for future pensioners as a result of today's policies. The current change of name provides a necessary reminder that the use of petroleum revenues has consequences. It has an impact on future pensions, in addition to the impact it has on jobs in the competitive sector. So what's the rule of action? It is true that when we allocate this money to the Pension Fund, they should at some point be included in the economy. The question is when, how and how much. So there's a broad consensus in this room that it makes sense to set up a rule of action that limits how much money you bring into the economy. Using real returns, you keep the fund capital. In other words, it ensures what is important to finance future pensions, while at the same time opening up access to some increased use of money. But, and this is the important point in relation to Tybring-Gjedde's claims, to the extent that using real returns from the Pension Fund means stimulating the economy so that you get a demand that leads to a demand pressure, even such a use of money will result in an increase in costs, and that we will be able to have an increased transfer of resources from the competitive sector to the protected sector. It is not the case that using the rule of action protects against any such effect, but it would be less than it would be if you were to have an unimpeded use, as the Progress Party adds. The policy of the Progress Party demonstrates the need to impose such restrictions as the rule of action, which means taking into account the importance of securing jobs in District Norway and securing jobs in the competitive sector, which takes into account the importance for future pensioners of ensuring that they receive the pension benefits they are proposed and thus contribute to the stability of economic policy. The dilemma is that those who need the most to assume such a self-commitment are, unfortunately, those who reject it most strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e186	The representative of Tybring-Gjedde was concerned that representatives from other parties would use their speaking time to caricate the Progress Party. To put it like this – after Tybring-Gjedde's articles, it's completely unnecessary. But I think you might want to be a little careful when you spend 10 consecutive minutes racqueting with and caricing other politicians and other politicians' policies. You have to be a little careful about issuing warnings to others. It's something I'm very proud of as a politician. Perhaps what I'm most proud of is that we politicians from different parties and governments have managed to manage the petroleum revenues in the way we've done. I believe that some of it is an overall political environment in Norway, as with the exception of one party, there is reason to be very proud of, is that of not spending money that would not only have damaged the Norwegian economy, but would also have weakened the possibilities of future generations to pay for our pensions. That we have managed to manage wealth in such a way, I believe we have every reason to be proud of. We also need to be aware that the petroleum income is a fortune. There is no renewable source to which we relate, but a wealth to be managed. Of course, we should enjoy the incomes and use some of them to strengthen Norwegian well-being – and we have done so to those degrees as well. Until we created the Petroleum Fund, we used about scratches and bits. After that, we've managed to put quite a few billion aside. At the same time, it is important that petroleum revenues are also phased in in such a way that they do not create imbalances in the Norwegian economy. That's why we have the so-called rule of action. It is not that the rule of action itself is the lacmus test of a responsible economic policy, because other parameters are also important there, among others. expenditure growth. But it is a tool to ensure that oil revenues are phased in in a proper and responsible way. What is perhaps the most important thing is that we also ensure that future generations will enjoy the wealth that we pump up from the North Sea. I believe it is a fundamental unsocial policy to use much more oil money than the large bulk of the population adds, both because it creates pressure in the Norwegian economy and thereby higher interest rates, which affect families and jobs in the competitive sector, and because excessive use of oil money also helps to ensure that future generations do not have the same opportunity to finance future pensions. I think perhaps Tybring-Gjedde and the Progress Party would rather say what it is, that it is more unpleasant to use money in a pension fund than when they are in a petroleum fund. The reality is that this money is essentially going to be spent on future pensions. That's why it's a sensible and correct rebaptism we're doing today, that it's going to be called Staten pension fund for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e201	Of course, the Christian People's Party stands for what is in the position of the majority. I really didn't intend to take the word, but Tybring-I was happy to extend the meeting a little bit by his post. For us, it is important not least to see this as a generational promise in the sense that we see a little beyond the individual fiscal year, and also take inwards that others also have the right to benefit from the wealth represented by oil and gas. What made me take the floor was that today we woke up early to a announcement that the country's development minister, Erik Solheim, had been in contact with the World Bank President, Paul Wolfowitz, whom I think is a person who can stand close to the Progress Party in a number of contexts. He said that Norway was the only country that had managed its oil fortune in a sustainable way, not least in terms of looking beyond the generation that is so lucky to experience just this oil adventure. So my question is, since the representative Tybring-Gjedde is now going to have the floor after me: Is the Progress Party agreeing or disagreeing with Mr. Wolfowitz’s Layouts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e210	I have had some reactions to my post instead, and I will first comment on what Mr Sanner said. I presented the policy of the Progress Party. If Mr. Sanner thought I was presenting a caricatured version of the Progress Party's policy, he'll be in charge of it. I presented what is the policy of the Progress Party, and how we understand economic policy, and what I and others in the Advance Party have learned when we studied economics. I don't know where the others went to school and learned their theories, but at least there's no theories saying that you should set up a pension fund that has nothing to do with pensions. I doubt it in any textbook, nor is it in any other country. And that's what this case applies to. So to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, who spoke about the unimpeded use of oil money by the Advance Party. It's a completely meaningless claim. In the next year's budget, the Progress Party will set DKK 300 billion – i.e. that the Petroleum Fund, or the Pension Fund, is increasing by DKK 300 billion – while the other six parties will set at NOK 316 billion. The NOK 16 billion that we spend more, we use for tax relief and for investments in assets, investments in assets, for example. infrastructure to create an increase in economic growth and an increase in the income base of the Norwegian State. That's sensible investment. In all the textbooks I've read, it makes sense to generate economic growth at home, rather than generate economic growth in our competitors. We want, as I said, a pension fund that is earmarked for pensions. No one has stood on this speaker and said that it makes sense to have a pension fund that has nothing to do with pensions. If there are representatives in this room, who believe with their heart that it makes sense to have a pension fund that has nothing to do with pensions, I would like them to come up and explain why that is wise. We want a pension fund, but we want to designate it as pensions. We also want the contribution to social security and the employer's fee to be included in this fund, so that it can finance current and future pensions, and that it can operate on its own, regardless of the state budget. That is what we want. It is a sensible fund to secure future pensions. Then you have to figure out for yourself what the need is. That's what we're asking the government to come back to Stortinget with. It needs to find out what the need for future pensions is, and how much we need to invest in this fund in order to afford to finance future pensions. Now you create a pension fund, but still take money from the government budget to fund pensions, and then you set up a rule of action that varies for every single year – 4 pst. The return on this money, and it will vary from year to year, and every time it goes up, it always makes sense because it is within the rule of action. So you have a rule of action of 4 p.m., which will vary all the time, and, as I was in my post: in 2009, this rule of action will amount to 100 billion kroner. Then someone might say that then it should be 3 pst. So you get this reduced. Economic activity is not taken into account and the need for the Norwegian economy is not taken into account. That's what we have to do. We have to ask, what is the need? How can we generate growth and income growth for the Norwegian state in the long term? That's what the Progress Party wants to do, and we're going to spend 16 billion more. We spend $300 billion on future pensions and other useful purposes – which Norway will need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e221	Our spillage of oil and gas occurs at an enormous pace, at a pace that many think is too great. It gives huge revenues. It is then wise to allocate some of these enormous revenues from the non-renewable values of a fund. I will be the first to admit that the Progress Party has a point that the name is small in coverage of the money spent on it. It might have been wiser to have a more comprehensive name for this. But there is at least a broad consensus that the money put on funds will be spent on something far more than pensions. What made me take the floor was that we have now received a very clear clarification from the Progress Party about what they believe that the money put on funds should be used for, namely that it should be a transfer from the fund, and it should be earmarked for pension purposes. The enormous values that we now bottle up, which are non-renewable, are to be used unilaterally to generate job-free income in the future. People shall receive unemployment income as a result of a return from the Fund. If we go back and look at the history, nationally or internationally, in those periods that one intended to build up a country by investing in unemployment incomes, I think one comes to a quite unambiguous conclusion: it leads to stagnation and decay for that people, that country, that industry, that family -- the one who thinks that way. It is quite strong to learn that the Progress Party wants to use the enormous values accumulated here for jobless incomes instead of helping to stimulate work and daily work, which can ensure the creativity needed to make each generation's work a little more efficient and easier. That is why I am very pleased that the Government has a wider use of funds, where one puts money into work by modernising Norway, investing in an infrastructure that enables us to have competitiveness in relation to an increasingly brutal international competition, develop safe jobs, get an active industrial policy and, not least, secure the overall well-being of those who need it. Therefore, when discussing the use of funds in the State pension fund, it is important that we have the broad definition clear to us and do not think that there should be a fund that will provide job-free income in the future. It'll be a big mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e235	I felt the need to say a few things all the way down. There are several different principles underlying the holding of a petroleum fund, which is now renamed the State pension fund. I also think it's a point with the name. But it's clear it's a politically elected name, which is chosen to signal that the reason why we're spending money is, among other things. that we want to provide for the future generations, pay pensions and secure pensions in the future. The simple point – I drop everything else, for everything else has all the others said – is as follows: If the Progress Party had been put through to legislate that the Petroleum Fund should be a pension fund, what would it have looked like and had an impact on the state budgets that the Progress Party has put forward proposals for every year? As far as I know, the Progress Party has provided additional appropriations that they take from what they would prefer to think was a pension fund – a further NOK 16 billion, says Tybring-Gjedde. 16 billion extra dollars are to be taken from the Progress Party prefers to have as a pension fund, and used on tax credits. Then I think the rest of the rhetoric in the post becomes quite hollow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e244	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 75]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e260	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 76]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e276	It was not really up to any debate in this matter, but I am late this afternoon made acquainted with a letter, dated December 13th, sent from the Ministry of Health and Health to the Norwegian Physiotherapist Federation, the Swedish National Agency for Strygde, the Norwegian Kiropraktor Association and the Norwegian Medical Association on the presentation of changes in regulations as a result of Ot.prp. No 28, which we are now dealing with, with the deadline for replying. 15 this afternoon. There are two things I'm responding to. Firstly, the letter sent is not in accordance with the contents of the Committee's statement and is contrary to the content of the proposal. The proposition reads as follows: ‘The Ministry will define in regulation the meaning of the term manual therapist.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Ministry will also clarify requirements for documentation of the necessary competence in differential diagnostics and laboratory analyses and training in radiology for manual therapists...’» The letter sent says: ‘The Ministry considers it appropriate that detailed provisions on the requirements to be laid down for the performance of the functions regulated by the new legislative and regulatory provisions as well as the definition of manual therapist are not laid down in Regulation but are laid down in its own despatch from the Ministry.’ I also react that a feedback has been requested to the department before we have made any decision here in Stortinget. It would have been understandable if the contents had been in accordance with the opinion of the Committee. But it's not. I expect the department has been familiar with the committee's setting for a few days. That's why it's even more strange. What I'm asking for is to clarify this. I would like the Council of State to confirm that it is the bulk document in force in this case and that what will be used for further regulatory work is the decision that will be taken on the basis of a unanimous committee position, and that it is a regulation that is being drawn up and not that it will be laid down in a ‘own expedition’, which must now mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e298	I can confirm that of course it is Storting's documents and setting that apply. The decision taken here tonight – which is a broad support for the Government's proposal, which I am pleased to see – is, of course, to be followed up in the right way. Once the decision is made, a regulation is made, as it is also laid down, which also goes to the King in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e303	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 79]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e319	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 79]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e335	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e342	The data world is over us to the full, and electronic communications have become a major part of our everyday lives. Besides the Christmas cards that we are writing in these days, not many of us remember what it was like to write letters anymore. The Internet and e-mail have come to stay. In this matter that we are now dealing with, we see that some of our laws need to be modernised as the progress is made. We are talking here about facilitating the increased use of electronic communications in debt negotiations and bankruptcy. This will save time and costs, so that the means of living can be used much better. The Ministry expects such changes to the rules on advertising to result in savings of a total of 8 million. kr. Today, it is an obligation to announce bankruptcy and debt negotiations in Norsk Lyningsblad. This will be repealed with the new legislation, and each resident will now have its own side, and all notices will be published via the electronic publication of the Brønnøsund registers. Such a notice will be as effective and reach the same target groups as it is today, but in a much more rational and labour-saving way. Today, up to 10 days may elapse after the decision to open the bankruptcy notice has been published in the paper and Norwegian Lynningsblad. With an electronic notice, the information may be available the day after the opening of the bankruptcy. Each resident now receives his or her own publication page, and all information in the processing of his or her residence is published here. Collecting all information at a single location is a practical prerequisite for achieving economic rationalisation gains. The Ministry also arranges for electronic subscription to bankruptcy notices. This will also provide easier and more customised access to information for users, and one will also be able to subscribe to publication information from a country or from an industry. In some consultation opinions, including those of the Data Protection Authority, it appeared that privacy needs to be taken into account. By failing to provide for the removal of a secure identification, the protection of privacy has been ensured, as the Committee sees it. With this, the Judicial Committee presents the legislative proposal and refers to the comments in the vote of a unanimous Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e361	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 80]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e377	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e384	Violence in close relationships is a major and serious social problem. A disturbingly high number of women and children are regularly exposed to violence. A study conducted by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research shows that more than every four women who have lived in pairs have been subjected to violence in current or previous circumstances. Nearly every ten women report having been subjected to potentially life-threatening violence, such as being suffocated, used weapons against or beaten their heads against an object or against the wall. In the last few weeks, there have been several cases of killing committed in close relations. A killing is the most extreme form of violence, and is often the end of a wide range of acts of violence. For the Government and the Red-Green majority, combating violence in close relations is one of the most important tasks in combating crime. This was not least underlined by the Minister of Justice’s performance earlier this week, where he presented ten measures to help stop this type of violence. These measures include, inter alia: priority should be given to disengagement by the police in the case of house noise, the establishment of a project with electronic footlinks that alerts victims of violence when they are in the vicinity, and the construction of a separate centre of competence for children who have been subjected to abuse — a child’s house. It is important that we now receive a penalty order that captures the complexity of this type of violence, as we know that violence against family members is taking place in the home and in the hidden and affecting children or women. The Committee considers it essential that police and prosecution authorities give priority to combating this type of violence. In the view of the Committee, a specific penalty order will ensure greater legal certainty and provide for the effective handling of such cases. At the same time, the Committee would point out that violence in close relationships is a complex phenomenon that includes adult children who commit violence against their parents, men who are abused by their female cohabitants or spouses, and violence in gay couples. We will therefore stress the importance of the Ministry's proposal that a legislative provision should be designed in a gender-neutral way. It is gratifying that a unanimous judiciary now recommends the Stortinget to take a decision on its own criminal order dealing with violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e399	On page 30 of Norway’s Law you will find a law called Løsgängeri, Betleri and Drunkenskab, which became valid on 31 May 1900. It's possible that it's the irony of fate, but it follows the law of infidelization that came two years earlier. That's why what's happening here today is a happy day. This means that a law that has been in force for over 100 years will now be repealed, namely the Law on Disposal. For many years SV has been concerned about removing the stamp you have given to beggars and those who have it most difficult, by criminalising the actions they are taking in an attempt to participate in some of the wealth. It is a fact that most tigers in Oslo are drug addicts, and many are waiting for treatment. It's been a crazy approach to this problem to think you could punish it away. The alternative for many of the beggars has been crime and prostitution. And the fact that you're now going to avoid being pushed into that kind of activity is good. What is important, of course, is to ask about the cause of begging as a problem, and what society can do to try to fix it. We have also seen in recent years that there have been positive initiatives among those who have been begging, among other things. is the magazine = Oslo, as we see some sellers on the street today. And we see how it also helps to do something about the dignity of participating in the same way as others with activities that are perceived as positive. SV is very happy that this law is now disappearing. And we hope that in the wake of it you can look at active measures that contribute to the cohesion of differences in society, and that fewer will fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e410	There are two quite different types of things we're dealing with in one case. I'll just make a few comments, because the vote is unanimous. First of all, with the repeal of the law on promiscuity, which we in the Christian People's Party also support. I can essentially join what Mr Ballo said. I just want to add that lately we might have seen that we have a state where it seems part of the beggar is more organized. As a resident of this city I believe to be able to see such a development, and I hear that from another team as well. That is why I am pleased that the Department intends to follow up on this by linking organised begging to the issue of trafficking in human beings, and we are looking forward to a new legislative formulation in that area as well. But a lot could indicate that there are some groups that may abuse some citizens' good will for very different purposes than what you actually think is the case, not least around the corner where we are now. Then go to the other thing. In 2003, the so-called Women's Law Committee proposed a new criminal code that specifically targets violence in close relations. We are very pleased that the Stoltenberg government has given its support to the bill as it originally existed from the Bondevik II government. Of course, I am also pleased that there is agreement on this new penalty. Finally, a brief comment to the Committee on the principle of damages: ‘The principle of non-compliance should be the starting point and the conditions for criminalisation.’ I am a little uncertain whether this is fully in line with the then Justice Department, when considering proposals for a new general part of the Penal Code. At that time a unanimous committee pointed out that ‘Punishment should initially be reserved for acts involving danger or harmful consequences’. However, the Committee also pointed out that: ‘what is referred to as ‘hazard’ or ‘a harmful consequence’ could vary’. Furthermore, the Committee considered it necessary to ‘assess concretely the consequences for each criminal offence’ before accepting decriminalisation as appropriate. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would just like to say that we stand firm on what was the current opinion of the judiciary, and I hope that is also the opinion of the current Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e439	We've talked before in this room about big and small things. All things are seen and seen both big and small, for they affect people, but in different ways. This is in many ways a small matter, but nevertheless an important matter for those affected. I fully agree with what the representative Ballo had to say about the time when this law was introduced, that it is now mature to be put to rest – if you can use such a concept. But there was one thing he wasn't into that at least for my part is important. It's that a law that no longer has functionality should be sorted out of the law collection. I think that the law should always be as up-to-date and functional as possible in relation to the way society is. It's only when you have a match between the two, and at least I think it's important. To what's going on is a criminal order against violence in close relationships: violence in close relationships is probably the worst type of crime we can imagine. We can use the term ‘crime’ to refer to a violent act that is also a criminal act. It is clear that both for children and others who are subjected to violence by their neighbors, it is a suffering that I believe challenges both them and us as legislators. How can you understand that this is happening? What is the reason a father or a mother reacts the way they do? Kids in particular are the dearest thing we have, and it's kind of incomprehensible that adults can do something like this. Anyway, it happens. This is a societal challenge, at least from my point of view. Had it been possible, one should have said that it is not allowed. Today we are dealing with a bill that it should not be allowed to do so, but it does. The offender is one reaction, but that alone probably doesn't do the job for us. Much of this goes on attitudes, on behaviors, and perhaps on teaching aggressive people to deal with their minds differently. But if none of these other options work, you have to be able to use the most serious type of punishment, in the worst case prison sentence. The Progress Party wants to signal that this type of crime is so serious that we want to say something about the criminal investigation. It is possible that the rest of the Committee considers that there is a poor starting point since the courts should have access to a discretionary assessment. At the same time, it is possible for the legislator to say something about how the punishment is supposed to be based on the severity of the acts being committed. That is why we have said that the punishment should be at least in the middle of a penalty framework to clarify the severity of these acts. Of course, it is also a political signal and a reaction signal – it should just be missing. As I said, this is one of the worst things that a human being can be exposed to. When your closest ones fail you by attacking you, we who are involved in shaping social rules have to show that we care. We do that by referring to the law, by referring to the penal framework. But we also do that when we give a signal to the courts about where we want the punishment to be, criminally. I record that several speakers want to leave it entirely to the courts. Of course, I have respect for it, even though I might have wanted an even clearer signal. I'll take note of it so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e461	In many ways, it is a historic event that is decided in a very small case of law – primarily because of the decriminalisation of a relationship in Norway by removing a criminal order, while at the same time creating a new penalty. I believe that the legislative process that has been in front of these two issues, both in terms of the prosecuting paragraph and the question of violence in close relations – where two governments have chosen to join the proposals in exactly the same line, and where two aggregates also appear to join them – clearly shows that the Storting stands together in the question of what kind of crime you actually want to focus on in the future. In my view, the proposal and the law that are now under discussion are a good expression of the course we want to take in the fight against crime in the future. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the proposal in Ot.prp. No 15 to repeal the lien law and to introduce a new penal order against violence in close relations. The Government considers in a similar way as the previous one that many of the provisions of the Law on Disposal have become obsolete. It is in practice only Section 17 on disorder, etc. in the drunk state, which is used. This is therefore proposed incorporated and passed on in Section 350 of the Penal Code, while Section 24 is continued in the alcohol legislation. The government is in favour of decriminalising general beggarage, the promiscuity law § 11. I do not think it is right to impose penalties to ask passersby for money. The discomfort of such behaviour cannot be regarded as harm and should therefore not qualify for the use of punishment. Suffering if I consider beggaring to be an undesirable phenomenon, does not solve the underlying causes, which the representative Ballo was also involved in. Social policy instruments, not criminal policy, should be used in the work to avoid people having to resort to begging. Divorce is often the result of addiction and poverty — social problems and challenges that the Government will actively combat. Governments take the growing poverty and poverty problem seriously, which is central to our political platform and work. We will fight against increasing poverty and, at the same time, combat growing drug use, both legal and illegal. Police have raised objections to the lifting of the penalty for begging, among others. Because you're losing a banishment home. It is important to clarify that threatening or qualifying harassment will continue to be punishable by other criminal penalties, such as: on threats, disorder, reckless behaviour and coercion. In addition, there are other forms of expulsion in the legislation. The rules on the expulsion of foreigners may also be applicable in some cases. In addition, the police have direct authority under Section 7 of the Police Act to expel beggars who disturb public order. It may also be appropriate to allow police regulations to regulate threatening and qualifying harassment. Otherwise – and in line with the representative Syversen – I want forced begging to be detected and combated. The backers here must be taken and, as the Committee is aware, the Ministry of Justice has sent to the hearing a proposal to amend Section 224 of the Criminal Code on Trafficking in Human Beings, so that it is explicitly affected by the provision to exploit or induce some to beg. The hearing period is set at 6 January next year, and I will ensure a quick follow-up and come back to Stortinget with this. I am also very pleased that the Committee has acceded to the proposal for a new upgraded penal code against family violence. Violence in close relationships is a serious and often hidden social problem, with great consequences for those affected. In recent times, there has been a significant focus on domestic violence, among other things. was known as the theme of this year's TV action. The government is very concerned that this type of violence should be prevented and combated by a variety of measures. An effective criminal order targeting the perpetrator is an important instrument in this fight and will significantly strengthen the position of the victims. However, I would like to stress that getting a sentence that clearly captures cases of violence in close relations does not mean that we have not had prisons in the past in relation to such problems, but this is a clarification. Nor should we allow this to become a resting place in relation to other measures that we can put in place as politicians in relation to violence in close relations. It has often functioned like punishment frames and law paragraphs. I hope that this legal provision can just be a starting point for increased efforts to combat violence in close relationships. We have to get the percentage of information in these kinds of cases. We're forced to get the police to go into these matters much more. And we have to have an assistive device that can catch up to a much greater extent, for example. with mediation, counselling and treatment. In this way I understand that the committee is also interested in being part of that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 82]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e500	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 85]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e516	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 85]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e532	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 35 minutes and that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e539	In the present proposition that Odelstinget has to deal with today, proposals are being made for the law on the dissolution of the Ekeberg family house, so that the owner of the house can dispose of the capital relating to the house as free property. According to the Danish web dictionary Wikipedia is a main house “a good that was to be inherited for nothing by the eldest son. It was tax-free, but in return it could not be sold’. The same lexicon points out that this has been an old scheme that was closed in Denmark in 1919. So in Norway, we still have this kind of tribal house. They are mentioned in Norway's Lover, both in the Law of 1888 and in the Law of 1927, and the Law of 1927 mentions Rosendal and Jarlsberg. With the closure of the Ekeberg family house, only the Jarlsberg family house will be left. How long it will last, remains to be seen. You could probably have given a talk on the development of Norwegian barons, but I'll leave it. Instead, I'm going to point to a lot of other things, which are far more fragile. So there are a number of legislative amendments here, and for the sake of order and for the sake of the overview and the annals, I'm going to review them. In the summary proposal, the Court of Justice bill proposes that the King be able to decide in the regulation that an appeal procedure on the use of remote meeting technology on premises listed in the legal text itself be established. There are so many premises that I don't bring them here. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, support the Government's legislative amendment, while the Progress Party wants the system to be more comprehensive. It's important that you have the opportunity to try out a new system, and this is where you get the idea that the King can make a regulation about it. It will be exciting to assess the impact of the use of remote meeting technology in the judiciary and its usefulness. The right promotes a proposal for the Government to ‘propose a case for the possible extension of the experimental system using videoconferencing technology and remote meeting technology by 2007’, and the Right is alone on the proposal. It will be important to evaluate the scheme when it becomes a pilot scheme. How fast can you do that and expand it, you'll see. At least the majority will wait to look at it. The proposal proposes that the task of assuming permanent defenders be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the administration of the Court of Justice. A unanimous committee joins it. Applications for compensation for victims of violence are decided by the Office for the Compensation of Victims of Violence at first instance, while the title of compensation for victims of violence is the Board of Appeal. The proposed amendment is based on the fact that cases which do not raise significant doubts can be decided by the director of the victim compensation panel alone, and that in such cases the decision-making authority may also be delegated to the justice secretariats. The proposed amendment is intended to facilitate the procedure and make it less bureaucratic. The Committee agrees with this intention but has nevertheless come to the conclusion that the legislative proposal should be seen in conjunction with other proposals to amend the Act on the Compensation of Victims of Violence notified by the Government in 2006. On that basis, the majority proposes that the Odelstinget should not take decisions in accordance with the Government's proposal here, while the Progress Party is firmly committed to the Government's original proposal. At least as far as I can see, the legal text is the same. The Ministry proposes an amendment to the Law on Coverage to transfer compensation under Chapter 3 of the Law on Coverage from the County to the Constitutional Supervision. The rationale is that the tasks under the different provisions of the Coverage Act Chapter 3 should lie with the same body. It ends up with a unanimous committee. The Ministry also proposes changes to the law on mortgages and the law on enforcement as a result of conversion from the right of lease to the right of residence to share apartments. Several of the changes are purely a consequence of changes from rental to residence, and a number of legislative amendments thus become purely technical in nature as a consequence of changing concepts. An overall committee joins the changes. In addition — at the end — it is proposed to amend the Law on Legal Aid. Amendment of the Law on Legal Aid has already been adopted which aims primarily at simplifying the legislation and making it more predictable for users. The Act enters into force on 1 January 2006. During the period prior to the entry into force of the Act, the Stortinget has adopted various changes to the Law on Legal Aid as it now stands. In order to bring the amending law into line with the applicable law, these changes need to be continued and are therefore of a formal nature. A unanimous committee agrees with the changes. I hope this is now ready for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e580	There is broad consensus across the parties that courts should be more adapted to information and communication technologies. Some of the activities in the justice sector have used videoconferencing equipment as a tool for improving resource use and efficiency. The Progress Party believes that there are significant efficiency potentials in the use of such a technology. The proposition that lies ahead of us today points to a number of factors that show that using such technology can save a lot of resources, in the long term, in the entire web. I can show that the police are currently using considerable resources for the transport of custody prisoners to the production of justice. Today, we see that police-trained personnel are a scarce resource that should be used primarily for tasks requiring police professional competence. Just the prisoner transport alone in Oslo police district cost over 100 million. DKK in 2004. By expanding the use of remote meetings and remote interrogations, both money and resources will be saved. It will also apply in civil matters. Increased use of video conferencing in remote and remote meetings will save resources. Positive experience has been gained in Northern Ireland through the pilot project on the use of videoconferencing. All the hearing bodies have been very positive in extending the use of such technology in court proceedings. However, the extent to which such technology is to be used is not fully agreed among the parties. As the batch of progress sees it, a test scheme should be as broad as possible, in order to provide the best possible basis of experience. Several of the hearing opinions go in order to allow the use of remote meetings also for first time in prison. The Progress Party fully agrees with this. The Party considers that the use of remote technology should not be subject to suspected or accused consent. The Progress Party fully agrees with the consultation opinions that it may be unfortunate if targeted targets can be given an actual position that can be exploited. The Progress Party will therefore promote the two proposals contained in the vote. One is about remote technology, and the other is about compensation for victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e593	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e596	The rapporteur has made a clear statement on the matter, and an overall committee has agreed to an extended probationary system using videoconferencing and remote meetings to improve the effectiveness of the case resolution. Now we're going to put the formal basis into place through our own jurisdiction in the court order. It must be allowed to say that it is important to make good progress in the criminal justice chain and in the criminal proceedings in Norway. It's an ongoing challenge, and we see that in this context, the use of new technologies can be one important tool and tool. Like the representative of the Progress Party here, we already believe that the introduction and use of new technologies will result in more rational use of resources in the justice sector. The extension of the appeal procedure in 2006 will provide us with additional grounds for considering how new technology could possibly be put into effect at all national courts as soon as possible. Against this background, the Right has proposed that the Government should file a case for a possible extension of the pilot scheme using videoconferencing and remote technology by the end of 2007. The aim must now be to enable the review system to be made permanent and to enable all courts of the country to benefit from the tools and tools provided by this type of new technology. As shown here, we're not alone in trying this out. Other countries have done so, and the results are only positive. I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e611	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e614	I'll be very short. I just want to sign back to the committee. There is no doubt that the Government believes that it is essential that we now get more speed into the criminal proceedings. In this way, I very much agree with Right Elisabeth Aspaker in assessing the appropriateness of using new technology. It is also a very important moment that, especially in relation to prison cases and some other more curative court meetings, the people who are to be involved in matters are also spared the implementation of such a technology. So this could have a lot of advantages. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that, with regard to the introduction of such technology, it is still important that we take care of the legal security concerns that apply, such as: have been pointed out by the Hearing Officers in the case, and which relate in particular to the right of people to be physically presented to a court, to have a meeting and to feel that they are present to explain their case. It will well be characterized by many as a human right. I note, however, the proposal of the Advance Party in relation to the question of assessing whether, in any case, it is possible to disregard the declaration of consent. I will take it with me in the further work, to see if it is possible to do it even more rationally, without going at the expense of the legal security guarantee. I can see that. I am also pleased that the Right is concerned that we should extend the trial scheme. I definitely think that's going to be the result of this, but we need time to evaluate it. Another important point is that the courts actually have to be able to apply such technology. Then there's one task to get them into new warehouses, and get that job done, and then we have to put the technology in place. In this way, I will at least acknowledge to the Committee and Odelstinget that we will come back as quickly as we can in relation to this, because here's a lot to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e625	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 86]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e639	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e647	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate, the proposal No. 1–6, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that apprentices be exempted from public service pension rules.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e667	The President will first vote on the proposal No. 2–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Proposal for a law on compulsory occupational retirement provision is amended as follows: § 1, first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: Persons in the enterprise each having a working time and remuneration of 25 pst. or more of a full-time job and carrying out a total of at least two annual work.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Proposal for a Law on Compulsory Occupational Pensions is amended as follows: § 2 new fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:New enterprises shall have pension schemes under the Occupational Pensions Act or the Pensions Pensions Act established 1 year after the conditions of this Act have been fulfilled.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 24 November 2000 81 on the contribution pension in employment is amended as follows: § 2-3, first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: Persons in the enterprise who each have a working time and salary of 25 pst. [[Investment Pensions Act]] or more of a full-time job and carrying out a total of at least two annual work.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In the Law of 24 November 2000 No. 81 on the contribution pension in employment is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 2-3 is replaced by the following:An enterprise not included in the first paragraph where the owner or holder of the enterprise has a working time and remuneration in the enterprise of 75 pst. [[Investment Pensions Act]] or more of a full-time job, a pension scheme may be established under this Act. The scheme may not exceed the maximum pension scheme requirements under the compulsory occupational pension law.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 24 March 2000 16 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows:Section 2-2, first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: Persons in the enterprise who each have a working time and salary of 25 pst. [[Entrepreneurship Pensions Act]] or more of a full-time job and carrying out a total of at least two annual work.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e984	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e996	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumed that the Advance Party would vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1010	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1018	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a draft Constitution for a State pension fund aimed at ensuring in the long term the accrued-to-date pension rights of members of the population, based on pension contributions from members and employers and fund returns.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1161	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1173	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1185	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1459	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1469	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1551	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1561	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1642	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e1652	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2015	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2025	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2455	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2465	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2531	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2541	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2582	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2592	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2600	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of Right. The suggestion from the Right sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for any extension of the pilot scheme using videoconferencing technology and remote meeting technology by 2007’.» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e2694	To the new § 143 there is a dissenting proposal from the Progress Party, proposal No. 1, which reads: ‘In Law 13 August 1915, No. 5 concerning courts shall be amended as follows:New Section 143 shall be replaced by the following:The King may provide for the establishment of a system of redress in certain courts and tribunals for the use of remote meeting technology in preparatory and main proceedings, including the conclusion of legal settlements, as well as for the handling of criminal matters, including criminal proceedings, and for the hearing of witnesses, experts and the use of interpretation services.» [[Court of Justice]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e3203	Then it says that we should vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 20 April 2001 13 on compensation from the State for personal injury caused by criminal offences, etc. The following shall be amended as follows:Article 13 new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:In cases which do not raise significant doubts, the Director may grant applications for compensation for victims of violence. [[law on compensation for victims of violence]] This applies only where the application is granted as requested and no changes are made to the claim. In such cases, the corresponding power to grant applications to the Justice Secretariat may also be delegated.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e3222	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e3232	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower-2.ana.ud595e3243	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - It hasn't happened.
