ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e30	The review of the Government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state gives us an important opportunity to take stock of key environmental areas and to move forward towards achieving environmental policy objectives. This is the second review of the state of the kingdom's environment presented by this government. Both this and the previous communication on the state of the state of the state of the kingdom have shown that we have a government with a more ambitious environmental policy than we have seen in the past. Both this Minister for the Environment and the previous one has given environmental policy a revitalisation. Although the challenges remain high in some areas, over 30 years of environmental work has produced results. We have come a long way in reducing and cleaning emissions from industrial and municipal waste streams from cities and agglomerations. Economic development, technological progress and increased environmental awareness have overcome many serious environmental problems. It is not accidental that the spread of the market economy has been parallel to a better environment. Or to put it another way, we've come the farthest way to solve the environmental challenges in countries with market economies. In the former Eastern bloc countries, we know too well what the environment was like. Today, we find the main environmental challenges in these countries as well as in developing countries. This in no way means that all environmental problems are overcome in our part of the world. The Communication on the State of the State of the State points to areas where we have had environmental progress in recent years, but it also points to a number of areas where development is more complex. In some areas, the message states that we are moving in a wrong direction in relation to the results targets. These are the challenges we have to take seriously. Therefore, there is a need for increased focus on current environmental challenges, both nationally and internationally. Norway is a rich country, and we have the ability and resources to secure our own environment for future generations. We have a special responsibility to participate actively in reducing global environmental pressures and in the fight against poverty. Both national and international are one of the main challenges in the years to come to reduce biodiversity loss. The government has a goal of halting the loss of biodiversity here in the country by 2010. This is an ambitious objective. The diversity of life forms is the basis of human existence, quality of life and well-being. Biodiversity has been developed naturally over a long period of time and through cultural influences. Right will take care of this diversity for future generations. If we are to ensure biodiversity, we must also safeguard the areas where the species live. Then we don't get away from forest protection. Nearly half of the approximately 3000 species currently included in the national red list of endangered species live in forests. Forest protection is therefore essential in order to preserve biodiversity. All experience suggests that private ownership is a prerequisite for ensuring sound management of environmental values and resources. Private property rights and personal responsibility are linked and are also necessary in order to safeguard nature. Respect for private property must also apply in the field of forest protection. Unfortunately, we have seen unfortunate conflicts between landowners and environmental management in just forest protection. That is why I am pleased that when we dealt with the last biggest report on the state of the state of the kingdom in cooperation with the forest owners' organisations, we came to a solution where we went from conflict to cooperation through a voluntary protection system. This must be a key strategy for future forest protection. This government has given the environmental work a new one. One area where we see this particularly clearly is the creation of national parks. Last month at the latest, the 25th National Park of the country was established. It was Folgefonna National Park in my home state of Hordaland. This is one of Norway's most beautiful areas, with white bream, green lire and blue fjord. While protecting more, the Government has given greater openings to combinations between protection and use. Although an area is protected, it must continue to be possible to have a reasonable view of nutrition and other activities which do not affect the protection values. I am therefore pleased that the Government has lifted the ban on commercial tourism, which we had in some national parks. If we are to be accepted by local landowners and the local population, it is important to find flexible solutions that can combine use and protection. At the same time, landowners who get the economic value of their property reduced as a result of protection must have an economic compensation for that loss of value. Outdoor activities, whether in pristine nature or in more developed areas, are important for the well-being and health of the population. Outdoor life is strong in Norway, and a pillar here is the Norwegian All-man's right. The right will turn around and maintain the public's right to free movement in the outland. Most of the areas in Norway are on private land. Therefore, all-man rights will always be the most important thing to give the population the opportunity to get into nature. But as a complement to this, it is also important that public spending on natural pearls that have been in public ownership, on the part of the public. I am therefore pleased that in connection with the changes in the Defence Department, a number of previous defence properties have now become available. All-man rights must be combined with respect for people's privacy and private property rights. Private owners of land must respect the public's right to free movement in land. At the same time, as we move out, we must show consideration for privacy. One of the most serious environmental threats we face today is health and environmental hazards. Environmental toxins are heavily degradable, and they remain in nature for a long time. In recent years, we have become more and more aware of the dangers associated with pollutants such as PCBs and brominated flame retardants. I am pleased that the Government has taken this threat seriously and prioritises the fight against new environmentally hazardous emissions and remediation in old environmental sins. It is also great that there is a broad support for the Government's action plan on chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment, where emissions of pollutants should be stopped by 2020. Fortunately, it is not only in Norway that the fight against chemicals that are harmful to health and the environment is high on the political agenda. The EU proposal for new chemicals legislation, the REACH Regulation, will be the main instrument for both reducing the spread of environmental pollutants through products and providing increased knowledge of the large number of chemical substances on the market. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the importance of Norway being active in the implementation of this legislation. In this context I also refer to a letter we received from the Nordic Council today on the occasion of the case. I would like to underline the importance of the work currently being done in the EU and that we in Norway have the same rules in this area as they do in the EU, so that Norwegian companies have the same conditions to deal with them in the countries around us. An example of this is global work on greenhouse gas emissions through the Kyoto Agreement. Norway has committed itself to our emissions to be 1 pst. above 1990 levels of emissions. Reaching this goal will be a challenging task. It needs to be achieved both through national measures and through the international quota system to be in place in 2008. Norway has also undertaken ambitious international commitments in international agreements on long-range air pollution. The main challenge in the future is to reduce Norway’s annual emissions of NOx by about 30 pst. by 2010, in line with the obligation of the Gothenburg Protocol. This obligation requires Norway to implement significant emission reductions of NOx in the years ahead. Domestic shipping and fishing provide about 40 pst. of Norwegian emissions. It is therefore particularly in this sector that we find the greatest potential for emission reductions. It is essential to achieve the objectives of the Gothenburg Protocol that the authorities and industry have a common understanding of Norway’s reputation and that it is actively contributed by all parties. In this context, I would like to point out the previous NOx reduction programme, and that the programme is now being continued at the request of Stortingen, including through state resources. The measures can be implemented up to 30-year-old engines and therefore the potential for emission reductions is very high. With this government’s main focus – I would say – on this in the Communication and the Minister for the Environment’s knowledge and commitment, I have faith that we will be able to achieve the objectives of the Gothenburg Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e81	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e84	On page 17 of my copy of the big message I have noted the word ‘jöss!’ in the margin. Here's what it says: ‘The government wants Norway to have a driving role in the pursuit of a more ambitious climate agreement after 2012.’» Right, that's no surprise. I knew that well. But here we go. ‘By being outside the EU, we have both opportunities and a responsibility to play an important role.’ This is something that people on the no-page have claimed ever since the last EU debate started, but it is good to have it confirmed in a big message from the Ministry of the Environment. You can wonder whether it is the Minister for the Environment who has changed his point of view in the EU case or whether it is a bureaucrat who has expressed his opinion. On page 120, there is reason to believe that the EU will play a less active role in the future due to enlargement. My question is now: Do the Right and the representative Halleraker agree that Norway has more opportunity to play a role in international environmental policy outside the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e103	Then we're about to start the EU debate, maybe? I see what is being quoted from the representative of Konglevoll, as a fact of what we are doing now, when we are outside the EU. However, there must be no doubt that EU environmental policies in a number of areas are actually much more ambitious, and have been, than many other countries, that have been outside. So joining the European Union and being part of the mutual commitments that lie there, I think we're also going to have a great deal of use and joy in environmental policy. So far as this government's position on the European Union is concerned. I think the same issues will be noticed quite quickly in negotiations between the red-greens about their government options.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e108	After the National Court meeting, I received telephone calls from some right-wing people who told me that the Right had turned to the view of national salmon fjords. I have not been able to find out, but there should have been a resolution at the Right National Meeting that you will not have more national salmon rivers and salmon fjords until you have evaluated the effect of those who are already. At least that seems to us to be a sensible policy. We've always warned against having an old-fashioned passive land protection system, which is national salmon fjords and salmon watercourses, simply because you can't prove any effect. It also helps to prevent industrial activity in districts. So I just want to ask the representative Halleraker: does the Right come with a new view in this case as new research documents that you haven't had the effect that there has been a passive land protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e115	I think it is nice that the National Court's meeting will also be passed on to the Advance Party. I can confirm that this was a matter that had a lot of attention at the Right National Meeting. It was also a matter of great attention in the nutrition committee, in connection with a matter that was discussed earlier in spring in support of the topic. That's absolutely right. The Court’s national meeting concluded that in our programme for the next period, we recommend that we evaluate round one before moving on – for different reasons, among others. those who the representative of Korsberg took up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e120	The right, together with the majority of the Committee, is to note that Norway is to be an environmental priority country. It's a goal we share, and it's true that we're not today. At least we are not when it comes to protecting biodiversity. Sweden, Finland and Australia have done much more than we have done. Neither are we when it comes to oil protection. The Baltic Sea countries and Canada are far ahead of us. It's a long way to go before we can say that we're the best in the class in terms of reducing NOx pollution. We're not the best class of chemicals either. We used to be that, but now for a few years we've basically just been waiting for an EU directive. We're not the best on climate. We also used to be. We were the first country in the world to adopt a national climate change objective. Now we are among those who are far from achieving the Kyoto target. And we're not the best in the waste area either. If you look with a magnifying glass, I think you can find some other area, but it would be interesting to know: where is the Right that we think is a country of the past, and where is the Right that it is important that we should be a country of the past in the environmental field in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e130	I thought I had just made a 10 minute post in which I presented the Right View of Environmental Policy. Of course, we agree with what is contained in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom. I also pointed out that we haven't gotten far enough in a number of areas. It would be inappropriate to repeat it now, but we take that recognition inwards – I think we all have to do that – that we have to go further in this work. But I would like to point out that, for example, in the field of biodiversity, we have actually done a lot of work during this ageing period that has helped to get users involved in solutions that I think we should see good results from. Because if you're going to have a nuance in it, which is Right Policy here, I think we best achieve our goals by involving users and actors who know where the shoe prints, in common understanding to achieve the goals that we all want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e135	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e138	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for the job done with the setting. Everyone who browses the message sees that there is a quite extensive message, so there is a lot of work to do. Of course, that is not all I agree with, but I think it has done a good job in terms of the scope. Environmental protection policies are important. You have to protect health, life and what humanity is concerned about. At the same time, nature must be safeguarded both for itself and not least for future generations, by not overloading ecosystems. But at the same time, it is important to think about making things easier for you to live off here in order to have a business policy that makes each one have a meaningful job to do. In terms of environmental protection, it is important to put some basic things in place, including: international environmental agreements. We see the challenges faced in the polar regions, with pollution transported far away from farms. We see the conditions in the case of acid rain, where we have to spend quite a lot of money to counteract the adverse effects. Unfortunately, the different governments are cutting off funds for liming, but the Advance Party and other parties are fighting to get this in place. Agreements are also in place with regard to emissions of CO2. We are not so excited about this, because Norway has negotiated a historically poor agreement. But all of this shows that you're going to have to get somewhere, you have to put in place international agreements. The problem is often that special strict regimes are introduced from the Norwegian side. Therefore, it is with disappointment that I note that two of the proposals we have here today, to refrain from imposing special environmental taxes and to abolish special environmental taxes, do not get a majority. It is disappointing, and it is particularly disappointing that the Right would not be involved, against such discrimination against Norwegian businesses in relation to some of the countries with which we compete. But we just get to register that this is the way it is. One thing most people are concerned about is the possibility of outdoor life and the possibility of building a cabin — perhaps to the irritation of some. But if you are building a cabin, you will at least have the opportunity to facilitate an outdoor life. I record that when the message came, there were many who were out there warning against the policy of the government in terms of cabin construction. It is therefore planned to build cabins in Hallingdal for nearly 15 billion dollars in the coming years. There was a clear warning from Matz Sandman, who has read the message and sees that there are clear leads so that you can help stick the screws in the wheels. We in the Progress Party will strongly warn against this. I'm not going to have a new debate on the Finnish Law, but when it was discussed here in the Chamber, you did the very opposite of what else you do. Otherwise, the socialist parties in particular are very good at highlighting how important it is for defence property to be outsourced to the public, as is the beach zone. In the case of Finnmark, you do the opposite. You actually privatise a lot of Finnmark property, and it's strange to me that you can do such a thing. But I am fully aware that Finnmark is much further away than part of the other areas, which are much closer to both Akersgata and Stortinget. Finally, I will be allowed to mention this with the environmental zone, which is the new creative proposal of the Environment Minister to stop oil drilling in the north. I expect the Right to clarify its point of view during the debate, because I have registered that Højres Ivar Kristiansen, who sits on the nutrition committee, is in a rage that this environmental zone is intended to be introduced, and warns against it most strongly. Then it could be quite good to get a clarification from the Right in this matter if one wants to stand together in terms of the introduction of the environmental zone, or if it is such that the Right representatives are allowed to speak freely otherwise, but when they come into this room, they are whipped in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e159	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e162	It is interesting to hear the representatives of the Progress Party complaining and complaining about the Government all the time, while ensuring that it can continue the deficient policy – which the Progress Party clearly believes it has – with the support of the Advance Party in this House. Norway must be a leading country in environmental policy. In order for future generations to have access to good environment and clean nature, environmental considerations must be comprehensive in everything we do. The environment must be ensured through international cooperation, where each country assumes its responsibilities. ‘Norway shall comply with the obligations we have assumed internationally.’ This is what the Committee initially writes in its comments – all but the Advance Party. Does the President-in-Office of the Council believe that a comprehensive environmental perspective is not necessary to preserve the environment for the next generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e174	I must admit that this government is better off than a socialist government, which can be the alternative. At least we have an opportunity to influence this government. If it were to become a socialist majority after the election, we wouldn't have the opportunity to influence. Not all the organizations and individuals who come here to the Storting every single day will have a great opportunity to influence a socialist majority. It worries me and probably some others. In terms of environmental considerations, I think there will be a big difference between what the Progress Party puts into the word environmental considerations, and what, for example, the Socialist Left Party puts into it, what SV puts in front of the var-principle, and what the Progress Party possibly puts in front of the var-principle. So here you really have to look at the different interpretations the parties have. I believe that on the basis of the comments in the vote, the representative Klungland will also find out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e181	The representative of Korsberg was busy keeping the international obligations. I would then like to congratulate the Progress Party on the fact that they are now in favour of the Berne Convention in relation to predators in Norway. It's a big step forward that now it's only the Center Party that will have a border guard on the Swedish border to shoot the wolf when he gets here. So congratulations on that. Then I have a question associated with the Progress Party being the guarantor of the existing government. Now four years have passed, and one has guaranteed this government. Ein has e.g. called at gas power plants, and has not received it. They've got one on Snow White, but they haven't got all the gas power plants that Korsberg wants. One has also not been able to build up the Web, which one has also wanted, and one has not been able to lay as much ground under the asphalt as the Progress Party wants. Should an environmental policy in the government negotiations also do so in the revised budget, sell for buttons and slides, or my Progress Party seriously with its environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e188	International obligations and predators – I am glad that I got that line, because then I can establish that the progress party predator policy is exactly the same today as when we dealt with the predatory message last year. There was a debate at the national meeting on wolf or not wolf, and it was those who were most committed both on the one hand and on the other who led a debate on it. But these predators are to be managed locally and regionally. Those are the ones who have the shoe on and know where it presses, who must be allowed to make these decisions. So the representative mentioned Langeland gas power plants, asphalt and some other things. Now it's like we're getting more involved with this government than we would if it were a socialist majority, because then we wouldn't have had any opportunity to be involved and influence politics. After all, a socialist majority will bring Norway back to its development for decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e195	In the first section of the note on waste and recovery, the Progress Party welcomes the need for waste policy to reduce the damage from waste on humans and the natural environment, and for the development of generated waste to be lower than economic growth. But in the section below, the Progress Party does not realize that it is positive that one now is equal by reaching the goal of 75 pst. the waste shall be recovered and does not support the Government’s proposal to increase the target to 80 pst. recovery. So the question is, how does it feel that you can't be involved? There's a direct contradiction in these two paragraphs. I thought maybe the Progress Party also saw the value of getting more recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e202	In the case of waste, it is a little bit difficult to figure the exact percentage. What I think you have to include in such a debate is that we live in a country with enormous distances. Obviously, you can have a measure of 75 pst. or 80 pst. recovery, but then I think you have to take the whole calculation – how much energy you use for transport, the air pollution that is involved in such transport, and the entire calculation. It has never been presented in a credible way. It's one of the important things to talk about recovery and energy. Otherwise, I will show that there are also some things happening internationally, including: for the ban on the landfill of textiles, there is an opportunity to do something about the kind of things that will be a challenge in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e209	The cord shift is over. The President must ask the representative of Korsberg if he took up the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e214	Yes, I did – right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e219	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg then raised the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e222	Let me also start by thanking the President-in-Office for his efforts. There's going to be something of the last thing she gets done here in the house, after having a relatively high commitment to environmental issues to get away from the Workers' Party. Then I would also like to thank the Labour Party for now participating in ten of SV's more than 40 proposals in relation to an environmental reform. When we think about the fall, we will try together to create a new government that will do something about environmental policy as well. Almost all parties say that Norway should be a leading country in environmental policy – in a good environment, in a pure nature. Almost everyone says Norway has to meet its international commitments on the environment. And, say almost all the parties, there is a need for revitalisation of environmental policy and greater environmental ambitions. That's not bad. There's something about today's politics. So at the end of the period, the majority recognize that there is a need for greater environmental ambitions. And when you look at the behaviour of the majority during this Bondevik administration, it's relatively easy to understand. SV therefore promotes the need for environmental reform, and promotes it today, through the many proposals we have here today. At the same time, we are responding to this need for environmental reform in the revised budget, interconnecting with, for example, the budget. CO2 injection offshore to drive out more oil and reduce the greenhouse gas problem, for a revision of the Energy Act, and for an increase in green travel life. There are two government parties that warn SV against entering a possible new, red-green government, because the environment will lose in the fight against the protection break people in the Center Party and the climate bandits in the Labour Party. To this concern, I would like to say the following: they know what they are talking about, because with this government environmental issues have been lost in most areas every day, but especially after a course with SV in climate and protection policy. The exception is what Halleraker was into, and it's stamping the national park area, and that's good. But it's an exception. Because on environmental issues, this minority government is experts at losing, or said in another way, experts at the Right get their will. And for those who come along on climate and environmental issues, it's not surprising. This government – even if it continues – will depend on the Progress Party. And that should be a little counter to saying that the government guarantor Progress Party is a guarantor of better environmental policy: the Progress Party is for the protection of watercourses. The Progress Party is for the CO2 management of gas power plants, the Progress Party is for the Kyoto agreement, the Progress Party is for the reduction of noise and traffic pollution – one is saying it is not entirely correct. So there's something about this government, when it has to have the Progress Party with as a guarantor. The government is not influenced by an ambitious environmental policy. This is probably the reason why the government party itself is some of the SV in that environmental policy needs to be revitalised. In addition, if we take the concrete examples, the need for SV's environmental reform will be made public, as well as the need for a revitalisation of environmental policy. For what has happened to this government? We've got the opening of the Barents Sea and the first poison discharge there. We have increased activity. We have got the Snow White field and the construction of highly impurising gas power plants there – we think that Bondevik I left at the gas power station on 9 March 2000. We have had a reduction of beautiful waterfalls, among others. in Sauda, Rogaland. We're 10 pst. over our emissions obligations in relation to the Kyoto agreement. And Hareide and Bondevik are at risk of having to lay the foundation stone of highly impurising gas power plants on Kårstø already to the autumn. That is the reality. So it's one thing that the government of Bondevik you went off on five years ago. My comment is that it is going to be very little for a new, red-green government to be better than this government on environmental issues. But it's not that SV will be happy with the little thing that is possible to improve. We want an environmental reform. We want Norway as an environmental nation. Then the voters will decide to the fall what heavy environmental movement and SV gets in this new government option. The guarantee is that with a stronger SV, there will be better and more offensive environmental policies in Norway. But to frighten by a bad environmental policy if it becomes a new, socialist – red danger – red-green government, is certainly good, when we see what today's blue-mare government stands for in environmental policy. So SV is going in for an environmental reform to make Norway an environmental nation. And let me mention some headlines -- they're superior. We therefore need to concreteise the National Action Plan on Sustainable Development, the National Agenda, in a completely different way from that of this government. Here it's too little effort. SV should sharpen that profile in a new government. In relation to ownership, what do we see when it applies, for example: State power? Yes, they build gas power plants on Kårstø. They invest in gas power plants in Europe. So one just lets state companies do whatever they want, without direction. SV will do something about it. Of course, we will also ensure that Statoil, which was privatised – with the LO and the Labour Party at its head – gets a completely different environmental profile from what they have today, among others. by ensuring that they carry out CO2 injection, more oil extraction and landfilling of the greenhouse gas CO2 in the Gulfax field. Of the 39 proposals that SV has today, there is only one that gets multiples. But it's positive, seen with SV's eyes, that the Labour Party supports ten of our proposals. It's pointing in one direction. Finally, some headlines that SV will focus on in its work with Norway as an environmental nation: Protection and biological deficiency: For example, this government has a very low investment in marine research – 5 million. kr, I believe it was, for the MAREANO project for research on coral reefs and on the bottom of the sea. We have to get a real bet there – and there will be a real bet, with SV. Then we have to get a completely different bet on green travel life. SV has a document no. Eight proposals relate to the protection area and national parks. We need a massive effort there. So we must not just be for import bans when it comes to tropical timber, as SV and the Workers' Party propose today. We must also take care of our own rainforest, the rainforest. That's why it's one of our proposals today. On the environmental side, there is a lot to do. It illustrates the many scandals that are now emerging around the country, most recently in North Norway, linked to landfills and leaks of environmental pollutants into nature. Here one has to make sure to have a different policy, and then one has to make sure that one gets turned around evidence within the harmful production code. With this, I take up the suggestions that SV has alone or together with others – so it will not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e273	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The president just wants to make it clear that it's not nice to call some environmental bandits and blue mares. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e280	In one of the comments that the Workers' Party and SV agree in the setting, we write that we will ‘repatriate Norway as an environmental policy country’. In the word ‘repatriation’, it is precisely acknowledged that Norway has been an environmental policy priority country, but it is not today. In my opinion, Norway was in fact a leading country under Gro Harlem Brundtland as Prime Minister and Thorbjørn Berntsen as Minister for the Environment. When the sitting government boasts that it protects national parks, it does nothing but follow up the national park plan presented by Thorbjørn Berntsen, and as the Stortinget treated more than ten years ago. I would like to think that when SVs are also going to sum up, for example. the 33 years since the Ministry of Environment was established, it has been when the Labour Party has been in government that things have happened in the environmental field. So my question to Langeland is: When SV wants to return to Norway as an environmental nation, does he have in mind former worker party governments or former bourgeois governments?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e291	For SV's part, we are not so busy stamping out governments in the past and their efforts, but there is no doubt that Gro and Rio have a sound internationally. We are primarily concerned with the future policy, but we recorded that Bondevik had respect in environmental motions and in SV when he left on 9 March 2000 because he would not build the highly impure gas power plants that the Workers' Party would force on him. As I said, we're concerned that Norway should be an environmental nation. We therefore welcome the fact that the Labour Party is involved in proposals such as this. go to the beach zone, which goes outdoors, which goes on things that are important for the rights of all persons. There's the Workers' Party on the right course. If you continue that course, you can get something real together. That's what SV is working on, even if Konglevoll can't be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e298	In the right, we are committed to preserving our biodiversity and are therefore concerned with forest protection. It's also the Socialist Left Party. I therefore wonder that the party is not in a majority opinion where the rest of the committee refers to the discussion of St.meld. No 42 for 2000-2001, Biological diversity, and the main focus placed on forest protection and cooperation with forest industries, and that this should also be a leading principle in further work in the field of forest protection. Is it so that the Socialist Left does not think that a good dialogue with the forest industry is necessary to find good results for all parties? Or is it the case here, as in so many other ways within the policies of the Socialist Left Party, that private owners can only be ignored, and that protection should cost and be content with conflict in order to be able to characterize the result as good?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e305	For a socialist party, it is clear that universal rights, access to nature and the general requirement for protection are more important than private property rights. If a private individual owns a forest that should absolutely have been protected, which he will not at all protect, but which is extremely important internationally for the biological deficiency, right to the seventh and last only to say that no, then we have to accept the landowner, and then we have to give the bluff in the biological deficiency. It does not make SV. We see the biological deficiency and the value of having and developing the species that we have, leading private ownership. That's good socialist policy. Biological deficiency is not important for the Right People, if they are not willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e310	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e313	Environmental policy represents one of the most important policy areas of the coming years. The environment is threatened, a challenge that requires active and ambitious commitment from us to reverse unfortunate developments. This is supported by significant research efforts and investigations both within and outside Norway. Environmental policy is a multiplicity of subjects, from the seemingly small and locally anchored commitment to the major global challenges. Many of the challenges need to be seen in a long-term perspective. The impact of developments we see today will only become fully effective in the long run. Nevertheless, remedial action needs to be taken. As politicians, we are obliged today to take measures to combat some dramatic consequences years in advance. It is irresponsible not to take seriously the ability of our descendants to breathe in clean air, drink clean water and experience beautiful natural features of running water and rich biodiversity. The Government addresses many of the main challenges of environmental policy in the Communication. It points to the will to continue the offensive effort to ensure better conditions for the environment based on the precautionary principle and the objective of sustainable development. I am pleased that, through the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, we are regularly given the opportunity for a review of the status, while at the same time looking at the possibilities for organising new small and larger steps in the right direction in environmental policy. The majority also writes that in key environmental areas significant improvements have been made both nationally and internationally, while in other areas we are still facing major challenges. This is particularly true in relation to climate problems, health and environmental chemicals and biodiversity. In all these areas, the Government has taken important initiatives. An own climate notification is presented and discussed. The same applies to biodiversity. Over the period, environmental policy has been characterised by some characteristics and lines of conflict: the relationship between protection and use, protection and industry, city and country, oil against fish, property and all human rights and national responsibility versus international cooperation. It is my opinion that the Government has a balanced approach to all these issues in various ways. Climate challenges are major. The discussion of what are natural fluctuations, and the impact of anthropogenic activities on the climate, is a repetition, including in this room. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is clear that part of the climate change we see is a result of human activity. The changes happen faster and thus have greater and more dramatic consequences than what can be attributed to unilateral, natural fluctuations. Although there is still some disagreement between researchers about this, there is still reason to take the climate issue and the climate challenges seriously on the basis of a precautionary principle. I am still amazed that some doubters are waiting and watching. They assume a great responsibility. As a result, the government has presented its own climate communication and has endorsed key areas for it. The Kyoto Protocol has been ratified, with the commitments undertaken by Norway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A substantial part of the emission reduction measures shall be taken nationally alongside the use of the international mechanisms set out in the Protocol. For the Government and for the Christian People's Party, it is recognised that stronger lye must go beyond 2012. Luckily, this recognition is shared by a majority also in Stortinget. The loss of biodiversity is worrying. Globally, but also in Norway, a number of plants and animal species are lost each year. In a longer time perspective, this is serious. The balance of the ecosystem is under pressure and threatened by a development that is contrary to the objective of sustainable development. This is one of our greatest environmental policy challenges. The loss of species and species threatened by extinction has many and complex causes. For example, the wild axis: when it is threatened by acid rain and other pollutants, we have to react. It has therefore been necessary to press the debate on the Sellafield plant and in international cooperation on acid rain reduction. It's given results. Therefore, watercourse protection and salmon fjords are important elements of the action chain. We preserve salmon, while ensuring tomorrow's generations the opportunity for rich natural experiences. Once the existence of predators is under pressure, we must take some action to ensure their living conditions. It's hard, but it's necessary. The government has protected significant natural areas during the period. It has also been necessary to preserve biodiversity and future natural experiences. For all these policies, they are in conflict. The challenge has been, and will continue to be, to find sensible solutions at the intersection of protection and use, between sheep and wolf, in the relationship between oil and fish, between all-man's rights and fundamental rights. Important initiatives have been taken in all these areas by the Government during this four-year period. It is true that everyone would like to be better than anyone else in environmental policy. There is nothing wrong in itself, rather the opposite. It is an expression that we have a good starting point for discussing — and perhaps agreeing on — a future ambitious environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e344	I spoke to a fellow yesterday who said the following: I have grown up in a Christian home, and I have no problem with our Lord or His son. It's worse when you get the ground crew on the track. Then he aimed specifically at being honest. I actually have a question in relation to that. The Christian People's Party has now tried to give the impression that they will be very environmentally friendly in the election campaign that is coming, and says they are against gas power plants. However, the Sem Declaration covers four gas power plants in Norway. Does the representative Rahm also believe that it is a better environmental policy to accept that one exports gas to 250 gas power plants in Europe without setting clean-up requirements, thus developing jobs and environmental technologies – or having a lack of environmental technology – in Europe, than it would actually be to focus on developing it here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e351	The Sem declaration is fairly clear on the agreement concluded between the Left, Right and Christian People's Party. I think that in itself is a good deal of agreement, in relation to parties that initially have two different views. What has been the gain of the Christian People's Party – we can call it – in that process, has been that we have been able to make clear demands for what will become the future gas power plants in Norway, namely with CO2 management. The question that Rolf Terje Klungland is raising is a question that he will obviously have ample opportunity to raise again, perhaps for many rounds later, when he is going to sit down at the negotiating table with SV and create a government document. I think it will be more demanding for the Workers' Party than it has been for the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left to find their platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e361	I noticed that the representative in his speech said that the climate challenges are great. Of course, we agree on that. But I want to draw attention to the setting, page 29, where there's a comment where it says: ‘The Committee’s members from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that the overall objective must be to reduce emissions so as not to create dangerous climate change, and it requires priority countries both for technology development, resource efficiency and conversion to a green knowledge-based economy.’» So the Christian People's Party is not involved in this comment. Is it not a goal for the Christian People's Party not to have dangerous climate change? Have you given up that fight? I have also noticed that Bondevik has gone out and said that we must require further reductions after 2012. Now Norway is 11 pst. on its objectives. How can we demand from other countries that they reduce their emissions, when we ourselves are a climate hosting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e376	What kind of debate is this? What is the level of action you take by extracting two sentences from a setting? The answer to Leknes is quite simple. It is taken care of in our own comments, and it is taken care of in the government's policy. Why in the world do we have to be part of it? It's no worse than that. On the question of what will happen in the future, we need not disagree about the needs we have to increase our efforts in the future. It is not primarily a matter of making demands on other countries, it is a matter of making demands on ourselves. It is an expression of the Government's ambitious goal of contributing to the long-term reduction of climate emissions at home. I believe that both the SV, the Christian People's Party and the other government parties can easily agree on the need for this. All evidence points to the fact that the Kyoto Agreement is just a first important step in the right direction. It doesn't represent the solution. The solution is probably in a longer-term perspective, which requires reinforced instruments after 2012. It is the Christian People's Party and the Government very clearly in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e385	I demand answers as to whether the Christian People's Party believes it is more environmentally friendly to export gas equivalent to 250 gas plants to Europe instead of using it in Norway. Do they think it is more environmentally friendly to export the gas to Germany, then to Denmark and then to Sweden and build gas power plants there? And do they think it is more environmentally friendly to import 27 TWh coal and nuclear power, as they did in 2002 and 2003? In fact, I demand the respect of the representative that he answers the questions he gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e392	I thought that Rolf Terje Klungland over four years in the committee, where this has been a debate topic many times, had been answered just that question, and knew the answer. It clearly illustrates that our view of the Kyoto Protocol is obviously quite different. What Rolf Terje Klungland is signalling is that we're doing what we want here at home, and then we're going to deal with the international mechanisms contained in the protocol. Our starting point is that a significant part — perhaps the most important part — of the measures should be taken nationally. We believe that this is in line with the commitments we have under the Kyoto Protocol, that we are thus fulfilling our responsibilities in relation to it. That's the basic thing. Then, of course, the situation is that the starting point for Europe and Norway is very different, because we are a nation that has clean energy. You don't have it the same way in Europe. This means that in many ways our challenge is more demanding than what we find in other countries. And we're strengthening our problem if we're not willing to use instruments nationally rather than unilaterally bet on international mechanisms that can also be used as a supplement under the Kyoto agreement. That's essentially the right answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e408	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e411	This area of interest is large and versatile, and five minutes is not that much. But the big message we're dealing with today gives rise to some reflections now that it goes to the end of the four-year period. It has struck me that small conflicts can take focus away from the really big challenges of environmental policy. It is therefore positive that the message also mentions global challenges. I was so lucky to attend the UN Summit in Johannesburg in 2002, where agreement was reached on global targets for poverty reduction, water supply and sanitation. There is no doubt that the fight against poverty and major environmental challenges are closely linked. The evening post had on Monday this week an article entitled «Warnings from Climate Researchers», where global warming was a central theme. According to Director Prestrud of CICERO, increasing melting from Greenland is leading to increased water levels in the world oceans, and it needs to increase very little before most of the countries that Bangladesh is under water. The CO2 emissions have made a strong upward turn from 1950, and the Arctic does not have the role of the Earth's cooling off. It is the most serious thing in this. That is why, in my opinion, we do not escape the fact that climate policy is the most important topic. The message also indicates that this is an area where development has unfortunately been negative. Changing the climate will also change biodiversity. Once again, I want to remember the original definition of sustainable development. It implies taking into account both social, ecological and economic conditions. Therefore, the Centre Party welcomes the fact that the majority of the Committee will now focus on ‘more sustainable use’ of natural resources and wish to further develop combinations of protection and use. The Central Party notes that work on the establishment of a more knowledge-based management system has continued. The Species Database is established and will give priority to improving the overview of endangered and vulnerable species, the so-called Red Lists, and that is good. There is a lack of pace in removing the profit tax on claims. It has been said that the introduction of this protective tax was apparently unintentional, and then the error should be corrected now. That is also the opinion of the Committee in the configuration, which was issued last week. A rapid clearance is necessary to ensure that voluntary coniferous protection can be maintained constructively. In the case of conflicts, or rather the work to mitigate them, I also call for a follow-up from the Ministry of the Environment. The 2005 State Budget was addressed by a decision asking the Government to develop, in cooperation with the organisations in the primary industries, a strategy to reduce the level of conflict in the natural management. The decision is referenced in the Storing Message, so it is not forgotten. But as far as I know, the work has not been followed up. The centre party believes that work must now be started, so that the result can be presented to the Stortinget in connection with the State budget for the autumn. The so-called mountain text presented in the revised 2003 national budget is well received and the need for increased administrative effort in national parks is strongly called for. But here too, good wishes for more active use of protection areas must be followed up by both means and concrete measures. It's not enough to understand and have good intentions. The proposal of the centre party to introduce a temporary period of protection has not been met entirely with goodwill. It is therefore important that people take the time to listen to the arguments for the proposal. The background to the proposal was that we wanted an impact assessment of how protection had worked on people and businesses in affected areas. Our impression is that resources have increasingly been spent on protection, while work on management plans and increased value creation has been lagging behind. It can easily lead to frustrations and increased conflicts. Since I have stressed conflict mitigation in the post, I would also like to point out this time the need for a critical review of the definitions regarding so-called wild-field and non-interventional areas. The concepts are being tried to gain greater and greater weight from nature management and planning authorities, so we need to have a quality assurance. Most of us have probably been on both Galdhøggen and Glittertinn, and it's a little strange to think that these areas are not wild terrain at all. We're not earned with terms that obscure more than they describe. Finally, there has been a lot in and out of remarks in the debate, and then I have to hurry to say that there is a comment from SV and the Workers' Party that we could support with benefit. It focuses on the importance of environmental protection in municipalities and the importance of developing tools that integrate environmental protection into the usual planning processes. But it is assumed that this does not lead to more reporting from municipality to state, and that is a good point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e440	I now note that the Center Party is alone at the border post of the Swedish border to shoot wolves in Norway. It must be a little worrying for a party that has previously been positive for biological deficiency, to be that. I note positively that when it concerns the debate on the work programme in the Central Party in relation to the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, the Centre Party has, after that debate, approaching SV, and that is positive. But then there's this with a protective break, which the representative takes up. The centre party has been very green and offensive before, among others. in the case of the protection of watercourses. But there has recently been a change in the price of dimensions knelt up against this protective break. Can the representative say whether it is favourable for the Centre Party to be in such a position in relation to environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e447	It's quite right when the representative Langeland says we're positive about biodiversity. I'm not going to say, however, that I view the climate challenge as the greatest challenge in the world, for what has been said? Everything is related to everything. If the climate changes a lot, it will also go beyond biodiversity. Then it was the break. As I've said before, it's essential that people are able to bring the whole sentence with them. We're talking about a 'temporary break in protection' while the conditions for people and for the development of nutrition in this area are being evaluated. How has this affected people and businesses? We have examples of national parks that are 40 years old and have not yet received a management plan, so we believe that there is no consistency here. That's why we've been busy with a break. We're not against protection!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e454	The Centre Party and the Right do not always agree with environmental policy, but we have agreed on something. We have agreed that it is important to preserve ownership, and that it has been important to try to mitigate conflicts in terms of protection, and to try to move as far as possible to voluntary protection. I wonder if the representative of Enger feels comfortable in defending property rights in the new constellation with which she intends to work closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e461	I think it is very pleasant that Onarheim says that the Right will preserve private property rights, because I have actually been a little uncertain about it sometimes during this period. I also agree that the Centre Party and the Right are united in a number of matters. Among other things, I have to say that the case-presidency that Halleraker's representative had in terms of sheltered watercourses was very good. There it was cleaned up in many ambiguities that had somehow gone into place gradually, but it became very clear, among other things. in relation to the 100 metre belt. Onarheim asked if the Center Party was comfortable with any new constellation partners. When it comes to private ownership, I feel a little lonely no matter which side I stand on. My best example is the Santa Claus Act, where we got a majority of the government parties, SV and the Workers' Party, which were in favour of a rather heavy law compared to the landowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e471	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e474	Left-wing Government has presented an offensive and forward-looking communication on environmental protection policy and on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The message gives us a good picture of the situation and the challenges we face. The left is proud of the government's work in this area. The co-operation administration is leading a far better, more offensive and more forward-looking environmental policy than previous governments, and than other possible government constellations today. Cooperation governance builds its environmental policy on the objective of sustainable development. The Verkemodla will be set up in accordance with the good left-wing principle that impureurs will pay. This means that an economic and market-based instrument, such as mandatory agreements, transferable allowances, certificates and environmental taxes, is as close as possible. Environmental challenges are still formidable, with climate change and threats to the vital ecosystems. The Left and Government take these challenges seriously and will continue to have a modern, technology-optimistic and responsible environmental policy. The fight against impure gas power stations and oil drilling in Lofoten is the battle for an environmentally friendly and modern energy policy. The left will continue the big effort on public transport and environmentally friendly transport and replace 10 pst. of today's petrol and biofuel diesel for the next period. We will demand that all new gas power plants separate and remove CO2. Only oil and coal shall be substituted for the use of gas. We want to introduce a global CO2 tax on international air and boat transport, where revenue goes to the UN. The left will further distort the car charges from purchase to use, where it pays to buy energy-efficient cars. We want to halve the single entry fee on environmentally friendly cars at the same time. We want to reduce taxes on labour and increase taxes on environmental emissions – environmentally friendly behaviour should pay off, always and everywhere. We want taxes on unwanted substances like CO2 and environmental chemicals and fuel oil. More revenue from the country will be used to reduce taxes on labour input, so that working becomes more attractive. Green taxes and taxes will also stimulate research and development of environmental technologies. The left has been in front of the environment for more than 30 years, and we guarantee that we will continue to. The future is environmentally friendly and does not belong to a party that wants to build a nuclear gas power plant, kill the wolf population and build up the last watercourse. To the left, they dare to pay, as we do for everyone to choose solutions that cut and save the environment. Left will enable environmental labelling and active information for consumers. The choice takes them themselves: to live expensive and environmentally hostile or inexpensive and environmentally friendly. We want a modern environmental policy where Norway uses research, new technology and knowledge to make the environment cleaner. Norway can show the way to a future emission-free renewable society, with modern environmental technologies at all levels. Norway is an oil nation. We're going to be a big fan of fossil CO2. That's why we have a special responsibility. The left wants Norway to take that responsibility, and go lead to the development of new, clean energy solutions. Norway can show the way to a future emission-free and renewable society, with modern environmental technologies at all levels. It will provide many new jobs. A gas power plant provides 40 permanent jobs, while the production of the corresponding amount of bioenergy provides at least 1000 jobs. I'm recording that the red-green government option has signed up on some of the notes. The representative of Langeland boasted from this pulpit that he had brought the Labour Party on ten proposals. But look back at how environmental things have been treated in the Biggest of these parties, it blows a lot more than they like to give an impression of. Different views, e.g. the treatment of the watercourse protection plan of the three batches of the worker party-dominated option shows that they will have problems stacking on their legs a better and more environmentally friendly alternative than the cooperative management. On the contrary, a red-green government dominated by an environmentally hostile LO and the Labour Party will be a step backwards for environmental policy. The center party wants to take a break and break the wolf population we now have in the country. At the national meeting of these three parties, the environmental forces lost in the treatment of the various parties' programmes. These parties have very different views about the value of taking care of nature and the environment. This suggests that a working party-dominated red-green government will lead to a highly uncertain, unstable and less targeted environmental policy. The left of the government has delivered in the environmental field, among others. with a huge investment in watercourse protection, a huge investment in public transport and rail and much more in technology development and energy research. The left will still be the guarantor of a civil government that puts environmental and protection interests at the forefront. And of course, we support all comments and suggestions from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e512	It is interesting to note that the representative of the Left believes that the Workers' Party and the SV have had different positions in some settings that have dealt with environmental policy. What is interesting from an environmental point of view is that in most cases the Left has been with the Workers' Party, and we have been able to do something that was more environmentally friendly. But let me ask you a question that is important in the near future: it's going to be awarded exploration concessions for oil and gas operations. Among the nominated blocks are blocks that are very close to Lofoten and Røst. I think it would have been interesting to hear if the Left can now guarantee that there will not be any exploration concessions near Lofoten. Then I'll ask you another question. There appears to be consensus in the Committee that Norway is not today a priority country in the field of the environment. When I hear the post of the representative from the left, I'm a little in doubt: does she think Norway is a country of the past today, and can she tell me in what areas we are in then?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e524	When it comes to the first representative Sørensen asked for, it is a matter for consideration in the government. The left is strongly opposed to opening for search outside of Lofoten, and we will fight for that. So let's see if we're an environmental land. We're actually, but we can get a lot better. Actually, I think with the Left in government, we're going to make it. By being able to invest in renewable energy and environmental technologies – technologies that are future-optimistic and take care of them – I believe this is possible. We have a competence in Norway in our research environment, but one must be willing to use that competence. I believe that if you convert from green to red tax, and if you charge taxes, it will drive technology development and research. Then we'll be in front. Then we will be a real country of progress. But I'm very uncertain whether the Socialist Left Party will be able to get the Labour Party on it if they come to government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e533	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e536	The Coastal Party is pleased that the people of France and the Netherlands said no to the new EU Constitution. We are pleased that the United Kingdom now seems to reject the constitutional vote. In the Coastal Party, we consider that Norway and the Norwegian population are best served outside the EU, outside the Schengen cooperation and outside the EEA Agreement. This does not mean that we in the Coastal Party do not want to cooperate with the rest of Europe, because we do. It's always been like this, we've worked with Europe. But we cannot accept cooperation with such great commitments, where we leave much of the power in the country to a union that violates the Constitution. We celebrated yesterday that we went out of a union, and I think it's strange that it's going to be celebrated going into a new union. That's a weird way to celebrate. Nordmann is not interested in leaving the Norwegian autonomy and the Norwegian right of self-determination to a neoliberal and globalised economy, which is not responsible for the environment that we have. The experience of Germany, the Netherlands, France — yes, the whole EU — shows that ordinary people are being weakened by their social benefits. They become insecure in getting a living, and they fear that their own national Christian heritage will be put under a strong pressure from Muslim member countries. The last one is a fear we think is healthy. We in the Coast Party are proud of our Christian cultural heritage, and see no reason for us to import anything from Muslim culture. We train skilled researchers here in the country, but too many of them travel abroad to get a job. We have a lot of knowledgeable and creative people, but we're spending too little on the development of their projects. The worst thing is that we have given or sold our eternal fishing resources to a generation that becomes millionaires on a right that people in previous generations have been able to use to raise incomes and livelihoods for themselves and their coastal communities. We do, while we have so much money on the book that we have to invent questionable pension arguments to prevent attempts to modernise the country. It's really a unique situation. I want to point out another thing. People are concerned about predatory issues. Predators eat beneficial animals. People are afraid of predators. People are afraid of wolves, you and bears. We protect predators. We protect about reefs, eagles and gloats, and not forgetting otters. When I grew up, there was a lot of ere, honor, out on the islands. Now they're almost gone. Maybe most have been taken by eagles? The gilt, i.e. the emar, is endangered by extinction, and the sea, the small sea, has moved into the cities. It's almost not out on the islands anymore, because out there's the big mouse, and it eats the eggs. Yeah, it also eats the kids for the kittens, it eats the e-boys. Predators eat beneficial animals. That's actually why they're called predators. When farmers end milk production because predators eat the beneficial animals, many add sheep. But many farmers have to give up because they produce food for predators. It's so that wolves eat sheep, and farmers have to give up. I'm getting mad! I get angry when I experience farmers going bankrupt because the predators have been given exclusive rights to the area by an environmental bureaucracy that abuses the guidelines the Storting has put up. But it is clear that predator problems will be solved if you remove the farms in predatory areas. Then the problem is solved for the environmental bureaucrats, who make money to ignore the interests and fears of people living in the countryside and of ordinary people. Environmental authorities have gained far too much power over vulnerable rural communities in districts. This power they have managed in such a way that I believe the Storting must deprive them of that power. Environmental authorities must lose their right to veto, whether for the use of land or for the killing of predators. It's the only way we have to re-control the development of predators in the country. The Coastal Party will intensify the hunt for yerv in Nord-Trøndelag, Nordland and Finnmark. So far in the spring, there are 50 young people registered in the whole country, compared to 47 last year. Thus, the national stock target for youw of 42 annual young people, as decided one year ago by the Stortinget, is far too far passed. Jerven took 13,500 sheep last year. This year we fear that the loss may be much greater. We believe that the strong increase in the york stock requires immediate action, and demand that Norway obtain a flexible and unbureaucratic legislative and regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e562	The president is a little uncertain about whether the representative now made an article on the next case. These two issues are very close to each other, but the president expects the article to be meant for the state of the state of the state of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e565	Yes, it was. I'll come back to that in the next case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e570	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e573	As a rich country, Norway has a special responsibility to reduce global environmental pressures. We must respect nature's tolerances and base the precautionary principle on which there is a risk of serious environmental damage. We must let the author pay and not send the bill to neighbors, to the community or to future generations. These principles form the basis for the message we are discussing here today. I am pleased that the Storting has joined this principle and the main lines of the Government's environmental protection policy. The government has the ambition to pursue an offensive environmental protection policy to meet domestic challenges and to meet our international obligations. A defensive management of our own environmental resources is also a condition for Norway to be able to act with confidence on the international environmental policy scene. The message shows a good but not entirely satisfactory picture of the state of the environment in our country. We have achieved good results in the waste field, emissions of substances that deplete the ozone layer have been reduced, and we have subsequently been given control of acid rain problems. But we also have major challenges ahead of us. The loss of biodiversity, health and environmental chemicals and climate change must be seen as the main environmental challenges of our time. Developments here could affect both human health and life base, species survival and economic development in the long term. The government will intensify efforts to halt the loss of biological deficiency by 2010. This is part of the follow-up to the Johannesburg World Summit in 2002. Priority actions include: strengthening research, monitoring and surveillance, strengthening the management of protected areas and safeguarding of non-protected natural values. In order to ensure the integrity of the wild, a Norwegian species of responsibility, the Government is taking part in the creation of several national villas and two larger wild regions. As a contribution to preventing further loss of biological deficiency globally, the Government will consider how to reduce the use of tropical timber in Norway. Environmentally hazardous chemicals with unknown effects come into contact with most daily. The government is going in to sort out a ban on environmental contaminants in the consumer product. Such a ban will provide better control of the content of environmental pollutants in different products and thus an overview of the environmental and environmental exposure of humans. The Government will strengthen the means for Norway to comply with the NOx emission requirement of the Gothenburg Protocol by 2010. Then you have to release about 30 pst. in relation to the level in 2003. Norway has been at the forefront of developing mandatory international agreements in this field, and we also have a great interest in other countries complying with such agreements. Government will give priority to actions in the shipping and fishing industries to reduce NOx emissions. The national allowance system is central to the government’s policy of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Together with an agreement with the National Association of Process Industries, the quota system will reduce the emissions of this industry by 20 pst. in 2007 compared to 1990 levels. The government is committed to strengthening waste policy objectives and instruments. The target of 75 pst. the waste shall be recovered, increased to 80 pst. In addition, we propose a ban on landfilling waste that can be degraded from 2009. The government will ensure the natural and cultural environment associated with, among others. landscape, watercourses and coastal zone. Municipalities, county councils and county councillors are encouraged to conduct a rigorous practice in dealing with planks in the hundred-meter belt of the beach zone. I know that building in the beach zone occupies many, and the Government will place great emphasis on ensuring free access to the natural and outdoor areas here. When it comes to creating new areas of protection, I think it's going to be difficult to do better than this government. By the end of 2004, there were about 12 pst. of our land area protected. The most protected area in the high mountain is, and now it is time to expand the protection work to include more areas in the lowlands and marine areas. St.meld. No 21 provides an overall assessment of the state of the environment and environmental performance in Norway. In this message, the government has presented environmental policy challenges in several fields and has shown the way we will go to meet them. It is my hope that today's debate will strengthen the understanding of environmental policy and provide a good basis for further efforts to prevent environmental damage, solve environmental problems and protect environmental values.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e611	I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for the Environment on the reopening of exploration in the Barents Sea. For the northern part of the country, it is important to have petroleum in the future, which will lead to increased value creation and new jobs. I note that the Workers' Party has entered into an agreement with the Government that a management plan should be submitted in the northern regions, and we are pressing for the best possible solution. The government says it can't make it until spring 2006. The debate has talked about petroleum-free zones, petroleum-free areas, and we were quite surprised when the Minister for the Environment now went out using the words ‘environmental zone in the north’. I was just wondering what's in this. What does the Minister for the Environment put in these environmental zones that he is talking about? And why does he go out at this point, why doesn't he wait until the management plan comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e618	The management plan is a very important work. He gives a cure when it's about the business that's going on in the Barents Sea. We are very pleased that the work is now going so well, and we are working on it. That's why I wanted to record, among other things. what goes on in the environmental zone. Environmental zones may be demarcations, either in relation to petroleum, taken up here by the representative of Klungland – i.e. a petroleum-free zone – or there may be restrictions on shipping and fishing, if the enterprise is involved in damaging the environment. I would like it to be assessed in the management plan. That was why I went out and said that I wanted to assess it against the management plan, whether we should have an environmental zone, the size of any environmental zone. It must of course be included in the assessment that the Government will submit in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e625	When it comes to the creation of national parks and protection areas, I thought that this government has made an effort. But when it comes to other protection, the effort is not as good, for example. protection against forest – the protection of coastal forests, which I have been in for. We are far behind, for example. Sweden. I want the Minister for the Environment to point out the areas where Norway is a transitory country when it concerns the environment. From the Committee's side, the focus is on that particular issue - not least from the Government's side. Then, too, the bulk of the population, including the government party, says that there is a need for revitalisation and greater environmental ambitions. Can the Minister for the Environment point in a couple of areas there? Finally, the Minister for the Environment has the possibility to make Norway a transitional country if he demands the gas power plant at Kårstø. There I have seen that the Minister for the Environment has signaled something. Is it relevant for the Government to participate in a split layer to obtain CO2 management at Kårstø?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e637	Yes, fortunately, there are several areas where we can point out that Norway is a transitory country within the environment. We want to do it in more areas. When this message was presented, it was therefore very pleasant that the Swedish Union of Nature described it as exciting and exciting. It seemed to me that something corresponds to the presentation that SV gives today. I can cite an example, and that applies to waste policy. There's a measure of 75 pst, but we're increasing to 80 pst. – our policy is related to what we do when it relates to biological deficiency, where we say that we now want to limit the loss by 2010, and on the protection side, where we have now increased the area from below 7 pst. when this government took over, at 12.3 pst. Today, yes almost a double. It shows that in areas by region this government has achieved a better environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e644	On page 39, in the State of the Kingdom's Environmental State message, there is a subchapter entitled "The Level of Conflict in Natural Management". It says initially of a proposal adopted last year, which is as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop, in cooperation with the organisations in the primary industries, a strategy to reduce the level of conflict in the natural management.’ I've been asking myself a little questions about it, and I can't find out that there's so much work to do. It's very nice that there's the flag, it's clear in the message, but my question to the Council of State is, what has been done in cooperation with the primary industries in this area? And when will the Government present results of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e654	Ensuring a lower level of conflict in protective matters is an important goal of the Government. At the same time, I would also like to say that there is a natural conflict in protective matters. To avoid that altogether, I think this makes me too ambitious. We've got a lot of things to do. emphasised on local government, which now secures four areas. We see that local government attempts have worked well. It's e.g. two central party leaders, in Valle and in Dovre, who are central to this work, and we see that there is a work that has been successful so far. It is also important that we get better at care, that we ensure that the areas that are protected are preserved and developed further. It's very important that one not only feels that the state comes and protects, and that it's the last one that belongs to the state. That's what we're working on, with extra permissions for care.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e663	I would first like to say that when the government boasts that it protects and establishes national parks, it is a pleasure for the sitting government that it arrived just when the schedule was there, after the decisions made in the Stortinget more than ten years ago. The national parks now being established were adopted here in the house, on the proposal of then Environment Minister Thorbjørn Berntsen, more than ten years ago. But that's not why I asked for the floor. Raging the world's rainforest is one of the biggest environmental disasters the world is facing. The Minister for the Environment has repeatedly called for import bans, but now, cf. look-up in the evening post today, unfortunately, he only goes in to find out how to tighten up control, and he's hiding behind the WTO. Of course, for the Workers' Party, it is imperative that we comply with WTO legislation. But the question is, won't the only thing right now be to raise the matter and go in for it, in order to try whether we can implement an import ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e674	I would like to reiterate to the representative of Konglevoll that it was the Minister for the Environment, Børge Brende, who was speeding up the protection work. Without his efforts, we had not seen the good measurements that we see today, with almost a doubling of the protective area. When it comes to the issue of rainforests, which I am also very busy with, I announced yesterday that we would now like to have a legal arrangement that assesses prohibition – bans on imports, but also a prohibition that does not apply to resilient angles. It is difficult to see what is illegal at best, and what is legally highest. So we're going to grab hold of this. We consider a ban line, but we also want to assess other measures, there may be documentation requirements, so that we can ensure a decline in the sale of rainforest timber. That's the most important thing. But we must also stick to the WTO. I do not want to lead a policy that does not lead to a real change, so I have focused on that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e685	I note that the Council of State says that Norway is an environmental policy priority country, but there is some confusion about what it involves. Being a leading country means going ahead of other countries and providing measures and new instruments in environmental policy followed by other countries. A definition of environmental policy countries is not to have set any more ambitious targets than the former government of Stoltenberg did. I would like to repeat the question from Hallgeir H. Langeland: In what areas does the Minister for the Environment perceive Norway as an environmental policy country today, which is taking action by other countries? It can't be on biodiversity; there we go after others. At least it cannot be on the climate issue. There we were a leading country 20 years ago, but we are not today – we are among the most difficult to meet the obligations of the climate protocol. At least it can't be in the waste area; there we look at other countries for good solutions that we run and implement. And we were a leading country on chemicals, but we're not now. In what areas does the Council of State see us as a country of priority today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e700	It may be difficult for SV to see the good results we have achieved in the environmental field, that we have managed to achieve such a strong increase in protection, that we have achieved a historic commitment to new, renewable energy sources, that we now come up with measures to halt the loss of biological deficiency by 2010, and that we are now doing well to come up with a plan to meet our NOx obligations, where we actually have 80 pst. as a target for waste. We have – and here I am in my reply – an area where we have shown that we are an environmental policy country of progress. Not all areas are affected. That is why we are presenting a big message that is described by the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature as both exciting and exciting. One area where I think is a transit country is for mercury. When we were at a meeting in Nairobi, we were promoting resolutions to improve the international handling of mercury. Unfortunately, we were unable to get the EU with us. But we're going to lead in many areas. I want to go to even more areas than what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e716	We are dealing with many important issues today. This is the most important one. Without creating sustainable development into the future, the historical judgment will be harsh. The fight against war and hunger, the distribution of resources, climate change and access to land and water are the most important challenges we face internationally. We solve them with other countries, or we don't solve them at all. We can do a lot of nationally too. When we say that Norway has been an environmental driver for many years, it is a truth without reservation. The last hundred years, which is a microscopic part of our era, in the Western world, we have had a formidable growth in our consumption. It cannot continue. I will nevertheless distance myself from those who claim that this is due to unilateral economic growth. It doesn't. I remember that forced renovation was introduced in my municipality. People used to throw the trash in the creek or burn it. Today we hardly see trash in nature. There was strong opposition to the introduction of forced renovation, but it created economic growth. The same applies to many cleaning requirements imposed on holdings. It turns out that when the requirements are set, a person usually comes up with systems to live with, yes, often schemes that lead to new economic growth. Politicians therefore have an important role to play in driving social development. Therefore, this message is important. Here we are alerting what we will be doing in environmental policy into the future. In this context, it is very important for us to relate to the reality we are in. The challenge is to get a future society that is renewable. That this leads to economic growth must be very fine. In a capitalist society, we believe in the Workers' Party that it is a reality we must relate to. At the same time, politicians are set to steer developments where we want to. In the Workers' Party, we distance ourselves from the attitude of the Advance Party that it is just moving forward. If they had run, I don't think we would have had to renovate today. The attitude of the Progress Party in climate policy is serious and, in our opinion, reactionary. It doesn't belong to reality. Norway is an energy nation. We have many years ahead of us with the use and value creation of non-renewable resources. We need to make the most of this in a sustainable way. Today, we are sending gas equivalent energy to over 250 gas plants out of the country – without requirements for the cleaning of climate emissions. It is actually good for the environment, because it replaces alternative energy that is more polluting. But we have an obligation in Norway to develop a sustainable energy industry. Especially Norway, which has been guided by non-renewable resources, has a responsibility to address climate challenges. That is why the National Assembly of the Workers Party decided that we should sit in the driver’s seat to develop CO2 management of the gas power stations that will be guaranteed to come. Future gas power plants will be CO2 management power plants. At the same time, we need to be in reality and prevent situations in which industry and private power customers go doll because the electricity bills become too high, as we saw in 2002–2003. Gas power stations in Norway must have the same framework conditions as their competitors. It implies that the Workers' Party will not require CO2 cleaning for gas power plant concessions. We believe that a CO2 chain where the technology is developed, the CO2 is captured, transported back to the oil reservoirs and reinjected will be profitable for oil companies when we get our future policy and it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e750	The Committee points out that outdoor life is a source of quality of life, well-being, better public health and increased environmental awareness. 2005 has been designated as the Year of Outdoor Life and it is important that this area receives the attention it deserves. It is particularly important that outdoor life is organised for children and young people. In today’s society, this group has some sedentary activities, and the development of good low-threshold services, often close to where people live, is important in motivating both children and their parents to a more active outdoor life. A fundamental element in the exercise of open-air life is the right of all persons. All-human rights are fundamental to ensuring people's access to natural areas of recreation and outdoor life. Right will preserve the universal right to free movement in the outland and ensure access to the natural areas. In order to expand the open air areas, we believe that the State must purchase properties and allocate suitable state-owned areas for outdoor purposes. Most recently in the revised national budget, an increase of 24.4 million has been proposed. kr for the purchase of properties that are out of use but should remain in the possession of the State for the purpose of facilitating outdoor life. At the same time, I would like to highlight the importance of private ownership for the conservation and maintenance of natural areas. Property rights provide a personal interest in managing property in a long-term perspective. It is important to preserve private property and privacy while ensuring access to natural areas. The right is engaged in maintaining this balance sheet. That's why we want to avoid intrusion into private property for the longest time. Where public intervention by safeguard decisions is required, landowners must be fully compensated for reduced value for use. I believe that property owners who feel properly treated, will also be more positively prepared to facilitate outdoors and all-people's rights. In the case of coastal zone policy, it is necessary to point out that there are major geographical differences in Norway, and there is a great difference between a derogation in the already densely populated Oslofjord area and in the South, where it is important to continue to ensure the population access to the coastal zone, and in the West, in Trøndelag or in North Norway, where most of the most areas are eco-friendly in the coastal zone and the access of the population to the coastal zone can hardly be said to be threatened. These different conditions in the different parts of the country are important. Because of local differences, local self-government is important. As part of the focus on new renewable energy, the Government has a target of 3 TWh wind power by 2010. Norway has natural prerequisites for becoming a significant producer of wind power. This applies to several areas of the country, and not least to what I myself represent, namely Rogaland. In my home country there are a number of projects for treatment, some more controversial than others. Wind power generation is very land-intensive and may conflict with other land and social interests. Usually, conflicts concern travel life, cultural memories and the cultural environment, landscape impact, reduction of uninterventional natural areas and biodiversity, reindeer and defence relations. Wind power projects are basically positive both because we need to strengthen the energy balance, because production is independent of rainfall — and there is an advantage in a country that has such a one-sided power generation — that production is new, renewable and last but not least provides income opportunities for landowners in District Norway. Nevertheless, it is positive that the Government announces that a thematic conflict assessment will be carried out on notified and granted wind power plants and national guidelines for the planning and location of wind power plants. The aim of these guidelines will be to stimulate municipalities and counties to assess suitable areas for wind energy purposes in overall spatial plans. However, the decision taken by local and regional authorities in this type of case must be given decisive importance in concession awards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e776	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e779	Environment and sustainable development have been beacons for the Bondevik government. Never has a government led such an active environmental policy. Repair, control and maintenance are important for the protection of our surroundings. But the visionary and generational estimates of our environmental policies are found in the planning phase. Land use is an example of this. On my local scene in Oslo, the Right has done a pioneering work. Our credo has been concentrated urban development. Housing, work, recreation and cultural activities in physical neighbourhoods to each other require less infrastructure and less transport. It means better resource use and saved energy, and our footprint is getting smaller and smaller. Nowhere in Oslo is it far to the nearest forest trail. In various political constellations, the Right has the power to preserve the virginity of the mark. The natural pearl has given us the sense of freedom, natural experience and health. The protection of Oslomarka represents the intangible highlight of urban development in Norway and the defeat of concrete socialism. Oslo and a dozen surrounding municipalities have put their loving arm around the forests – without state aid. Continuously, the debate on the mark is rolling. We can stand it, and on a few exceptions, we'll probably live with it. The debate also helps to remind us of a human value portfolio released from CO2, NOx, krone and ear. The big cities do not power the environment, not children's growing conditions, and not transport without efficient public transport. More than anyone else in the past, this government has invested in public transport. Quantitatively, €9.4 billion is invested in public transport – €1.7 billion higher than in the last year of labor party government. But it's on the new work of the qualitative government. The reward scheme for higher collective shareholdings is one element. There is a broad focus on quality reform of the administration. Administrative bodies such as the NSB, the Avinor and the Post are set free as ASs. It gives better use of resources. Coastal, road and on-road production departments are put out of competition because competition is the best quality control on which to provide good services to users. Companies that are best at human treatment, best at financial management, best at energy management and most desirable at resource use should do the job. It provides a governance dynamic for the benefit of the environment and the skills of users with better public transport and more infrastructure for the same resource use. Public resource use is an important part of administrative responsibility. It is a pity that the socialists are more concerned with public ownership than they are with effective quality control and more public transport for money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e811	Let me commend the Government for including in the communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state that has not been mentioned in the debate and which is not affected in the Committee's vote. The Minister for the Environment has decided to set up a procurement panel to address the need to make national procurement more environmentally friendly. So the state buys goods and services for NOK 240 billion a year. There is a significant purchasing power inherent in this. I have a question for the Council of State in this regard, because the administrative responsibility for the purchases lies in the Ministry of Modernisation. My fear is that this will be done in the Ministry of the Environment without having the Ministry of Modernisation involved in the concrete work on a procurement panel. I am pleased that we are able to stand with the Workers' Party to protect Oslomarka. I am probably not able to reach the rhetorical highlights of the representative Kjästad here in our tribute to Oslomarka. But this is a fantastic area, like 90 pst. the population of the city spends at least once a month on recreation, and that it requires protection for the future, one must be a Right-wing person in order to be able to argue against it. So to another point that has not been included by the Ministry of the Environment in the State of the State of the State of the Environment. These include many of the good measures in the Waste Reduction Committee, among others. what has been in the drawer of the Ministry of the Environment, and which I believe the Minister for the Environment has at some point assessed, namely to get a state-owned enterprise – in line with Enova for new, renewable energy sources – that can participate in and promote waste prevention and recovery measures. Now we've been better at recycling in the last ten years than we were before, but we have a big problem, and that's that the amount of waste is growing and growing. In fact, it is growing more than the growth of gross domestic product. Getting a body that can be targeted towards it is of the utmost importance. Then we have made a proposal to take care of the rainforest, to ban imports of tropical wood in Norway. We also supported that proposal three years ago. When we repeat it now and are disappointed by what the Minister for the Environment can say today about new investigations, it is because it is urgent. It's so urgent. In ten years there may be no more forest left on Borneo. We know that the time perspective we have is that we don't have time for new rounds of investigations. The report on the state of the rainforest, for which the Rainforest Fund has just presented, would be sufficient evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e824	When I now ask for the word to make a three-minute post, it is to raise a matter that I have become aware of after the committee has concluded its examination of St. report. No 21st Last@item: It's about leachate from old landfill. Chapter 8.3.4 of the message mentions the new, more stringent requirements introduced into landfills. For landfills existing before the regulation was introduced in 2002, transitional arrangements have been granted until 16 July 2009. After that time, all landfills shall either comply with the requirements of the regulation or be wound up. That's how far it's good. But the last few days have, among other things, NRK Finnmark put the search light on that only in North Norway is almost 300 old landfills that lack security and surveillance. Many of these landfills are from time to time before we got a proper treatment of e.g. hazardous waste in old refrigerators. The County of Finnmark calls for caution and says that we now need to get a comprehensive overview and address the most serious cases, especially where there is a risk of the release of dangerous chemicals into drinking water. The Finnish State also points out that there may be large amounts of money here to ensure some landfills, too much money for small municipalities with today's economy to handle them. I hope that the Minister for the Environment will be able to comment on the information that has emerged and on the strong concern of the County of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e838	The problems of man-made climate change are our main environmental policy challenge in the years to come. This means that CO2 emissions need to be reduced, both nationally and globally. If not, we're going to experience more extreme weather, more races and more that have to escape from the great consequences that this can entail. We can even in the longer term experience that the Gulf Stream is spinning, or that it ceases to have the same intensity as today. It'll probably be a little bit further in time. A new ice age is probably not what we in Norway do most. The Kyoto agreement was a great first step on the road in terms of reducing emissions. The Kyoto Agreement is valid for the period 2008-2012, and Norway is one of three countries that have been given the opportunity to increase their greenhouse gas emissions instead of reducing them. The Kyoto agreement is not enough. We need to have new negotiations for a new period after 2012. Then we have to demand more. We cannot be satisfied that Norway will continue to increase its emissions. Norway has to reduce its emissions. We must also demand emissions to sink globally. So it is that Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol says that the use of Kyoto mechanisms, like this. the share of the allowances shall be a complement to the domestic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. I believe that it is natural to understand the word ‘addition’ as if at least half is not a supplement. That is why we really need to reduce our emissions if we are to comply with the Kyoto Protocol, and if we are to be able to demand that other countries reduce their emissions. In the climate debate, I don't miss a little short-sightedness to the Progress Party, because Carl I. Hagen was running with Norwegian climate policy from Torrevieja in Spain this winter. Firstly, there was tremendous uncertainty that man-made climate change actually occurred. The response of the Progress Party to this in the State budgets is that we should do less research, because there is one party that is in a special position in relation to cutting climate research, and that is the Progress Party. They've cut $70 million. kr in Norwegian climate research in the last years. This cannot, however, help to reduce the uncertainty about the causes of the changes. SV is in favour of an environmental reform. We have approx. 40 proposals that go in that direction, and I note that the Minister for the Environment has been able to mention only one place where Norway is an environmental policy priority country today. SV wants Norway to be an environmental policy priority country in many more areas than that, and we have many constructive proposals to make it happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e854	Two questions now at the end of the debate, since the Council of State will have the floor. One goes on the question that I asked about Kårstø and the highly impure gas power plant to be built there, where he has been out with sensors to link up with any fissure layer, so that one can get CO2 handling at Kårstø plant if an investment decision is taken this summer. The question from SV is: Has the government done or will it do anything about this? For SV, if they want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at Kårstø, they would like to contribute to a multiple of these issues for the Government. The second question was what I had in mind in my article. It was against what even Konglevoll was about recently, that is, the deponia that now has a toxic run-off, which is of a significant size, and which is not being done because the municipalities don't have the money to clean up this. Then it's important to remind the assembly that having a purer production and turning evidence is an important principle, because it costs to pollute, and if we're going to clean it up, it's going to be a few billion. My question is: has the Council of State thought as SV, that here the state must somehow contribute and contribute to spice layers, so that in municipalities and in other owners of these deponia who have toxic run-offs, it can be cleaned up in an environmentally friendly and proper way?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e864	I want to start with the representative Leknes addresses the climate problems. There is no doubt that this is the biggest environmental challenge we are facing today. Therefore, the Kyoto Protocol is only a first step on the road. I'm glad that we've got a climate quota law, that we've got an agreement with the process industry, that we've got a landfill ban that helps reduce methane emissions, and will do that, that we've got a low-emission selection in place, and that we have a target of 25 pst. on oil firing during the period 2008-2012. We have introduced new measures all the way, but despite this, there will still be a need for new measures. Therefore, it is also important for the Government to work for a more ambitious agreement internationally, after 2012, and there I can promise Norway to go ahead. It is also a pleasure to register it as supported as, among other things. The EU has responded. Then to the representative Sørensen, who takes up what goes on the purchase panel. There is no doubt about the feedback given on it, and that it is important, precisely with regard to the state that has such a large purchase, and that can thus contribute to the development of technology, be involved as a major market player and influence in an environmentally friendly direction. The Ministry of Modernisation will not take part in that panel, but it is clear that input from that panel will be important for both the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Modernisation. It is the Ministry of Modernisation that is responsible for it. When it comes to waste prevention, it is true that the selection has been delivered. I consider some of the actions in the selection. We have not provided it in the message, but there is something we consider, because waste prevention is a priority measure. Among other things, the figure showed that each household in Norway throws 275 kg of food waste every year. This shows that we have a potential to extract from here. So when it comes to the rainforest, I'm going to put forward a draft consultation that's already taking up a ban. I would also like to consider different measures, but there is a draft consultation. I want to have a dialogue with the Rain Forest Fund and I have had a constructive meeting with them already and I'm taking that up. So to what gets picked up by more here, and that goes on with the unclean reason. It is contained in the message on page 79. I suggest that we have already surveyed 100 sites that have basic impure sediments, and we know that the need for action here is much greater, up to 500. So that's what's done in the message, and we'll follow up on it, of course. Then to Kårstø. There I want a dialogue with the force of nature, and I want to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e880	I was given a visit from SV, and it could be very much interesting to discuss with SV regarding environmental policy. If one is going to be a little general, it's going to apply, among other things. the willingness to extract both gas and oil from the North Sea and their undivided willingness to spend money, to use the same money, once you have a need to finance. Now I'm not going to provoke SV. I'm just going to meet the one point that Heidi Sørensen made for me, and it's about Marka. For us in Oslo Right, Marka is one of our most beloved heirlooms. Already at the end of the 1800s our political ancestors saw that around the city there was a potential for natural experience, for recreation, for health, for exercise, and they got to those degrees right. They're lucky, those who have such visionary abilities that they're able to see our ally in terms of intangible values. That's why we think it's a value in itself to remind ourselves in Oslo of these intangible values, that we're constantly taking that debate, and we've done it without the help of the state. Why should the state come and regulate something that we in Oslo have done perfectly? Probably the same thing for the urban areas in the other cities. But this is our inheritance, we don't want the state there. Then I'm just going to extend a hand to the representative Sørensen, saying that if it turns out that it is necessary for the 20 Marka municipalities to provide this inheritance, I'm willing to assess it once more, but so far we've done well, and so we don't need the state to override local authorities in an area where we're proud of what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e889	Of course, the representative Jørund Leknes made me take the floor. I can recommend Jørund Leknes to read our comments – if he can rub CO2 fog out of his eyes. Maybe it's not just our comments he should read. If he also manages to follow in the international debate, he will find that there are different views about what affects the climate. Of course, I could also recommend him to attend the joint seminar that SV and the Progress Party had here in the house. There, too, it was found to be different. One of the reasons why we in the Progress Party are skeptical about the UN Climate Panel's fight against man-made CO2 is simply that there is great uncertainty, and – not least – it costs a lot. ==References== 150 billion dollars cost this experiment you don't know the result of at all. And just to compare: it costs $75 billion to ensure enough clean drinking water, sanitation and basic health care and education for all people around the world. But CO2 is obviously the most important thing for SV and part of the other batches, and then you want to prioritize it. I also notice that, within the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, there is now a great deal of uncertainty about the results to be achieved. But I notice that SV's environmental policy will ensure that Norwegian industry flags far out. Hydro is one example: they pack up, go to Qatar, fire gas power stations and other energy sources completely unclaimed. It is therefore SV's policy in a nutshell: Get rid of Norwegian jobs, it benefits the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e909	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2724]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e925	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e934	I have the wish that this will not be a long debate. We had the predatory debate a year ago, and it's just to note that the political groupings haven't changed much. I think it was a good suggestion inger S. Enger and Ola D. Glötvold came along, because what was the result of the predatory settlement between the government parties and the Workers' Party and SV, was that this with border groups is an open question, and I think that the then Environment Minister Børge Brende actually said it quite well that a «border group is of course a border group. So it is a family group that has its territory both in Swedish and in Norwegian." In other words, they had not thought about that issue, and those who make up the majority in the predatory settlement will not do so. What's going to be interesting in the future is to see the central party's position in the new red-green socialist government, if there are any. It's really the mouse that's going to be allowed to roar to the wolf flock, because the Center Party has a completely different policy than both the SV and the Workers' Party in this case. So what this is going to look like in the future, it's going to be pretty interesting to follow, and I'm afraid that the Center Party will probably have to swallow both wolves and camels and a little more to get through its policy. No one has any particular belief that they can. But at least it is gratifying to record that there are different opinions in the Workers' Party, too, based on what is in the setting and in the notes by Grethe G. Fossum. Finally, I would just like to mention the Advance Party and the proposal of the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e945	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposals he made well for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e948	It was with wonder I registered that there was a Document No. 8 proposals that are thematically in line with what the Storting treats about a year ago, and that we do not have the will to see the sequences yet. During Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2003-2004 and Innst. S. No 174 for 2003-2004 on Norwegian wild game, the majority in Stortinget decided that there may be three annual young wolves in Norway. I know it was necessary to stress that after the decision in Stortinget, the game management had a decentralised structure. Money has been transferred to managing regions. for distribution to municipalities which have large barge loads. I am sure that the municipalities themselves will be free to choose which predatory game-related measures they want to spend the money for, and will also give feedback to the Ministry on the practice and follow-up of the predatory game policy adopted in spring 2004. Where border groups of wolves are concerned, they shall be managed in cooperation with Sweden and shall not be included in the Norwegian wolf targets. On that basis, it could be natural to reject the proposal. When the multiple still goes in to add Document No. 8:36 by the Protocol, it is because the Ministry is required to follow the decision of the Stortinget on a rolling basis. In addition to the fact that the message on the wild game was attached to the protocol, the Storting extended its decision in six Roman decisions. To underline what the Storting etc. adopted, I will quote from the V of the Decision, where, among others. name: ‘The government is asking for a return to change and extension of the Government’s proposed scheme, which takes into account the continued need for discretionary compensation payments, based on the fact that many losses are difficult to document despite the implementation of prevention measures.The government is asking the Government to return to the Storting on its own initiative, at the latest in the context of the 2006 government budget. Until new arrangements are implemented, the current arrangements shall be continued.» I also have to include a little bit from the VI decision. It's called: ‘With regard to the distribution of predators within the regions, it is assumed that the Government will have to take into account that the overall pressure on predators will not increase in the regions from which it is a great deal, rather the number of animals should decrease.’ So these are the leaders that were created before and that the government is going to follow up. With reference to Stortinget's previous decision, Document No. 8:36 unnecessary. When the Christian People's Party goes in to attach the document to the protocol, it is absolutely certain that the ministry naturally follows up and implements its previous decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e973	One should perhaps be careful with yelling the wolf so late in the evening; there may be trouble with it. But anyway, I feel the need to say a little bit in this context. The centre batch will have a tiller management that does not prevent the active use of the field. The use of pasture for grazing is an environmentally friendly form of food production that is also important for maintaining biodiversity. The Stortinget set a Norwegian stock target for three annual juveniles for the treatment of the wild game notification in May 2004. In the message, however, there was a lack of clarification on the border crews of wolves, except that they were to be managed together with Sweden. This unexplained situation has contributed to the fact that today we have about as many wolves as live in Sweden and live in Norway, as there are heroic wolves. This means that we have a very unclear stock target for wolves in Norway. We could have a lot more wolves than the stock target, and so that size has added up. It is seaworthy because the matter has been raised again now. The relationship with border teams will create major administrative difficulties and could have dramatic consequences for people living and feeding in these areas. During the major debate on 13 May 2004, the Minister for the Environment, Mr Børge Brende, said that a ‘border group is of course a border group. It is therefore a family group that has its territory in both Swedish and Norwegian." Based on this interpretation, therefore, a family group that has 1 pst. by its territory in Sweden, had to be defined as a border group. As the proposal for a new regulation on the management of wild game appears, such groups of wolves will not be managed by the Norwegian authorities. This also applies outside the wolf zone. I believe it would be more functional to define a border crew as Norwegian when it has more than 50 pst. of its territory on the Norwegian side, and that one then falls within the Norwegian stock target and Norwegian legislation. It is also worth pointing out that no other wild animal species is defined as Norwegian or Swedish in border areas according to their geographical location. An unexplained relationship with border flocks is particularly worrying in view of the strong growth of the wolf population in Scandinavia. In the winter of 2002–03, 84 to 100 wolves were held in Scandinavia, while in the winter of 2003–04 the total population increased to 101 to 120 wolves. Based on average, this gave a 20 pst stock growth. between the two winter trains. The corresponding figures for stationary wolves in flocks and pairs were 66-74 in winter 2002-2003 and 86-91 in winter 2003-2004. This shows for stationary wolves of these categories an average population growth of 26 pst. during the same one-year period. The number of family groups in Scandinavia also increased between these two winters, from eight to eleven. For the Central Party, it is important that we have a government that ensures that we have control of how much wolf we have in Norway, so that those who live in the administrative regions are freed from the burden of more and more wolves in their neighbourhood. It's a shame that there won't be a majority to clean up the administration of the border groups here today. I see that the Progress Party and the Central Party are in a minority with their proposal, but it is gratifying that the Labour Party representative from Hedmark supports with his own comment. You might have to wear your shoe to know where it's pressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e994	I thank the Presidency for making me aware that SV actually has a proposal. So I take up the SV's suggestion that this populist case should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e999	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, has drawn up what he proposed. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1004	Robbery and predatory debate are taking place in different ways. Those who are affected have their opinion, and those who are not affected may have a somewhat more positive attitude on this issue. Because there is no doubt that those who live off and try to feed themselves, among other things. buffing, is very skeptical of a large number of wolves and where it is to be in proportion to their diet. For many, this is about being or not being. As I see it, there is good district policy with no or very few wolves. In addition to the consideration of the industry, this is also a matter of quality of life. For the vast majority of those living in an area of predators, these animals do not want. It's safe for itself and its own. You just get scared that something can happen. You don't dare use nature the way you want, with the possibilities this would otherwise be given in the form of recreation etc. In a survey carried out in May 2000 in the wolf area of Årjäng-Eda, bordering on Norway, 71 pst responded. that they did not accept wolves in their vicinity. Only 28 pst. replied yes. On questions about the setting of the wolf had changed so that one had become more negative with the wolf in the area, answered a whole 64 pst. that they had become even more negative. This tells us that you have to listen to those who are affected and regulate the number of predators in relation to what the people want. This has been done by the Progress Party by saying in its programme that management is to take place locally, that the core areas of predatory game are to be decommissioned, that good compensation is to be given and not least to facilitate the granting of breeding permits. Another important theme is the number of predators in relation to other game. It goes without saying that a large number of wolves have to have more food, and there is a difference in how much, among other things. moose and deer that the wolf must have in order to survive. So there's going to be an imbalance in nature. Why do I mention all of this? Well, it's about how much wolf we're going to have, and about which ones are going to be counted. Norway has a long border with Sweden, which has a slightly more liberal attitude towards predators, and has relatively many more than us. Some of these are along the border, and when you know that a wolf with no major problems can walk up to 200 km in a day, it goes without saying that one day these so-called border flocks or individual animals can be in Norway and the next in Sweden. Therefore, these should be taken into account when they have at least half their territory in Norway. This should be a matter of course, but unfortunately it looks like it's just the Progress Party and the Center Party who sees and supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1017	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1033	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1042	The fact that the parties at Stortinget have different views on land management and watercourses is well known from previous issues and debates in Stortinget, but so many representatives are behind a proposal to deal with a matter where the basis for the treatment is the evaluation of a pilot project which ended on 30 April this year may be surprising. The majority at least show concern for the work done by the eight municipalities, and will wait until the evaluation is completed before we can decide on the facts. The letter from the Ministry of the Environment dated 6 May of this year includes: to the extent that the objectives of the pilot project have been to test whether the purpose of the motor vehicle rolling stock can be better achieved by connecting to the design and building laws. The municipalities of Kautokeino, Fauske, Hattfjelldal, Røros, Stor-Elvdal, Lom, Vinje and Sirdal have been able to establish their own rules, among others. to allow recreation with snowmobiles in fixed loops. As a leak in the evaluation, the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research should be responsible for a number of interviews with municipalities to obtain knowledge of the design process and of the objectives of the experiment. The pilot project was named after the end of April 30th of this year. The evaluation shall now be carried out, and this evaluation shall determine whether the applicable laws and regulations are operating in the manner prescribed by the legislators or whether there is a need to amend the snowmobile driving legislation. In addition, the Ministry will collect relevant information from other foreign municipalities if necessary to obtain a holistic picture of the situation. The test municipalities are allowed to use the legislation from the test scheme for running snowmobiles until the evaluation is completed and any modification process has been completed. The size of the case is referred to as the reality of the case at a later stage, and the majority therefore argue that the proposal should be annexed to the minutes. I would like to thank you for your cooperation in this matter within the Committee and would like to recommend that this Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1061	The representative of Liones was surprised at the proposal. He should not be, but I am not so surprised that he says so, because we have promoted this proposal earlier, and each time it has been voted down – unfortunately. The reason why we do this is simply because we notice a pressure from communities around Norway, which would have liked this to happen. The government and government parties don't get this, I think it's a little unfortunate. I must be allowed to refer to the newspaper Nordlys 20 April, where a study has been carried out among the country's rapporteurs. 329 of the country's rapporteurs answered, and a whole of 82.1 pst. felt that municipalities should be given the opportunity to facilitate the situation, including among the rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party and the SV. And that's exactly what separates the parties in this case. We trust local democracy. We trust the rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party in this matter. Then it is a sin that the Christian People’s Party itself does not have the same confidence in its own. We also trust that the SV rapporteurs will be able to take the choices that will benefit the population of the local community. And if they then make any choices that the local population does not agree with, you have an opportunity to get rid of them at the next municipal elections. I think the starting point should be to listen a little bit to local democracy in this case, too, so that conditions are put in place to have a motorised outdoor life in some parts of Norway. And I just want to clarify -- because it's often used to get messed up in the debate -- that we don't want it to be free driving. We want to set things straight so that you can make a run. I am also aware of the need to evaluate this scheme. However, we are quite uncertain when this comes back to Stortinget in some form, simply because we do not believe that the will for the Stortinget to be allowed to deal with this matter is present. At least then it is interesting to note the answer that came from the Council of State to a question from the Committee, where it emerges that he believes that it is necessary to tighten up motorcycling policy. This is the opinion of the Council of State before the evaluation has been carried out. In other words, the Council of State has concluded long before the evaluation of the process has begun, and I think that is an unfortunate way to do it. I think the Council of State should have been completely open and collected information, and then drew a conclusion and presented it to the Storting during this year. But unfortunately, the government has already concluded. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1072	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1075	It is no wonder that proposals are coming up, and that other parties then respond and take up their principal views. That's what the Center Party has done in this case. The centre party wants local maritime governance and municipalities to have access to many areas – including snowmobile driving. Nevertheless, we have always thought that we sometimes have to invest in intermunicipal cooperation, because the municipalities are very different in terms of area and population. Therefore, in the comments we refer to the fact that it can often be a good idea to make use of it. However, it is important to bring this down to a local level, because there is a local mark that traffic is becoming embarrassing for other types of interests, whether there is too much noise, whether outdoors, tourism or local services are becoming harmful, and whether it goes beyond natural values. But as I said, sometimes intermunicipal cooperation will be a good solution. This is the principal. The centre party is also very concerned that we have to wait for the trial project where the eight municipalities are to be evaluated. As far as I know, the evaluation will come in the course of the year, and it will be interesting to see how it falls out. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1084	The representative, Inger S. Enger, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1102	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1111	Let me thank you for your cooperation with the Committee. We didn't cooperate that much, but I was the case spokesman! I want to refer to the plural's comments in the matter. In addition, I would like to comment on the SV's proposal. It's less than six years since I was the case spokesman for the construction of Upper Otta. Then two government parties and SV, and the Center Party, I believe, said no to all expansion. The right-wing representatives Jan Tore Sanner and the current Minister for Industry Børge Brende did the same. It was six years ago. After a hard fight, the stockpiling decided to build up a half-way. SV went against. A large multiple said a clear no to that natural invasion and the deponia with a rock mass that one now adds. The procedure was too big, said the majority six years ago. That's a little bit of a view we're witnessing today. And what will the consequences be? What's going to be the next fight? Is it the Sauda watercourse to have full expansion, as individual batches wish? What will be the next watercourse of the bulk of the population, and the government adds up to the challenge, when one of the Upper Otta-saka actually sees that it is possible to win against the natural and environmental movement? So what we see is a lot of winged parties that are now joining the club that left was already in. Now most of the other parties are in the club, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is in constant contact with a large number of nature interventions. It's very regrettable, the signal that the multiple now sends out, because the environmental movement and SV had accepted the loss it was going for halved expansion. So the builders didn't. They did not comply with the daring and unambiguous decisions of the Storting. Now I see that the old-timer in Skåk is present, and for him this must be a big day, after having managed to turn the big crowd after only six years. There must also be a great day for the Advance Party and the conservationists of that party, when one is now able to get the Left and Christian People's Party into this natural intervention. There's a nature attack in the Jotunheim area, in the new national park state, so it doesn't give more than 0.1 pst. of the total electricity consumption in Norway. According to e.g. construction industry and Enova are savings potential only in the building mass more than 10 pst. of electricity consumption, and in industry it is possible to save approx. 5 pst. Then one goes to this decision to build out force corresponding to 0.1 pst. It's a little bit of a priority for the majority of the population today, where one of them makes for a lot of rematches. The expansion results in reduced water flow at Pollfoss. The stone tips will destroy your natural experiences. The tourist industry is 20 pst. of the employment of Uppland. The tourism industry, which was listening, said that the development could have a ‘significant negative impact on the experience of tourists’. The wings and inconsistency of the majority will weaken the natural experiences of the region. SV will no longer age with the possibilities of unique natural experiences in the area. When the majority know that there will be a reduction in water flow and large stone tips, we can only say that they know what they are doing to supply the Norwegian electricity consumption of 0.1 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1134	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, has drawn up the proposal he has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1137	A few weeks ago, the Stortinget dealt with a major and important issue for watercourse protection in Norway. In that case there were several watercourses at the top of the Ottawa valley that were protected. The extension decision of Upper Otta, which the Stortinget dealt with six years ago, also provided a gentle extension, but nevertheless provided a significant power grant. Today we are dealing with one thing in the same area, and here the Government shows flexibility by recommending the use of old installations, combined with modern tunnel technology. This is fully in line with a policy of upgrading and modernising existing power plants. The project provides 125 GWh, which is an important power contribution, and this is achieved even if it is in a sensitive natural area. There may not be much force in the overall context, but by meeting several of these types of improvements and small expansions with minimal nature interventions, this government has built up natural hydropower in the order of 2 100 GWh over the four years – otherwise far more than the Workers' Party has been able to throughout the 1990s. And if the red-green government mates get a majority for the harvest, it's probably the end of it, at least if we're going to judge by how inconsistuous they are in this case. When you look at SV's position and comments on this matter, it's just to state once again that the socialist parties have no common points in energy policy at all. I'm afraid it won't be great for the little Center Party to jump from knee to knee with its red, larger comrades, with varying support – a little spooky to say. But SV is worth a study. A few days ago, we dealt with the matter of industrial power contracts, and SV smelled government maggot. Here one managed to lure the Progress Party into a populist majority that logically cracks in all directions. But the SV didn't get any worse from the new collaboration. The main role of the State, regulators, theoretical manipulation of market mechanisms became too tempting. What makes the link to this case interesting is that at one of the points in that decision SV agreed to vote for measures that would give more hydropower to the power supply in this country. This would include, inter alia: by converting existing one-year magazines into multi-yearly magazines. The logic behind it was syllables. But anyway, SV voted to raise the magazine height of existing water storage plants. My question to SV is therefore: Why in the world is SV and the case-rapporteur Langeland going against something they fought so brutally for last week? I had expected the opposite, when SV soon got the chance. In this matter, the Government and the majority are in favour of more force. SV goes against. The rapporteur, Mr Langeland, should support this – and further suggested that the dam Raudalsmagasinet be raised. Although a multi-year magazine would not give so much more force in total here either, it would have been completely in line with the decision SV went into that matter. No, we'll probably never see such an initiative from SV. So this is probably going to be an output that's going to end up on populism's scrap pile. And here I think there are small possibilities for recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1154	When the Stortinget dealt with the development of Upper Otta in 1999, this was one of the examples that the majority of the Stortinge set aside the need for new power and largely gave symbolic environmental considerations to the assessments. Since that time, we have had more examples. I mention the Salt Mountain/Black Mountain extension, which was stopped in its entirety, and the Sauda expansion, which, like the expansion of Upper Otta, was halved. This multi-year action slum was further stimulated by former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s New Year speech, which is the direct reason why power has become scarce both for industry and for general supply in Norway. We saw the result of this three years ago, when two dry harvest months led to the electricity price going completely off the shaft, and there was a great danger of disconnection and rationalization. Despite this, which should perhaps be learned, the situation is actually even worse today, and the distance between supply and demand in the power market is increasing for each year because the majority of this room intervenes on the supply side of the market and actively prevents new and necessary power generation. Now we see that lack of power also drives prices upwards in a long-term perspective and endangers both value creation and thousands of jobs in power-generating industries. I think it's amazing that in the energy storm Norway we've managed to take care of ourselves so that we're no longer self-sufficient in power. I'm referring to last year we had a net import of force of more than 11 TWh. When the Stortinget dealt with Upper Otta expansion, the Progress Party was all alone to support a full expansion. The adjustment, or the transfer that we're making today, will result in a net increase in production of about 125 GWh. I am very pleased that today a large majority in the Grand Duchy supports this sensible project, which also has strong local support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1163	This watercourse, which includes the Breidal Waters and the Raudal Waters, has been regulated since the 1940s, and the two power stations mentioned together with the transmissions requested will lead to better use of existing hydropower structures. Exploiting water resources better in the developed watercourses is a proper environmental and energy policy. This principle has been widely endorsed, including: in connection with St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004, on security of supply for electricity etc. The majority of the Committee points out that a transfer of water from the Breidal magazine to the Rautals magazine via a tunnel will also make it possible to use the Breidal magazine in Prominent Power Plants. The project will give about 125 GWh new power per year. years. In addition to better use of the water resource, the transfer will contribute to improved flooding in the Ottawa Valley. The requested project does not require changes to existing regulatory concessions for Breidalsvatnet and Raudalsvatnet. It is important to stress that water collection between the Breidal and Raudalen magazines is a significantly smaller intervention, with a different technical solution than the 1999 tunnel option. In fact, it is clear that the benefits and benefits of this expansion are greater than the damage and disadvantages to the general and private interests. The best possible ecological and landscape architectural results shall be taken into account through the development process and permanent operation. In addition, the municipality shall have the opportunity to comment on the plans for civil engineering roads, mass take-offs and the location of excess masses, and the concessionaire shall have the obligation to maintain a defensive clean-up in the construction areas. On a local and regional level, the connection to the transfer is mutually agreed. For the region, this is an important project that provides new jobs and increases the income of the municipality in terms of, among other things. non-profit institutions serving households and concession fees. Issues have been raised as to whether the expansion may lead to visible changes in the upper and lower water levels and/or changes in the water flow. In relation to these questions, it is important to demonstrate to the regulation of movement, which makes it clear that the optimisation must not lead to a greater reduction in the water supply or raising of the warehouse than the regulation of movement. There are disadvantages with all the expansions, but in this respect the precursors are considerably larger, and in this respect it is right to consent to the transfer of water through the construction of a tunnel between the Breidal Water and the Raudal Water.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1182	Upper Otta is a well-known term in many circuits. There have been power expansion in the area on several occasions. The first one was in the 1940s. The most mentioned – and disputed – was adopted in 1999 in the Stortinget. It was a so-called half expansion in relation to the wish of those who were going to expand. The center party was at that time towards expansion. Today, on the other hand, we are joining the majority, to the joy of some power users and of my Skåk friends in the gallery. From the protective circuits, it's said that this is a complete revolution. I don't mean it. The background is, of course, that when it was expanded, it is necessary to get the most out of the same development. This is good use of resources. In fact, it also prevents floods. The County Committee of Oppland consists of members from all parties except the Left. The committee has unanimously recommended the extension. So here, the parties, from the Progress Party to the SV, have ended up doing this. They are quite clear in their conclusions. I allow myself to quote a little from the main part of the decision: ‘1. The County Committee recommends that the plans of the Glommens and Laagen Brukseier Association on the ‘Breidal Transfer’ be implemented.2. The County Committee considers that the development has little negative consequences compared to the utility, which includes both an increase in power generation and a positive ring-effect on regional business. Furthermore, it is positive that the potential associated with existing power plants is used rather than to implement expansions in entirely new areas.3. The County Committee considers the obligation of investigation to be fulfilled by the existing plans and the remedial measures proposed are deemed appropriate.» I can also mention that the Municipality of Skåk and the Regional Council of the North Gudbrandsdalen are in agreement to recommend the planned tunnel transfer between Breidalsvatnet and Raudalsvatnet. And then it's also claimed that this tunnel extension that this is added up to is a bit for bit-enhancement. The centre lot cannot understand that there is a basis for such claims in this context. As late as in the spring was the supplementation of the Verne Plan for Watercourses up in Stortinget. Several of the rivers in the area are protected before previous decisions. This spring we also received Torah, Glitra, Måråi and Åfotgrovi. They all belong to the Upper Otta Watercourse. At the hearing, the National Association of Travelers was concerned about the development of power. I think a lot of what they said there was on a general basis. But it's true that the flow of water in the river past Pollfoss is being reduced, and that this will be a pity for the tourists. Water flow decreases in periods. But it's in the winter. Then the eleven decks are of ice, and there's usually a good deal of snow in the area. However, there is one concern about this, and it is the rock masses – that is, the excess mass from the tunnel. It might be bad to have them lying down, sailing if it's just temporary. Now, fortunately, there are good plans for how to use the rock masses. Some of the gravel is intended to be used for a parking space at a nearby cabin. A giraffe shall be completed to a handicap phyte in the area. It is a few kilometres long and has to be adapted to wheelchair users. That part is included in the agreement with the builders. In addition, there are negotiations with the Road Administration on the use of gravel for Rv. 15 and for racial protection in the Grass Valley. As far as I know, the negotiations are not yet over – it is to wish that it will be successful. Finally, I would like to say as the County Committee in Uppland: the development has had little negative consequences compared to the benefits. That's pretty good enough to go in for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1217	The majority shall today consent to a concession to transfer water between Breidalsvatnet and Raudalsvatnet in the municipality of Skåk in Uppland. The consensus implies an optimisation in an area of power development that has been characterised by two regulation magazines dating back to the 1940s. In this way, we will receive a subsidy of clean and renewable hydropower by making even better use of existing hydropower structures through very moderate interventions. The project also provides a much more efficient and environmentally friendly resource use than if we were to implement similar size development in untouched areas. This transfer project to the Glommens and Laagen Südgeier Association differs both technically and interactively from the Upper Otta project that Stortinget dealt with in 1999. Most of the banks of the project were then protected in connection with the supplementation of the Verne Plan for Watercourses adopted by the Stortinget in February. The project to be taken into consideration by the Stortinge today does not take in a single side river, but is limited to the draining of water through a tunnel between two or 60-year-old warehouses. We therefore have no rematch today in relation to the case Stortinget dealt with in 1999, as SV's representatives suggest in the committee position. The government here follows up previous leaders from Stortinget as, among other things. has been demonstrated in the treatment of the hydro-power notification and the security of supply notification. The government's proposal involves the development of new capacity of approx. 125 GWh per years. This corresponds to the annual consumption of over 6000 households. The government has stressed the strong desire of the community and region to expand the area. For a small outlying municipality, this project will mean much economic through concession fees and concession power and through income from natural resource taxes and not least property taxes. In addition, the project will provide good jobs to people in the valley during the construction period. I have also noticed the positive attitude of the project that both the county and the county council have made known. There has been a rare diet with such a consensus about a power development project in recent years as what we are witnessing here. I note with great satisfaction that it is now up to the Government's proposal to have a solid majority in the Stortinget this evening. I am very concerned that we are putting in place measures to balance supply and demand in the power market. We had a fresh debate on that last week. We do this by focusing on the consumption side through the work that, among other things. is done by Enova, but we also have to focus on building up new capacity. Hydropower will continue to be our main environmentally friendly energy source for many years to come. Hydropower from small power plants will provide a significant contribution to new power. Furthermore, it is still possible to get a good deal more power out of our existing hydropower plants by means of upgrades and extensions. This government has made it possible for us to exploit this potential in the coming years. In the Sem Declaration, government parties are involved in order to make better use of existing hydropower structures. The project we're dealing with here tonight is the best example in that way. During the period of operation of the Cooperative Government, hydropower projects with a production capacity of about 2,1 TWh have been authorised. This corresponds to the volume for which authorisations were granted throughout the period 1991 to October 2001. This clearly shows that the hydropower epoch is not over, but we have seen a twist from large new projects to the type of projects I have just described. In any case, we will have to weigh the environmental costs of each project against the benefits, and this must be done independently of the size of the project. It will be assessed through the concession system whether the environmental impact is acceptable to the benefit. I am very pleased with the support that a solid majority in this Chamber is now giving to this project that lies here. It will help to strengthen the balance, and it is a shining example of the kind of projects that we want more from reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1249	The Labour Party considers that the clean transfer of water between these two warehouses, which has been regulated since 1942, without the consumption of side rivers, does not conflict with the treatment of the Upper Otta in the Stortinget in 1999. The lateral rivers that were then discussed were now protected by the treatment of supplementation of the protection plan. So it's not about regulating new rivers. There is also no mention of new dams or regulation regimes. Can the Council confirm that this is not the beginning of a bit for bit-extension of Upper Otta, or a rematch in relation to the compromise that was then reached in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1256	Yes, I can confirm that this is not a rematch with the project that was adopted in 1999. And so, as the representative himself stressed, there were completely different assumptions on which the discussion of that decision was based. The transfer that has been promoted is limited, as I also underlined in my post, to the bottling of water between the warehouses in the Breidalen and Raudalen, without the intake of other rivers. We know that in 1999 there were several major rivers between the two warehouses, as well as a connection with a tunnel that drained several rivers on the north side of the Ottawa River. The Ministry’s assessment is that the transfer tunnel is within the framework of development options such as: is located in Total Plan Category I at the roll-out which was carried out in St.meld. No 60 for 1991-1992.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1263	The case we are dealing with today is a very good example of an adjustment or extension that will give significant amounts of power without interference of importance, which the Council of State had in mind. We in the Progress Party have called for the upgrading and expansion of existing works on several occasions, and have also proposed incentives to trigger such power potentials. I would therefore like to ask whether the Government will now look at other, similar expansion projects and facilitate extensions where this does not lead to serious natural interference, and propose incentives that may advance the realisation of upgrading or extension of existing works.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1270	As I also said in my post, I think this is a very good project. This is a good example of an upgrade and expansion project. As I also said, this government in its government base, the Sem Declaration, has underlined that we actually want some of these projects. So in that respect, I can reassure the representative, Mr Vaksdal. This is an example of follow-up for other builders who consider whether this could be the way to go. We want to focus more on the expansion and upgrading of existing projects. It can also provide more environmentally friendly profiles – it can actually be less natural interference and finer location in the environment – so I think this is the way to go. It's not an insignificant project. It'll give 125 GWh, which represents power to 6,000 households.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1275	The councils were a little hurt and dismayed when the big crowd ordered her to move on with an industrial power regime. She wasn't interested in it today, but she was a big representative, Sergeant Halleraker had the same problem with me talking about 0.1 pst. of Norwegian industrial consumption. Governments were partly concerned, but not much. I want to ask you, what is the government going to do in relation to the savings potential of 5 pst? As the bulk of the population told her to do something about – the potential for saving in the industry, where we really talk about dimensions? To indent 0.1 pst. the industrial power regime cannot be called anything but absurd. Then I wonder: in the hall, the councils have support. But what about environmental movement, what about the concerns of the tourism industry about this nature intervention? Can the government say anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1282	At least I am sure of one thing: what does not help us to be able to give enough strength to the industry in the future is that we continue on the path that the representative Hallgeir Langeland has chosen to take, because it does not help to get more TWhs, and that is what we need. We need to produce new power. It is the only safe thing to do in order to be able to give industry enough power and cheap power in the future. I hear from the tone that here you're going to minimize by saying that this is kind of just 0.1 pst. But it's actually 125 GWh, so it represents the power of 6,000 households. It's also the case that many cymbals make a big deal. We've learned that in school. It has become popularly renamed to: Many streams of small ones are helping to get more TWh. I actually think that we need a lot of such projects in the future. We need that and other types of projects that contribute to re-invigorating us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1289	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1294	Exploiting the power potential of existing and adopted power deployments must be a good force and environmental policy. It would also be a belief that SV was written in. But instead, they're going against the exploitation of an almost 60-year-old magazine that can give 125 GWh with very small environmental consequences, and then they're going to make a statement both in the evening post and in gd: the Gudbrandsdøl Den Dagningen, where they label us as cowardly politicians. In that case, such a claim frames SV's own party traps in Uppland County, which have also supported the proposed extension. But maybe the SVs in Oppland know a little more about what they're talking about than the representatives of Langeland. A break-up in this expansion must rather call political wisdom. Because the ingenious thing about this project is that with a tunnel now, we're going to take advantage of the built-in Breidals magazine without new power plants, without new aggregates, and without new wiring, but the number of hours spent will increase. So we're going to get 125 new GWhs with little environmental impact. If it were windmills, small power plants or other, it wouldn't be able to produce that much power in such an environmentally friendly way. A number is made of the fact that this is a rematch to the 1999 decision. Firstly, both the NVE and the Ministry state that this expansion is within the framework of the 1999 decision. It also confirmed the government of a previous post this evening. This is a completely different project. At that time it was about a tunnel that was going to go down into Glitra power station, and bring some side rivers. Sliding power plants were never built. So that's a completely different solution. Secondly, in many ways there has to be an uninteresting discussion about whether this is a rematch or a rematch. Because if the Storting thinks that this expansion is reasonable, when a deviation of the force gain from the natural intervention, yes, it must be what is decisive. It is the right and duty of the sitting magnification to evaluate the project accordingly. And I'm very clear that the natural action here is so small that the project is right. The change in the watercourse is the largest of several hundred metres from the Breidal Waters and downwards, but the minimum waterflow requirement ensures the water level in the spheres here. In the concession terms, it is open to threshold construction requirements, which will also secure the water level, and downwards, the side river comes and reduces water reduction relatively. The other changes to the water level in the Breidal magazine will also be marginal. Massedeponia is the good solution. Provoked power plants will be completed in December. This extension does not affect the installations here, and as I said, there are only several hours of running, so a claim that this is a bit bit for bit-by-bit expansion is not at all a valid basis for doing so. Here we are facing an expansion that aims at optimising existing regulations through power plants that are under construction, and I think that is right after the textbook.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1311	What the Storting will adopt tonight, to grant concession to transfer more water from the Breidal magazine to the Rautal magazine, I think is a victory for the environment. It's a good thing to get more clean renewable energy online, and it's a very good thing for the community of Skåk and Uppland. The representative Langeland claimed that bringing more water from one magazine to another would weaken the natural experiences in the area. As I see it, it doesn't. I think it depends on the eyes that see, and what one wants to see. Any development, whether it is road development or hydropower development or other infrastructure, has a price. This case has a very small price. I am confident that the Directorate of Nature Management would have gone into a hard way to oppose this project if it had had the environmental consequences claimed by the representative of Langeland. I have never concealed that I mean hydropower expansion and even better use of the hydropower we already have is a good environmental policy as well as anything else. It's just going to be 0.1 pst. new power, says Langeland, a little bit reprehensible. Yes, it is clear that gas power plants provide much more, but getting 125 GWh on the network is not to be missed. So, as the Council of State recently said, it gives power to over 6,000 households. Everything that can be improved for the force balance is good. And with pure renewable energy, it's even better, and it also has effects on price and less pressure on the construction of other alternative forms of energy. So I think this is a good project. And then you could call it a last stone in the construction of Upper Otta. I'm not that busy. The project is on its own. But it actually delights a lot more than SV thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1320	I do not intend to contribute to the extension of the debate. I just want to take the word very briefly to the vote on this matter tonight. I would like to refer to the comments and proposals of the Workers' Party last time the Stortinget dealt with the expansion of Upper Otta, where we, among others, discussed. stated that with the compromise then adopted, the flow of water throughout the main watercourse would be unaffected. And with that I warn you that I will vote against the vote of the majority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1327	Synnøve Konglevoll then explained his vote later this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1331	Some central politicians from the last time Upper Otta was treated have been our fronts and criticised SV for calling this a rematch, so that we refer to the environmental movement and the travel industry and say that this is a rematch and a bit of bit-tactics, and that this is something that concerns the environmental movement and the travel industry. We all think that Rudihagen and the others lost in their own party last – they wanted to build up small and large in the whole of the Ottawa Valley. There shouldn't be a class again, if it was up to them. That they're for this, I don't think I'm weird at all. But trying to argue that it's not a natural intervention, that it doesn't matter, is strange. It is clear that if you put some heavy stone tips there, it could happen that Rudihagen and Brørby thought it was nice to look at it – I don't know. However, the tourism industry, while listening, said that they were concerned about a ‘significantly negative impact on the experience of tourists’. This is not something I have found. So it's the travel industry that has 20 pst. of the employment in Uppland County, which has said this. One might say it doesn't matter, but then one doesn't belong to what other than SV says. Because there's no doubt that there'll also be a reduction in water flow. But perhaps Rudihagen and Brørby thought it was nice that there were small streams of water in formerly large streams? Maybe they think it's nice that it's a tourist product, a magnet for travel life? They're allowed to see it. But travel activities mean something else, and it's the vision of environmental movements and travel activities that SV once again represents – against the force socialists in the Workers' Party, in the Left, in the Christian People's Party, in the Right and in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1340	If the representative of Langeland believes that ‘power-socialist’ is a shell word, there are not so many who bite at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1343	No, I didn't necessarily mean that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1348	I'm not going to finish this debate, but it's a little bit about how serious the discussion is, when the representative Langeland owes us to want to build up debris and bits of river in the North Valley. Then one really doesn't know what the previous case, from 1999, was about. First of all, we had the Collect Plan, where most of the page habits were protected. Originally, the developer requested something equivalent to 1,200 GWh. So the sideel was taken out of the NVE, and when the matter came to Stortinget, it was about 1000 GWh. There were also other options that we pointed to, such as taking out the Tora and Føysa and reducing some of the other expansional possibilities, just assuming that there were very good reasons to keep these sideways outside. One also refers to travel life. Those who live in the Otta Valley, in Skåk, have, for the first time, lived their entire lives with nature. They know they're dependent on nature. Not least, the tourism industry is also very aware of that. I would like to quote from a letter dated 12 May 1999, which we received from Skåk Travel Life Team last time. They write the following: ‘Our biggest problem in the travel life of Skåk today is the fear propaganda of the Naturschutzförbundet and Vern Obere Otta on dry rivers and ruined nature.’ All parties – not least travel life in this region – may be inclined to stick to the reality of what this project is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1362	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1378	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1387	The proposal deals with a modified plan for the development and operation of the Statfjord field, the so-called Statfjord late-stage project, as well as plans for the installation and operation of the Tampen Link gas transport system. It is a unanimous committee that supports the vote on approving both projects, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter. The project is fully in line with cross-political wishes here at Stortinget to have a longer life span and a higher utilisation rate in fields on the base. It is therefore gratifying that Statfjord late-stage is now being realized. The lifetime of the project is extended to approx. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: nine years beyond what was originally planned and provides an expected extraction rate of 68 pst. for oil and 74 pst. for gas. This extraction rate is high, both in Norwegian and international contexts. I want to take the opportunity to commend Statoil as the operator of the field and the rest of the companies in the license because they have worked towards this solution of the project. This has been a demanding process, in terms of both profitability and technological solutions. I would also like to commend the licence for finding good environmental solutions, such as: reduces both NOx and CO2 emissions. A prerequisite for Statfjord's late phase is that the project is profitable. The profitability of Statfjord late phase is closely related to the transport solution chosen, namely Tampen Link, where the gas is to be passed through the FLAGS pipeline on the British continental shelf to St. Fergus in the United Kingdom. This solution will also help to increase the flexibility of the Norwegian gas transport system. The operator has assessed different options, including landing to Kårstø in Rogaland. This option would provide additional costs of at least DKK 1.2 billion, and the late-stage project itself would not have been implemented with such a solution – simply because the project is not profitable. The fact that gas is going from the Statfjord field to the United Kingdom has caused reactions and concerns that we in Norway are not going to be able to take out the value creation potential that the gas represents industrially. Me and the Right understand this concern, and we are very concerned that a maximum amount of value creation is going to happen here in the country. Therefore, the preliminary signals to lead gas from, for example, Skarv to Kårstø are good news. Why can't the Right and Government parties help support a proposal for a separate key message on the gas transport systems and a socio-economic focus on the choice of solutions? Well, because we first of all fully recognise that it is the economic considerations of the companies that must be at the bottom of their decisions on the transport and sale of gas. Each company itself is responsible for the disposal of its share of the gas. The size cannot in any way oblige companies to make unprofitable investments. On the one hand, this would be in stark contrast to our desire for Norwegian cap to be attractive to investment and competitive in relation to other countries' territories. On the other hand, this type of imposition would be directly contrary to the EEA Agreement. The petroleum industry needs long-term and predictability. It is therefore unfortunate that both the Labour Party and the Progress Party in this matter contribute to creating uncertainty as to what is to be the policy in force in this area. Operators on the base must market their gas on a market-based basis based on commercial negotiations. Since the Gas Negotiating Committee was closed in 2001, due to the EEA Agreement, while the Workers' Party's Olav Aksselsen was Minister for Oil and Energy, each company itself has been responsible for the provision of its own gas. In a press release from the then State Council Akssenssen on 29 May 2001, it is said, among other things: the following: ‘Increased maturity of Norwegian sockets, opening up of gas markets in Europe and changes in company structures along the value chain for gas means that producer companies on Norwegian continental shelf should be given greater commercial freedom of action.’ We are actively working to use more gas domestically. Through the treatment of two gas messages during this period, the Storting has just debated these issues and strategies and measures to achieve our objectives of enhanced value creation. It is important to have this focus, but it is nevertheless wrong to choose the angles of incidence which both weaken our competitiveness on the base and which are also contrary to the international rules of the game Norway has committed itself to follow. This creates an uncertainty that no one has earned, even though I see the need for some parties to appear more concerned than others with employment and value creation. Finally, for the sake of order, I would like to remind these parties that the companies are required to consider different alternatives to transport solutions. The authorities have the possibility to ensure good resource management through PUD and PAD approvals. Furthermore, I assume that the companies see their social responsibility, and I trust that their social responsibility also applies to the alternatives they are applying for, and are involved in the overall considerations that take place on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1426	What we are adopting today is a new policy to send rich gas out of Norway. The Labour Party has been and will be a political driver in terms of putting gas into use in Norway. Norway has used several hundred billion dollars of pipes to export the gas to the continent, and this has been right to sell gas. But now we have to have greater ambitions than just selling gas. We have all the assumptions to get more values out of the gas than just selling it. The Labour Party believes that public, primarily through the work of the Government and the Storting, must have a responsibility in relation to the development of a modern and forward-looking industry. The Workers' Party has considered that the public must have a responsibility to advance the infrastructure construction of gas. That is why it was a central point for us earlier this year to have a majority in order for a state company to be given this responsibility. Now the work is in progress. At the same time, we are deciding today to send out the gas, which is a crucial input for the development of the gas industry, out of the country. First of all, the government must take responsibility for that. We don't like it. The gas debate in Norway has for too long focused on issues rather than on opportunities. The working party takes a very serious view of the situation in Norway with regard to industrial employment. A policy of decline in industrial employment leads us to become more dependent on being a creamer instead of being an entrepreneur. In that case, our descendants will have to pay the bill. It is not a sustainable development of the welfare nation of Norway and can in the long term lead to dramatic cuts in the well-being of this country. It is therefore important to pursue an active industrial policy that ensures growth and not planned degradation. In those places in Norway where we have managed to use the gas, this has happened because we have had an active industrial policy and political will and courage, which has led to the realization of the opportunities that we have. The political simplest would probably have been to just sell the gas out of the country. We believe that this is actually a socio-economic poor policy. I am pleased that the majority today obliges the Government to ensure a social analysis of the future development projects. Only in this way will we focus on the possibilities Norway actually has, both at oil companies and at authorities, and the choices here will be simpler and clearer. In the Workers' Party we are concerned with results. We are dedicated to building industry and creating values to distribute. Of course, we have to deal with international agreements. However, in the Labour Party, we believe that one should do what is possible under the agreements that exist to ensure the supply of wet gas to the industry in Norway. That is why, in today's comments, we are critical of the work carried out by the Government in this matter. We assume that the gas deal that was concluded earlier this year will start a new era for the Norwegian gas industry and the petrochemical industry. During the discussion in Stortinget, I said on behalf of the Workers' Party that if, contrary to assumption, the Government did not follow up, we would of course continue to be watchful. I promise we'll be. The current Labour Party policy is to develop new, forward-looking industries. We need political will to do that. In this context, I would like to point out that, not long ago, an agreement was reached between the then Minister of Energy Einar Steensnæs and the British Minister of Energy, where they wrote that infrastructure would be used where it was most profitable. We know, ladies and gentlemen, where that infrastructure goes. We know that Norway will be in reverse if we do nothing to secure the gas for further development in Norway. We see that this matter is one step towards what we warned against when this agreement was signed. We did not get a hearing from the Government when we warned against the agreement, so now they follow the principle that we should not be founders. Finally, I will address the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting together with the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1449	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1452	Statfjord rightholders now need to extend the extractive permit beyond 2009 as a result of plans to extend the field operation. This late phase project will at least extend the production time of the field until 2018 and will also contribute to a significant increase in the extraction rate in the field of both oil and gas. I had the pleasure of being with and building up the first platform at Statfjord in the winter of 1977, and I think it is a pleasure that we can now get even more out of this very important field. In the case we are dealing with today, there is also a proposal for a planned pipeline between the Statfjord field and the FLAGS pipeline on the British continental shelf that will allow the transport of NIG gas to St. Fergus in the United Kingdom. This project contributes to the economic feasibility of the late phase of Statfjord, while helping to increase the flexibility of the gas transport system. It is important that we facilitate the increased use of gas in Norway, including as raw material in industrial activities, which the representative of Klungland also pointed out. When we discussed the gas communication earlier in the spring session as well as a Document No. Eight proposals on this from the Workers' Party, we felt that the Workers' Party was hoping for its own proposal and did not support the recordings that came from LO and NOPEF. The Progress Party was then all alone about both comments and proposals that followed this up in practical policy, and we felt that the Workers' Party was actively voting against what they said they were actually in favour of. This was supposed to be due to a so-called gas settlement with the government parties, without a single penny for the distribution of gas. It now appears that the Workers' Party has realised that this gas settlement was, however, free of content and, in reality, nothing but a new postponement, because we now suddenly feel that the party is concerned about the raw material situation of the Norwegian petrochemical industry and the Norwegian gas industry – despite the fact that the party's distance from comments on this matter was a short time ago, that the party actually voted against the proposal of the Advance Party to secure raw material access. This goes into the sequence of the Wing of the Workers' Party on these important questions, which we have seen in the last few examples. The party's representatives change positions, not just from day to day, but from hour to hour. But it's approaching elections, and the party has now obviously taken the goal of agreeing with absolutely everyone, no matter what the point of view. We see from this that the party votes alternately for and against, in the next round to sell both positions to the press and where it always fits. The critical comments of the working party on this matter are also not followed up by action. Despite criticism of the gas transport solution, it seems that the party will nevertheless vote in favour of this solution today. So once again, they're both for and against the same thing. However, I am pleased that it seems that a majority today still support the Progress Party alone in this respect, namely to review the gas management and infrastructure, and to look at the various transport solutions and their social impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1469	In this case, SV has some suggestions that we have developed. One is trying to secure the Norwegian shipbuilding industry several assignments from Norway through different measures. The Labour Party and the Centre have joined, but the proposal does not have a number, unless the Progress Party finds out that it would be appropriate to support such a proposal. That proposal has us because we've seen a bad tendency to what Statoil wants, is what the government wants. Then one can fool at why it is like that, and have good ideas about both it and one thing and the other, but that's what's the reality. That's when Statoil was privatized. Then there was the rental in Statoil and the board and some central people who helped to privatize the company. The reason was that it was going to secure the head office in Norway, and then it was supposed to ensure that several assignments went to the Norwegian shipyard industry. It should therefore secure Norwegian jobs. But it didn't happen like that -- on the contrary. It became more financial. One became more busy serving shareholders than serving most people. Then it turned out that one of them got the cheapest contract, that one of them went with his assignment. There is something of the intention of SV's proposal, which now has red-green connections, simply to see if one can take some action so that we can secure the Norwegian yard industry. As we can read in the evening post today, Hydro has done this on the Worm Lange, where many of the assignments are just about to develop and create Norwegian expertise and secure Norwegian shipyards. If we somehow send everything out of Norway, we're missing the valuable competences that are built up. That is what the Government ignores when it is not willing to go into action to ensure that the assignment goes to Norway and to Norwegian workers. It is worrying that once again has looked up in the empty toolbox, seeing that it is empty and then leave Statoil with the toolbox to do exactly what they want at any time. If they want to send the gas out of Norway, it's okay! One does not take the social responsibility one has, and had before. Here the government should be more offensive. In addition, SV has a proposal that we would like to obtain an electrification in the Statfjord field, and besides get an assessment of using CO2 to landfill the greenhouse gas CO2 to get more oil out, and to reduce the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. This is also one of the areas that I have the impression that Statoil won't do anything about, either because of electrification or because of CO2 deposits. They create some computations – sometimes supported by other groupings – that link any project to new technology development for CO2 deposition, which actually reduces the greenhouse gas problem. What does the government do? It ensures that Statoil is given the right, by not making demands on Statoil, for which the Government is actually the General Assembly, or by taking fiscal measures that can realise such projects. Here it is amazing that one actually has to go to BP to see that someone is taking offensive action in relation to electrification. The Norwegian government, or Statoil, will abandon all such projects, and the government will not realize CO2 injection. The government says: OK, Statoil, they'll get what they want! If they want to send the gas to England, it's okay. What they want is that for the Norwegian government. It is worrying when the toolbox is so empty, in another case, as it is for this government. Finally, I take up the SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1499	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1502	We have a plan for the development and operation of the Statfjord field and the Tampen Link pipeline. The Statfjord field is located on the boundary line between the Norwegian and British parts of the continental shelf and is regulated by the Statfjord contract. The changed field plans involve a transition from oil to gas through a pressure load in the reservoir. The gas will be exported to the United Kingdom via a gas export pipeline, Tampen Link. This solution also characterizes the Committee's position, which I shall come back to a little bit. The changed plans for the Statfjord field correspond to the wish both of the players on the base and of the political environment to make better use of existing fields on Norwegian pedestal. The rate of utilisation will increase to 68 pst. for oil and 74 pst. for gas, and the operation is extended until 2018. The total investment for the expansion is estimated at NOK 16 billion, and the profitability is calculated at present value of NOK 9.9 billion. The proposal refers to the fact that thorough investigations have been carried out with regard to the impact on other activities and the environment. These considerations have been adequately addressed, according to both the assessment of the Directorate and the Department, and it is therefore recommended that the Statfjord Senphase project and the Tampen Link project be implemented. It is desirable that the possibility of electrification of parts of Norwegian socket be tried. The consideration of climate emissions and our commitments under the Kyoto Agreement suggests that the cap can contribute significantly to Norwegian emission reductions, in particular of CO2 through electrification. This has also been assessed in this context, but the operator has calculated the cost of becoming so high that it could threaten the profitability of the field. The Statfjord field is therefore not recommended for electrification. The proposition supports such an assessment. The planned Tampen Link pipeline means the transport of gas between the Statfjord field and the United Kingdom via the FLAGs pipeline on a British base. This transport solution is recommended, inter alia: justified in terms of costs against other alternatives. The management is subject to the framework agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom on the laying and operation of subsea connecting pipelines and, for this reason, is subject to approval by both countries. Tampen Link is integrated into Gassled, operated by Statoil ASA until start-up, and then transferred to Gassco AS, which then assumes operator responsibility. The approval is valid until 2032. I am pleased that the project and the Government's recommendations receive broad political support in the committee's position. In the comments in the vote, some parties point to the wish that more of our NHG should be transferred to Norway for further processing. The consideration of land-based value creation and employment suggests that of course I support such a wish. Nevertheless, each project has to be assessed separately, taking into account technical and economic considerations. It is unrealistic to believe that, with the amount of gas we have on the Norwegian base, we should have the capacity to handle everything in Norway. The majority also indicates that in connection with Tampen Link there have been thorough assessments of different alternative transport solutions, including Kårstø. The majority emphasise that there is not enough capacity in the existing Norwegian transport and processing system to handle the gas from the Statfjord field. Such a solution would require significant additional investment, undermine the necessary profitability throughout the project and create uncertainty as to whether this is feasible. This would hardly be a good contribution to neither employment nor value creation in Norway. The majority nevertheless support the assessment and recommendation of the Ministry of Oil and Energy in this specific case. Let me express an understanding of the commitment that underlies the comments, from among other things. The Labour Party, but I do not share the concern that the solution adopted today undermines the objective of using more natural gas in Norway. In this case, the government continues the established practice of the actors themselves choosing the solutions for each project, based on technical and economic considerations. There would be a breach of this practice of government and magnification to over test these assessments, and impose other solutions on companies. It would undermine the position of actors, in this case Statoil, and the mandate given to them by Stortinget – and among others. former Minister of Oil and Energy, Olav Aksensen. Despite the particular comments, I am pleased that the Workers' Party will nevertheless join in the recommendations presented by the Government in the proposition regarding the development of the Statfjord Senphase project and the Tampen Link. The project is firmly anchored, also politically, and the Government's recommendations have received the support requested, also in relation to the transport solution Tampen Link.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1535	The rating holders have now applied for the approval of a modified plan for the development and operation of the Statfjord field. Oil production is in the process of reaching the end, and the rightholders want to change the field so that they can extract large parts of the gas and the residual oil in the field. That's good. Following the modified plan, the field can be maintained until 2018. Alternatively, the field was to be closed in 2009. The SFT and the Marine Research Institute have some critical comments related to emissions of water produced from the installation. Otherwise, there seems to be wide disintegration about the solutions that have been chosen. So it's not on this plane that the disagreement lies. It has always been the case in the choice of transport solutions for gas, that an overall assessment has been made. Norwegian industry, industrial development and regional policy interests are also taken into account. It has been an important principle in the management of petroleum that resources should be under Norwegian control and that value creation should take place mainly in Norway. The plans for Tampen Link break with this principle. There is a marked breach of previous management when unprocessed natural gas is planned to be exported directly to the United Kingdom. It undermines the potential for domestic value creation and reduces the basis for long-term jobs in Norway. Many have, as you know, engaged in this matter. Among other things, many municipalities have made contact. This is probably not my home country, but seven coastal districts, from the North to Rogaland, express their concern in a request to the Stortinget that short-term gas transport solutions should be chosen solely on the basis of the needs of the companies. They are concerned that Tampen Link should be built with greater capacity and longer concession time than necessary for the Statfjord field. They believe that it is set up for direct exports — and not landing — also by natural gas from other coastal areas. Also from the Telemark County Municipality there has been a letter that says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is under construction extensions both at Kårstø and at the petrochemical plants in Bamble in Telemark. Even after the upgrading of Kårstø in 2005, the need for ethane in Grenland is in the long run greater than the supply of Kårstø.’ Understandably, they are concerned that some of the gas from the Tampen area must be made available to Norwegian industry. The centre party considers that there is a need for a comprehensive review of Norwegian gas infrastructure and Norwegian gas management. The gas pipelines have a long service life, and they will play an important role in managing the management of Norwegian gas in the future. It is necessary to see more fields and larger areas in context when establishing future transport solutions. It is important that we maintain that there are broad societal assessments on the basis of which decisions are taken. Short-term business economic criteria must not become exclusive. Development solutions must be seen in relation to industrial opportunities and contribute to ensuring well-being, employment and a better environment. District policy interests must also weigh heavily, so that the counties and regions can benefit from natural resources picked up off their own coasts. It is necessary to ensure that relevant landing opportunities are explored. There is therefore a clear need to get a separate wholesale message addressing Norwegian gas infrastructure and Norwegian gas management. Future transport solutions for Norwegian gas need to be considered, with a significant emphasis on the social aspects. I am pleased that there is a majority for such a review of gas policy. There is a need for long-term and well-explored solutions when building a gas pipeline that may lie for 80 to 100 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1561	Statfjord has contributed over 450 billion dollars in taxes and taxes to the Norwegian community in 25 years of production. Now the rightholders have decided to implement the Statfjord Senphase project. Realisation of this project extends the lifetime of Statfjord to at least 2018. Realisation of the project will increase the extraction rate of the field to 68 pst. for oil and 74 pst. for gas. The implementation of this project will maintain employment in the sector at a high level over the years to come. It makes a significant contribution to the value creation of the Norwegian base and, last but not least, the reduction of the annual emissions of CO2, NOx, VOC and methane from the field due to reduced energy needs. I am very pleased that a joint energy and environmental committee expresses their satisfaction with the project. This is an example of a final phase project of which the Government wants to see more in the coming years. The government is very busy facilitating increased extraction from mature areas to maximise the value creation from Norwegian Socket. The treatment of this proposition has also involved the Tampen Link pipeline. In the form of a note, the opposition is critical for the transmission of the gas to the United Kingdom. I understand the desire to use Statfjord's late-phase gas in Norway, but it's not a real alternative. First of all, there is no willingness to invest in the Kårstø option. Due to the lack of capacity in the Kårstø facilities, the Kårstø option would result in additional investments of at least DKK 1,2 billion, thus continuing the current production on Statfjord would be more profitable than a late-stage project. In other words, there would be no Statfjord late-stage project. The export of gas to Kårstø is therefore not a real alternative. The state-of-the-art facilities are currently being run for full capacity. There has been an ongoing extension of installations and the last upgrade project has not yet been completed. The fact that Skarv appears to be exported via Kårstø will contribute to the long-term exploitation of Kårstø plants. An expensive additional capacity investment for a short period of time would not make sense. If someone thinks we can oblige companies to invest in solutions that are not profitable for them, and then they think they're going to implement these projects, it's wrong. I remind you that all the rights holders of the Statfjord licence are commercial operators who are going to market their gas on market terms, based on commercial negotiations. Since the Gas Negotiations Committee, GFU, was wound up in 2001, as a result of the EEA Agreement, each company now disposes of its own gas. This is one of the pillars of the current petroleum extraction and deposition system on Norwegian base. I recall that there has been a broad political consensus on this for a long time. In other words, it is not possible to reverse that time. To impose national solutions on companies also violates the principle of free movement of goods and services in the EEA. The practice of the Petroleum Act and the decisions of the authorities must be within the EEA Agreement. I record that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party refer to the Petroleum Act in order to promote so-called national solutions. It is not possible to use the Petroleum Act to force the companies to send the gas to Norway. The fact that the SV and the Central Party do not take into account the EEA Agreement’s legislation and obligations is not surprising. However, the fact that the Workers' Party chooses to ignore the EEA Agreement is actually more than eye-catching. The development of Norwegian pedestal must be based on profitable projects driven by the companies. There has been a broad political consensus on this for many, many years. In fact, it has also been managed by former workers' party governments. That's why I wonder if there are new signals coming from the Workers' Party that you really want to go back to a different system than what you've actually been involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1589	The Council of State actually shows that politics is the art of the possible, and one can find arguments for it. So I'm going to try to answer a little bit in relation to that. The Labour Party has not said that we should oblige any company to carry the gas ashore. But I think it is alarming, especially after my post, that the Council of State does not record that something was done both in relation to the Tjeldbergodden and in relation to Snow White from Norwegian authorities to secure the gas to Norway. It is such that one does not get any free float if one has a pipe just out of the country, and not in. So that's what's going on, what can be done politically to secure the industry in Norway's DR gas. Nor have we thought at all about breaking anything in relation to the EEA Agreement. We refer to the petroleum law as a good law, which is intended to ensure that everyone can take part in these possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1594	It is not possible to use the Petroleum Act as a witness to the truth in order to oblige companies to bring the gas into Norway. That's not possible. You can use many other types of arguments, but you can't use the petroleum law. It is not possible in relation to the EEA Agreement, and I think that the Workers' Party should take over. Secondly, it is the case, and it has been the Workers' Party itself that all the rightholders on Norwegian pedestals are commercial operators, and it is those who are to market their gas, based on commercial negotiations. GFU was closed in 2001. So the Workers' Party was the one who put power – it was the Stoltenberg government and the State Council that maneuvered the Act – and they made it very clear that the time had passed when it was possible to impose such a responsibility on the companies, and then in this particular case Statoil. Yes, former State Council Akssen said it very clearly that it was actually not possible: ‘The company may not be liable for such liability either.’ It came out in the proposition that the Axis itself made at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1606	In the case of Statfjord’s late phase project, a significant increase in the lifetime of the field is seen, while a much better use of resources is also being made. An overall increase has repeatedly pointed out the importance of increasing the level of use in Norwegian fields, which will benefit the Norwegian State, both directly and indirectly, from being the largest player on the base. I would therefore like to ask what the Government will actually do to facilitate and stimulate increased extraction of the fields. For example, would tax treatment be considered as a volume deduction, in order to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1611	The government has contributed to the greatest extent in this period to focus on how we can increase the rate of extraction in the mature fields we have. The most important contribution we can make is to ensure that, on the part of the authorities, sufficient funding is allocated to research and development, so that new interventions can be made that can help to increase the rate of exploitation in the coming years. That's the most important thing we can do to help the companies with. It turns out that with this example, in terms of new technology, you have an opportunity not only to get more oil, but also more gas out of the existing fields. It's interesting to take a look back. When the Ekofisk field came into operation in the 1970s, the extraction rate was 17 pst. Today we have an average of 46 pst. We have an ambition of 50 pst. I've challenged both the Oil Directorate and the companies that we should have a greater ambition, so that in the future we get even more out of the field. Then there is research and development that is the essential in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1618	SV is of course positive that one here deals with a case where one will increase the extraction rate to 68 pst. for oil and 74 pst. for gas. It's positive. But then there are also measures that can be seen that no time has been spent in this matter, i.e. CO2 injection as a means. It's probably said that it's too expensive in this field, but when it's about CO2 injection, it's always too expensive if you just belong to the company that owns the most, i.e. Statoil. Then there won't be any of this. That's the position SV feels the Council of State is in. What Statoil mein is right, is right for the Norwegian government. The Council of States may then stand there and say that it is not possible to do so, and it is not possible to do so, for the reason being the EEA Agreement. We cannot do anything for Norwegian shipyards because the EEA Agreement says no. Then we are at the point we were in the industrial power regime debate. So this government has no traveler, and it's talking all the way around that things aren't possible. Now the government has to show willingness to do things actively for the Norwegian workshop industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1633	I can reassure the representative that the Government is very positive about looking at different measures that will help increase the extraction rate on Norwegian pedestal. But once again, it's an advantage to be realistic. This project that we are promoting today, that is, Statfjord's late phase, is helping to increase the extraction rate of both oil and gas. We're totally dependent on realising that project. Yes, it's actually also the solution chosen to take the gas to the Tampen Link system. If the project is not selected, the holders say they are not interested in realising this project. So what's the result? Well, it's that the Statfjord project that works today is going to continue, with a final closure in 2009. Now you look at a new solution and listen to the advice and recommendations that come from the companies, because it's also that you have to be able to realize some projects on the Norwegian base, it has to be profitable for the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1640	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1645	I just want the word for a brief summary, because I think there are many things that now seem unclear in relation to what the council has been talking about. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that several municipalities have sent letters to the committee because they are concerned about what is now happening to Tampen Link. Workers in the oil sector are concerned, and a majority in the Grand Duchy is also concerned. The Council of State suggests that the Petroleum Act cannot be used to force any companies to bring the gas to land. I do not know anyone who has claimed it, but it is well that the Petroleum Act is there because there is something in that law, and that the law is actually to be used. I assume that tomorrow the Council of State will take the initiative to either remove the Petroleum Act, or be revised by the Stortinget, so that something can be done over time, if the Council of State believes that the Snow White project has not come because it has been engaged in a political craft to get that project in Norway. I assume that it is the desire to develop both industry and energy that underpins the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Thus, it is also the intention of the Petroleum Act that the whole country should be able to benefit from the values that lie off our coast. Then I assume that a significant speed is being set on getting infrastructure to land, and that the Government will return to it as soon as possible, at least in the budget for the harvest, so that we can ensure that the free flow referred to by the Council of State becomes real, and that it will not be so that we conclude agreements with other countries that the free flow will only apply one way. We in the Labour Party think this is worrying. We had hoped that the Council of State could take it inward, and actually said that this does not mean that in the future you should send the gas out of the country, but that you should try to get to an industrial development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1658	I feel it is my duty to make the Storting aware that when, among other things. The working party has referred to the Petroleum Act § 1-2 as a basis that can be used to order that the gas, in this case, should not go to the United Kingdom, but go into Norway, that is not possible! This is contrary to the EEA Agreement. It is not a basis for decisions or decisions, but it is a purpose. Using this basis for a decision that favours national solutions violates the principle of free movement of goods and services, and it would initially be contrary to EEA law. At the time when working with this law, the European Commission and ESA § 1-2 of the Petroleum Act accepted it under the clear condition that it is perceived as a provision of purpose, and thus not a basis for decisions. Secondly, it is not the case in Norway today that it is not possible to achieve industrial developments in gas. Of all the gas exported from Norwegian Socket today, more than 60 pst is actually. of the gas entering a Norwegian processing plant prior to its export. This share could increase considerably in the years to come, when the production of Worm Lange and Snow White begins. The problem for Norwegian industrial development in the case of natural gas is not, as I see it, the supply of gas, but to ensure that a person gets a profitable use of the gas. It was precisely that the representative of Klungland and the majority here in the Chamber for some time ago agreed that we should now look at and consider what kind of opportunities it was to realise, among other things. a pipeline solution both to Grenland and in Trondheimsfjorden, to see if there could be a better economy in the projects that existed. At the time, a broad majority in this room actually agreed that it was volume. This means that there are several users, and that you are willing to pay more for the gas that's going through this pipe, which can help you get profitability in this project, and that it's possible to realize it. That's one last point that I want to raise. I might think this is presented in a slightly simple way, that it is such that we can only order and impose Statoil when the state is a majority victory. No, I've actually come up with a staging proposition for which Akselsen is responsible, as the former Council of State. It says: ‘It will not be the purpose of a privately privatised Statoil to take socio-economic considerations into account when presenting development options for the infrastructure. Nor may such liability be imposed on the company.’;» So it has been the policy of the Workers' Party. But now I record trying to sell another message, as if it were another kind of wanted policy. I think, with respect to reporting, that the Workers' Party should stick too well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1677	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1685	Then we are ready to vote on the matters that are listed on today's map. The President makes it clear that there's going to be a relatively long voting, so we're all going to be tightened up!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1695	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-4, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 9, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out a survey of sites with a large untapped potential for creating activities related to local history and a plan for the realisation of local activities and points of communication at these sites.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1731	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals from the Government in the context of the 2006 State Budget for the introduction of measures that can contribute to the production of several foreign films in Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate possible measures to strengthen the cultural industries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1753	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. A national pop/rock experience centre is established located at Trondheim.2. The State shall contribute to the establishment of regional centres in several places in the country focusing on local pop/rock and being the venue for exhibitions from the National Experience Centre. These should also be seen in the context of an extension of the Norway network, so that they can be live venues.3. The State shall contribute to the implementation of the plans to establish a rock centre at Schous in Oslo.4. A national competence centre for rock support functions is established in Namsos.5. In the light of the investigation by ABM Development and the hearings, the Government is asked to submit a case on the establishment and location of a national pop/rock archive in the context of the 2006 state budget.’ In this respect, the rapporteurs have asked that voting be done on a point-by-point basis and that it be first voted on paragraph 1, then on paragraph 4, and then on the other points. – This is how it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1786	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2006 State Budget, to submit proposals on how to ensure the continued operation of the film studio at Jar before any sale is carried out.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with professional organisations and companies, is asked to develop a strategy for stepping up Norwegian music exports, including concrete instruments for increased exports.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the purchase process for fictional literature also contributes to the access of foreign educational institutions with Norwegian or Scandinavian subjects to new Norwegian literature.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1813	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make an assessment of a scheme in which private companies can deduct the purchase of art from current artists in the context of the 2006 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1828	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to the implementation of the plans of the Centre for Arts and Crafts, Birka, and to propose the necessary measures in the 2006 budget.’ The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1870	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1902	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 5, by Grethe G. Fossum on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. It is first voted on the proposals of the Progress Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the State to cover the costs of excavating automatically peaceful cultural memories.’ Suggestion 2 reads: ‘The Government asks for proposals to introduce a general exemption from the payment of VAT on goods and services used in works on protected buildings and civil engineering or compensation schemes having equivalent effect.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘It is assumed that cooperation will be established between the Riksantikvaren, Kulturmädefond and the church owners involved in the financing of a sound level of maintenance for all peace and protected churches.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1938	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider opening up the Cultural Memory Fund to finance a form of grant scheme for specialist craftsmen in the cultural memory field.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals so that the earnings of the Information Society Fund can be used for church purposes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1968	Here it has to be articulated, because there's an alternating majority behind each of the two terms. It's voted over the first paragraph, and here the president expects the Workers' Party to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e1983	It is then voted over the second term, and here the President assumes that the Labour Party and the Advance Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2006	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2043	During the debate, 43 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4-11, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 12-14, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 15-18, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 19–43, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 7, by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left has been converted into a transmission proposal, and the text will be amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government introduce a temporary ban on the import of tropical wood until a credible certification system for timber can guarantee that the wood originates from ecologically and socially sound extraction.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–43, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The size asks the Government of the State Budget for 2006 to submit an overall plan for the investment in marine research, including a full funding plan for MAREANO for the 2006-2010 implementation period, and an assessment of AMOEBE.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government, in the context of the 2006 budget, to propose a system for the eco-labelling of Norwegian farmed fish that may be operational from 1 January 2006 and which can improve the reputation and strengthen the export opportunities of Norwegian farmed fish.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with an action plan to ensure the blue-green structure of our urban areas.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish Norway’s first urban park during 2006.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make it less attractive to acquire a land-based vehicle.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a national programme for environmental cleaning in kindergartens, schools and playgrounds, as well as to ensure that facilities for children are not established without finding that there are no environmental pollutants in the land, buildings or toys.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government requests the evaluation of the pilot projects for decontamination in the contaminated seabed – in Tromsø, Trondheim, Sandefjord, Kristiansand and Horten – to submit proposals for a priority recovery plan with funding for the 17 most polluted fjords with a view to completion of clean-up by 2010.’» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the legislation and reverse the burden of proof so that instead of the authorities having to prove that a substance is harmful, the industry is responsible for proving that it is not.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen Norwegian chemicals policy by increasing the focus on chemicals that accumulate in the human body and a holistic view of how the consumer is exposed to chemicals from all sources. A national programme for the active phasing-out of the most harmful chemicals from consumer products and other goods to which consumers are exposed shall be implemented, inter alia, through the use of time-fixed transitional arrangements and the stimulation of substitute products.’;» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prohibit the DEP in cosmetics.’ [[Di-ethyl phthalate]] Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2006 State Budget, to provide a package of measures actively contributing to the rapid and safe phasing-out of PCBs in use and release of ENØK potential by replacing fluorescent luminaires with PCB capacitors.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a full overview of non-civil industrial radioactive waste in Norway and to provide adequate landfills and to pay for the clean-up and storage of facilities owned by the State.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to put in place a mortgage scheme for disposable barbecues with operations from 1 July 2005.’» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of a state enterprise to promote waste prevention and recovery [[GJENOVA]] Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive report on the effects of climate change during 2006, in particular on how the Norwegian society and economy will be affected by climate change. This means the expected ring-effects and how action and societal planning in all sectors concerned can reduce the impacts of climate change.’» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a target for Norway to halve its climate pollution by 2020 and to work towards equivalent binding international targets. Work needs to be started as soon as possible to develop concrete, sector-specific action plans to identify where and how the reductions will be implemented.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government of the State Budget for 2006 is asked to report on Norwegian contributions to global particulate pollution, and to work nationally and internationally to promote regimes that reduce global particulate pollution.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government of the State Budget for 2006 is asked to submit a proposal for low-carbon urban zones to improve local air quality.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish instruments to prevent any conversion of ships and fishing vessels from diesel to heavy oil as fuel but to stimulate a gas transition. One of these instruments shall be the funding of NOx mitigation measures on ships and fishing vessels.’;» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to concreteise the National Action Plan on Sustainable Development with the numerical setting of verifiable targets, and to report on the achievement of the objectives and on the sectoral responsibility, as well as on the efforts to be made by each department.’ [[National Agenda 21]] Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks whether it is appropriate to place the most important environmental legislation in its own environmental law.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to evaluate the management of national natural values by municipalities with a view to establishing more robust administrative and decision-making regimes, ensuring the preservation of national natural values.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government, as part of the five-year programme for the further development of local environmental protection and sustainable communities, asks the Government to strengthen voluntary environmental protection activities and to ensure that voluntary organisations are included in line with the municipal sector in the follow-up to National Agenda 21 and the Government’s modernisation work towards municipalities.’ [[KS]] Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The decision requests that the Government in the consultation proposal state. the implementation of the EU Water Directive describes the administrative, legal and economic consequences that the implementation will have for municipalities. The Government is further asked to explain this and the state of implementation in the context of the 2006 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up national plans for the development of wind and wave power, but assumes that prudent expansion can continue until the plans are available’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2227	The proposals are then put to the vote. 15–18, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to impose unilateral national environmental taxes which may impair the competitiveness of Norwegian industry.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to abolish unilateral national environmental taxes which impair the competitiveness of Norwegian industry.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the removal of the prohibition of construction and removal in the 100-metre seat belt along the sea.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refrain from promoting environmental zones in the Barents Sea.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2259	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–14, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to manage the royal crab as an undesirable species in Norway, by taking measures to prevent the spread and reduce the royal crab population west of Magerøy, and to place documented weight and resources in changing that administration of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission to an objective to prevent the spread and reduce the royal crab population.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2006 State Budget, to explain the content of a clean and inclusive process for assessing petroleum-free areas and to establish the overall management plan for the Lofoten-Barents Sea.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in its proposal for a further national commitment to biofuels adapted to Norwegian circumstances to implement EU Council Directive 2003/30/EC and to set up a stepping-up plan for the use of biofuels, and to require a degree of incorporation of 5 pst. by 2010.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2286	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6 and 8–11 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals for laws on the sustainable use and protection of urban land. The Marka in Oslo and surrounding municipalities are responsible for such protection. In the case of other urban parcels concerned, the Stortinget is asked to make a more detailed assessment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all sites with old coastal rainforests are immediately at their peak and to provide a protection plan for the Norwegian coastal rainforest.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law of 28 June 1957 No. 16 on outdoor life, with a view to strengthening the protection of the law on the right of the general public to move and reside in the coastal zone along sea and watercourses.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work for the international certification system for timber, timber and timber products which are legally harvested in the framework of ecological and socially sound forest management. Faithful certification schemes must impose absolute and site-specific requirements on the extraction of timber. The arrangements must be open to the participation of all relevant parties, be controlled by independent third parties, and take into account relevant biodiversity, indigenous peoples concerned and the rights and interests of local groups, and be transparent.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for new, more stringent rules and measures to reduce the extent of demarcation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to stimulate cross-sectoral action locally. The establishment of a National Agenda 21 fund in which municipalities may apply for project funding must be one of the measures under consideration.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for increased competence in local environmental management and a concrete approach to stimulate cross-sectoral action locally.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2334	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the promotion of an action plan for the coordination of sustainable use and management of protected areas in Norway. The action plan shall be drawn up and operationalised by the Ministry of the Environment, but in close cooperation with other departments concerned, and shall be promoted to the Stortinget at the latest in the 2006 budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2351	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the prompt reintroduction of the system of legal assistance to municipalities in need of it in the protection of the coastal zone. Funds for the continuation of the scheme shall be committed in the 2006 budget.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals on how to facilitate more natural kindergartens and schools in the 2006 budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2379	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2410	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – Proposal No. 1, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party – proposal No. 2, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party It is voted on by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify the stocking target for wolves in order to include in the overall stocking target of 3 annual juveniles bordering at least half its territory in Norway and in the ordinary Norwegian game management.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2440	There is an alternative proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:36 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2459	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee The proposal of the Progress Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Motor Traffic in Lands and Waterways so as to allow the use of snowmobiles in special loops to be made general and that the authority granted by law is transferred from the county to the individual municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2489	There is an alternative proposal from the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Motor Traffic in Lands and Waterways, so that the authority granted by law is transferred from the State to the individual municipality.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will now support the proposal of the Central Party subsidiaryly. - That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2510	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size does not agree with the permission of the Glommens and the Laeken Group to transfer water through the construction of a tunnel between the Breidal Water and the Raudal Water.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2542	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Rolf Terje Klungland, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose, in the context of the 2006 State Budget, measures to ensure that Statfjord is electrified, deploys the greenhouse gas CO2 for more oil extraction and realises zero marine emissions in the context of the Statfjord late-stage project.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2570	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2577	The President assumes that the representative should have voted in favour of the proposal of the Socialist Left. Then there are 83 votes against and 14 votes in favour. This proposal has not been adopted. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish arrangements to ensure that companies awarded yard contracts to Norwegian Socket do not receive State subsidies and meet Norwegian requirements for HMS and employee rights.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider requiring oil companies to provide socio-economic analyses/assessments of the various transport solutions explored in future development cases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2633	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-2.ana.ud2677e2653	There is no record.
