ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e126	From the representative Synnøve Konglevoll, an application for welfare leave is made from 7 March to 18 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Knut Werner Hansen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e147	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Finn Martin Vallersnes. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e163	The National Audit Office has carried out a study on the sustainable use of reindeer resources in Finnmark and has presented its findings and assessments in an attitude to the Stortinge, as the National Audit Office will do and do. The main conclusion in this case is that in parts of the areas where there is reindeer farming in this country today, there is some significant disparity between the available grazing resources during the harvest, winter and spring periods and the number of reindeer on these pastures. In particular, this applies to West Finland and Karasjok. This is due to complex and complex conditions. On the one hand, we can see a certain change in vegetation, where the important lavender is replaced by other crops, or that areas of the pastures simply become sand and gravel. But also the intact pastures are being reduced, which includes, among other things, is due to too many pure. It is not just nature itself and for heavy grazing and tramp damage that must bear the blame for this. Relatively large interventions of non-reindustry contribute to the reduction of grazing areas. Here we can talk about increased motor travel into the areas, construction, roads, construction, etc. The studies show that the industry is not sufficiently regulated and not sufficiently clear. The industry has a very long tradition of self-management, which in turn contributes to complex conditions in terms of the regulatory and sanctioning possibilities under the Law on Reinforcement. In order to achieve sustainable clean-up, a clean-up agreement has put in place economic instruments, in addition to the legal instruments in place there. However, the National Audit Office found that the financial measures did not lead to the desired results, particularly in West Finland. In addition, the clean-up contract is a very complicated agreement with comprehensive regulations, and we can see relatively large fluctuations from one year to the next. This, of course, makes it difficult for operators to plan their operations in the long term. Predictability is important and necessary here as in the business world. The industry needs an overall review of the framework conditions, and a comprehensive long-term strategy is needed for this industry. The Committee is aware that a new law on reindeer management is being worked on and assumes that this work is given the necessary priority in order to meet the very strong needs of clear and effective management systems now. We hope that this law comes into place as soon as possible. There can be no doubt about the importance of the reindeer industry to the Sami community, to the Sami culture and also to the Sami identity. In addition, there is a significant industry in parts of the country. Society has a clear responsibility and obligation to ensure that the traditional nutritional basis is not weakened or degraded. This obligation is not based solely on appropriateness or moral or commercial thinking; it is a constitutional obligation. In some contexts, and with great respect for international law and the international conventions, the aim is to ensure reindeer management and also to ensure the right to operate. It is clear to the majority that, at the point of intersection of the individual’s right to nutrition under those provisions and taking into account the nutritional basis, the safeguarding of the nutritional basis must be given priority. We think it's a safe understanding of the international commitments we've made. In the further development of Norwegian reindeer management policy, it would be important, in the majority's view, to give the Sameting an increased opportunity for influence, while, of course, this industry itself needs to be heard to a large extent. We see the complexity of the reindeer industry and the conflicting interests that arise periodically and that may have to arise. It is therefore very important that the Council of State and his administrative apparatus take the necessary and overriding decisions and that these decisions be put to work without undue delay. I won't say much more than this. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for a report that has given Stortinget greater transparency and also increased understanding of a significant part of our business. Finally, I want to make a clarification. In this setting, which the representatives now have in mind, it is repeatedly referred to as ‘upper reindeer’ of 63 700. That's wrong. The right number is going to be 64,300, but I don't think it changes the content of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e193	The National Audit Office’s study shows that the objective of ecologically sustainable reindeer management in Finnmark has not been achieved. The study also shows that there is a serious situation with regard to the development of pure numbers in Finnmark. On 30 January 2002, the Board of Directors decided on an upper reindeer figure of approx. 64,000 animals for the summer pastures, while the reindeer on 1 April of the same year amounted to 73,000 animals. Per. On 1 April 2003, the number had increased to more than 80000 animals, one year later to have increased further. The Progress Party has not wanted to accept this situation with many animal tragedy and a devastating chaos that has developed on the Finnmarks. It is well known that grazing resources have been greatly reduced in the last 30 years, and this is largely due to the fact that the reindeer numbers are and have been too high. It was in the mid-1970s that the politicians found out that reindeer management was to be a state support area and a reindeer management agreement was established. During this period, many young people entered the sewerage business. They had expectations and invested heavily, but the negative results soon turned out. The aid schemes contributed to a significantly higher number of professionals than the nutrient base should provide, with too many clean and degraded natures as a result. The result was both economic and environmental problems. The Progress Party has constantly promoted the necessary proposals which, had they been adopted, would have improved the situation. I am disappointed that we have remained alone on alternative solutions. We could understand that if other parties had made constructive proposals to address the problems, but they have shone with their absence, and there has obviously not been a strong enough pressure on the industry to make it accept the decisions taken by the authorities. What we can see is that the work on reducing the reindeer according to the policies of the Government and the majority of the population has not worked. This is also supported by the National Audit Office’s report. The Progress Party believes that it can no longer be accepted that the reindeer operators do not follow up the projects undertaken by the Government. It's the purest fall when we see in the last few years reindeer management agreements that in the relationship between the state and the industry you can't solve the problems associated with a top reindeer. The whole scheme has lost credibility, and respect for both magnification, government and reintroduction agencies will be further undermined if the authorities do not take the necessary measures to actually reduce the reintroduction rate. When the environmental, animal protection and district problems are visible to all, they give an impression of paralysis. If we're going to continue to point out these misunderstandings without doing anything about it, it's going to create the impression that big business and government are only taking the floor in the debate and expressing their opinions in order to have something to fill the debate with. This is unfortunate because the problems are growing and growing. We therefore want to clarify, through proposals, the objective of reducing the purity, and therefore propose that the Government be given the power to use the necessary instruments to achieve the objective of reducing the purity to approx. 64,000 animals. We do this to stress to the Government and also to the actors in this industry that patience is over and that results need to be presented without delay in order not to further increase the damage. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e208	The representative of Henrik Rød has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e211	The case rapporteur made a good report on the matter, and I will not repeat all his excellent comments. I just want to go into a couple of points where we separate layers with his party. First of all, the issue of bar area driving: there is not necessarily any disagreement in the committee that there is too much bar area driving on the Finnmarks, but the majority, consisting of SV, the Christian People's Party and the Right, goes a little further by saying that a significant reduction in bar area driving is required in Finnmark. I also have to say that it is a little strange to hear the representative from the Progress Party being so concerned about the environmental situation at Finnmarkswirdda without the fact that it seems to be serious enough to go into the situation of bar area driving. We believe that this is one of the measures that are absolutely necessary if we are to re-establish an ecological balance on the Finnmarks. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party to empower the Government to bring down the reindeer number, it is our opinion – unless the Council of State says that this is not the case – that the Industry Committee has dealt with this matter and has given the Government guidelines and powers for how to deal with it. We assume that if there are powers from the Storting that are missing, the Government will ask for this. But until that happens, we assume that this matter has been well dealt with by the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e222	The aim of the reindeer management policy is to secure a future cultural, economic and ecological reindeer management in Norway. This will include: state that grazing, operating patterns and operating methods must be adapted to the natural basis and national objectives for the conservation of the natural environment. In areas where it has been overgrazing, the balance must be adjusted in order to ensure the short and long-term viability of the industry. The Committee's plurality, all of which have underlined its high value for sustaining and developing a living Sami society, economically, socially and culturally. The National Audit Office's investigation indicates that a change in vegetation is taking place in the area under investigation in West Finland and parts of Karasjok, with the result that the low cover is replaced by other crops or impediments, i.e. stones and gravel. Among other things, its nutritional value is reduced by its purity, which in turn may lead to a permanent waving of the traditional nutritional basis. The Christian People's Party will join the National Audit Office in pointing out that the number of reindeer is too high in relation to grazing resources, and that the wrong use of seasonal pastures helps to deplete pastures. It is very unfortunate that the Reinhriftsrådet (Reinhriftsrådet) has not been implemented since 2002, when an upper limit on pure, as the case-speaker, mentioned, was set. Per. On 31 March 2004, the number of clean areas in the area was approx. 96 000, and after what has been explained, there is little evidence that the number per person. 1 April 2005 will be substantially reduced. The attempt at voluntary regulation of the reindeer rate with economic instruments has not been made in West Finland. This must be taken by now. It is urgent to take action to ensure that the number of pure comes under control. The Christian People's Party believes that it must be a priority task to develop good guidelines for the distribution of the tax on individual reindeer operators by reducing the number of animals. The relationship between owners of small reindeer flocks and owners must be clarified. Together, the Government must decide to make proposals on priorities if a reduction in the number of concessions is necessary. The framework conditions we currently have for reindustry do not seem to be adequate. Although the reindeer management law opens up for the regulation of upper reindeer numbers, this has not been implemented in practice, as I can see it. One of the reasons seemed to be that reindeer management laws are largely based on judgement, and that habits play a decisive role in the assessment. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food must establish a management system whereby external establishments located in the Ministry implement government orders. The National Audit Office points out that this work needs to be viewed in a context. Proposals for changes to district limits, division into zones and the setting of grazing times must be seen together with the setting of the upper reindeer per. districts of the current reindeer areas. We must take responsibility for further development of a reindeer management system, including: by clarifying and clarifying the basis of regulation, so that clean-up management is better able to carry out its tasks. This also includes an assessment of the adequacy of the resources allocated. A new law on reindeer operations is under way. The Christian People's Party has expectations of this work. Rules on depreciation, tax deductions, etc. one of them should be reviewed with a view to facilitating rational nutrition. There are wide variations between different areas. In some areas, one has followed the authority’s instructions and has adapted the number of pure to the grazing basis, while in others, it is operated with far more purity than there is to be. This means that differentiated tools are needed to ensure that the areas that have grazing problems are solved without the other areas being given poorer conditions. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Ministry of Agriculture believes that the administration we have today of the area where reindeer operations are being carried out is not a defence. We need an overarching policy that ensures the basis for a reindeer that takes care of its obligations under the Constitution and international law. The Committee has shown the information on increased use of engine running equipment in outland areas in Finnmark, a number of which have been involved. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Ministry of the Environment will take a closer look at the practice of the legislation, and especially when it comes to the run-of-the-mill, which is the type of motor vehicle that causes the most damage to the environment. A plural number consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Socialist Left Party will emphasize that it is important to be careful with the use of motor vehicle in the outland. It is particularly important to reduce the use of motorcycle on bareland. A large reduction is required in the run-up to Barmark in Finnmark. Pure is the only grazing animal that nourishes the field all year long. He makes it particularly vulnerable to predators, in Finnmark preferably to you, the king eagle and partly gloat and wolf. Bad grazing and many reindeer with a heavy general condition make the cleanness easier to replace for predatory game. There is a lack of consistency between the industry and the authorities on the loss rates resulting from predators, and one has noticed that the Ministry of the Environment has asked questions about the production of the predatory game and whether the methods used by the Rein driftsvervaltninga are good enough. The Committee notes that the Government has been asked to come back to the Stortinget with a separate case on a new compensation scheme during 2006 and suggests that an evaluation of the current practice of the rules is carried out in advance. It is not enough to underline the importance of increased research and knowledge of loss causes as a basis for a common understanding. The National Audit Service believes to a small extent that Stortinget's goal of ecological, economic and culturally viable reindeer management is being set in motion. It is really a weakness that there is a lack of a holistic strategy that can show how clean-up management can help them to achieve their goals. Clearly defined overarching policy objectives with concrete performance indicators combined with guidance and information to reintroduction operators are important elements for a positive outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e252	Let me first say that the post that the rapporteur made today, I can join. That, I think, gave a good picture of what's the actual situation. This is a debate that Stortinget has had at regular intervals over many years. The underlying report of the Riksrevision also covers the period from 1992. However, this is the first time, as far as I know, there is a debate based on a report from the Administrative Audit Office. I think it is useful that we also have that approach to this difficult issue. Because this is compounded. There is more to it than industrial policies and regulations. It is an indigenous industry, it is an industry that is the basis of the Sami population, and the Norwegian society has a special responsibility for that very reason. In addition, important questions of international law are raised in connection with the regulation of this industry. It also shows that this is a complex problem. Equally full, it is also a very concrete and defined problem, namely that there are too many pure, and it must be slaughtered more pure to get a smaller number of clean when nature requires it. There's no disagreement about that. There's been a lot of disagreement about this number, but there's no disagreement that it's too much pure, and that the reindeer have to go down. On this basis, the Rein driftssteuurt took a decision in 2002 to set an upper reindeer for the problem area, namely West Finland, and, in the case of winter bets, mainly the municipality of Kautokeino. You had to go down to a number of 64,300 per cent. 1 April this year, i.e. in a short month. We see that there has been a growing reindeer in the period. What should be the start of a decline from 2002 to 2005 has instead become a period of increasing reindeer numbers. There's probably a lot of complex explanations about it. There is no doubt that there have been some good growing seasons. Sustained calves, etc. has been an important contribution. Then there has been an additional problem in the period that the market situation for reindeer meat, which is a prerequisite for slaughtering more pure, which must be bought and eaten as human food, has also failed in some way. It's also part of the context. This means that not least when the reindeer management agreement – and I'm going to spend some time saying something about what I feel like the issues now and in the future – was dealt with here in June last year, Stortinget was very clear that patience is now beginning to end. When we do not come forward with the good voluntary schemes we have based on – good bonus schemes and boost economic instruments – we need to implement other measures. On that basis, I ordered an overview of the other ‘compulsory measures’, as it has been called, which it is possible to implement in order to be able to regulate the figure. As is well known, the Rein driftsAdministration last harvest, and it was handed to me at the beginning of December what procedures, possibilities, legal constraints, etc. which are in the process of implementing stronger regulatory measures than voluntary measures. In parallel with this, we've done a lot of work on the ministry's part to solve the market situation. It's worked well. Everyone who comes to the food market here in Oslo can see how it's being advertised for reindeer meat, and how it's made available in a different way than it's been done in very many years. I can report today that the market situation is very good, and there seems to be no immediate restrictions for that reason. It also makes us now in a slaughtering season that maybe is the best we've had in very many years. There has never been more clean slaughter in Norway in the last 20 years than what is done in the daytime. Now it's approx. one week from the slaughter season. This makes it so much slaughter that we can have ambitions and hope that we will get a significant reduction in the reindeer per. 1 April. We still don't know for sure the figure, of course, but the last forecasts that came to me in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food at the beginning of this year were that we could at least get under 90 000. In this context, I took an additional measure that meant that one of the major operators in the meat market was able to buy 10,000 extra pure, if necessary with freezing regulation, in order to get the cleanness even significantly downwards. I can report that today too fully. We're going to succeed in adding the 10,000 extra on top. It seems difficult because of the slaughter capacity, because it is now being slaughtered to the full, to achieve the target of 64 300 per. 1 April, but I have a good hope that we'll get down to the 70 000's. Then you have eye contact with the goal that has been set. And then there's an assessment of whether it's a satisfactory number, or whether other measures need to be taken. The question of reindeer management law in this context has been very central, as there is no doubt that there is a need for a new reindeer management law. It's been a few years since there was a NOU with proposals for a new reindeer law. Some of the key is that we have traditionally and in today's legislation wanted to regulate the reindeer industry according to the way you think about government regulation, with farms and districts and organization from the capital, the thinking we use on agriculture and primary industries for the rest, while the draft reindeer law is based on strengthening the Sami way of organizing things through the side- concept, which is also a government administration, if you can say so. I have decided that we should promote a new reindeer law that will be based on the Sami division. Transferring that organisation and the way in which it is applied to Norwegian authorities is a demanding operation. I now have a separate working group consisting of the best lawyers we have in the government apparatus, with the government lawyer, etc., who has a few months to carry out further processing of the draft reindeer law that also makes the page of a applicable authority management organisation. It means, in practice, that we have to get there that it is possible for the authorities to set a figure per. page and that the pages can be held responsible for keeping that figure. We think we should be able to do it. It has been well received in Sami circles that we think this way, but then we will also have the governance in place, by being able to determine the reindeer and start sanctions etc. if it is not kept. The new reindeer law aims at the Government to present the Stortinget before Christmas, with this device. With regard to today's debate and voting, there seems to be a level of conflict in the vote. From my point of view, I see, as the one who is going to operate the decisions and the points of view that emerge in Stortinget, it probably not very that way. I experience it as having a very clear marshall from a total mass of getting down the reindeer number. When Stortingen dealt with this in connection with the reindeer agreement in our company, I was clearly informed by all parties that the reindeer plant will fall, and I believe that I have the necessary powers. That's why I've also warned that if we don't get good enough reindeer per. On 1 April, I have to consider implementing other and stricter regulatory measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e278	The council had a certain vision of how to manage to get the apparatus that was needed to get the development under control again. I just want to stress that it is essential. In the past, we have had a measure of what we believe today is the level at which we should be able to ensure sustainable development. However, developments have come out of control, and it seems that the instrument has not had either the ability or the willingness to implement the countermeasures necessary to prevent the situation from coming out of control altogether. Then I am uncertain as to whether the time perspective set by the Council of State in relation to coming back with a new law on reindeer management is good enough, unless the Council of State should consider speeding up this work in such a way that before the next season, it has a fully processed law and a fully processed instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e283	I can assure the representative Kosmo that we have the highest speed possible to get a new reindeer permit. But I also want to ask for an understanding that it is a very complicated legal work to make the Sami page division a legal framework for the exercise of the authority we need. It is ultimately about being able to hold a page responsible for an upper parity and be able to hold some responsible, possibly starting sanctions if necessary, etc. But it'll be working as fast as we can. I also stress that when it comes to getting down the reindeer, which is now happening to a significant degree – I remember that now it is being slaughtered more, and more effectively, than it has been done in 20 years, larger volumes, and that we will have a significant decrease in the reindeer compared to what we saw in figures, for example. per 1 % On 1 April last year, as far as I know now – we will continue to consider taking even clearer action. We have economic instruments that work, there are bonus schemes by leaving the industry – there are people who choose to do it too, and that's probably necessary. However, we should have in a relatively short time a framework and a law that will also allow for the imposition of the necessary coercive measures by implementing allowances, as all other resource-based primary industries actually have in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e288	I remember the Riksrevision's statement saying, ‘Due to international law and the ILO Convention, the Ministry of Agriculture shows that there are limited areas of action and opportunities for reindeer management instruments.’ ILO Convention No 169, where indigenous peoples are concerned, provide the nutritional basis for carrying out traditional industries, in this case the Sami industries. But it would be a bit paradoxical to use the ILO Convention as a justification for overgrazing, which in many ways would undermine the practice of nutrition over time. Does the Council of State feel that the ILO Convention is being prevented from ensuring the nutritional basis, in the sense that the number of animals is being reduced and that sustainable development is taking place over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e299	The representative Ballo travels a very interesting problem, which I have also reflected a lot around. Can international law give a people's group the right to wipe out their own livelihoods, so to speak? It is clear that it is our opinion that it is not possible, also because we are bound by other conventions, which are linked to biodiversity and the obligation to take care of the natural values. It is our opinion – and this has been a lot of time in the government apparatus in recent months – that our obligations under international law in this area are primarily linked to the fact that there are good processes involving the indigenous population itself. That's where we're obliged, and that's where we've also had a critical review of what we've done so far in the decision of the reindeer management board on upper reindeer, etc., whether there's been processes that have involved the indigenous population itself well enough. We mean we're lying hairy on the right side of the line. But it is that with what we know today, we would probably have spent even more time on the necessary democratic processes. Finally, however, the authorities must take a decision. And it never has to go out on nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e304	I fully agree with the Sponheim State Council when he says that if it is possible to have economically sustainable holdings, some of them have to leave the industry when the reindeer are to be reduced. And we can't facilitate that we get an industry that is not economically sustainable for those who work in that industry. But it is quite clear that it will then be a major challenge for state authorities to provide alternative employment for those who come out of industry through bonus schemes. Will the Council of State contribute to a comprehensive plan on how to deal with this issue? If not, we could risk that large parts of the Sami population currently connected to the reindeer industry will end up on permanent support schemes from the state, and that cannot be a desirable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e311	I fully agree with Mr Kosmo that this is one of the real challenges. It is such that we have programmes adopted in the Storting that enable reindeer operators today to quit the industry and get financial compensation for it. A good part is now reporting on that programme. The deadlines are about to expire for some of these instruments, and there are enough people in these days who are sitting and considering doing so. One important continuation of it is: what then? What does one do then, when one says that one sells pure and comes down from wide – and that in municipalities and areas that are struggling with excessive unemployment? There is also a background for the Government in the current year’s budget to have its own allocation to set up a resource centre, in order to use this reindeer management competence, this Sami competence, in other contexts. This money has now been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to see it in the context of the other whole programmes they have. And this is the main focus. I think it's important, in order to provide safety for those nutritionists who give themselves in the industry, that they know that they have a meaningful life where they use their real competence even after they stop reindeering.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e320	In addition to what the rapporteur has said, and similar to what the Minister for Agriculture and Food has said, it is necessary, for me, to address one problem by saying that there is too much pure in scope, and especially in West Finland, and that is the great discord between other industries and the reindeer industry. Among other things, we have problems in relation to sheep feeding. We also have problems with the urban population, not least in Hammerfest, where the reindeer come too close. What I'm asking is, do we imagine any other way that those problems can be solved than through jus? It's worrying to see, I think, when we're in Finnmark in different contexts, that big law firms have a lot of commercial income because there's so much conflict. I am aware that there are different types of rights, but my question is: does the Council of State see that we can tackle the problems that have arisen, with something other than jus?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e329	I think it's right to point out in that context – the representative Gaundal is of course quite right, and it also shows how complex these issues are – the threat to the reindeer industry feels that very much other activity needs to penetrate the areas that a very, very land-intensive and extensive industry like this one needs. There may also be one of the underlying explanations that many people have chosen to increase their purity, that is to say to raise the need for space. And then we're inside a vicious circle -- which we have a lot of. I think that there are important instruments in our legislation, but it must be a political will with regard to what you want with this legislation – the use of planning and building legislation by municipalities, for example. The government has now announced that this with wind farms and wind turbines will be seen in a context where one will also clarify where there will be room for reindeer operation and where there will be room for other activity, such as windmills. For the dangerous thing is the bit-by-bit policy where no one sees the whole. Then the reindeer industry always loses, and it is a political responsibility to ensure that it does not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e338	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e341	In 1965, the series ‘Norwegian mountain pastures’ gave a comprehensive overview of vegetation and grazing conditions for reindeer in Finnmark. Erling Liftingsmo was the leader and coordinator of that work. The main conclusions of Heftingsmo were that the low heaths in southern parts of the Finnmarks range were of great power early in the 1960s, with a thickness of between 10 and 15 cm. It was recorded ‘small reindeer tracks as ski tracks in the low mat’. The research company NORUT IT has published several reports on the grazing situation at Finnmarksvidda, among others. based on satellite data from 1973 to 1996. These reports are in stark contrast with the description of decimetre thickness layers with humid reinlav in the 1960s, for NORUT's research reports show that only 15 pst. of the reindeer pastures in Finnmark was heavily populated in 1973, was 42 pst. High bite and 50 pst. in 1996. The figures show that this evolution has just continued. At the rate at which grazing areas become degraded, most of the former grazing areas will no longer be used for reindeer farming in a few years. Figures from grazing areas outside Finnmark, such as the Trondelags and Hedmark, show that fewer animals give higher slaughter weight. Half as many animals per day. the area which, according to the figures in West Finland, could result in a double slaughter weight for each animal. This means that the industry will be able to employ as many people as it is today, even if the number of people in the industry is significantly reduced. Greater weight per person animals also cause fewer losses, since well-nourished animals will both be better off during winter and will not be easily attacked by predators. But this also means commitments that the industry has not wanted to infuse, in the form of far fewer animals for the largest holdings. When, for a few years, the reindeer industry in Finland has reported more than 50,000 lost animals, or about one third of the total number declared, it tells of a livestock that is in total ecological imbalance. Behind the figures, there is also an animal tragedy of difficult to grasp, with severe suffering for each animal, regardless of whether the losses are caused by emaciation, attacks from predators or a combination of both. It would be to start at a crazy end if the overbeet is to be solved as it has been partly solved, by shooting down as well as the yerves, globes, as well as the royal eagle population in Finnmark. It's no longer a wolf, either. It is also the case that the entire reindeer management system has stimulated production for losses and not for slaughter. By documenting high losses, you have also received high compensations, and in this way it has been a point to link up the losses you have had against robbery. It is therefore appropriate to organise a compensation scheme for losses and where the owners who take the best care of their animals are also those who are left with the greatest profit. The cleaners also represent a significant environmental problem at large. From 1992 until today, there are more than 700 km of reindeer built only in West Finland. NORUT has carried out an impact assessment showing that there was a significant and high level of ground wear around the existing fences. There are now about 200,000 pressurized fence posts around the perimeter. The poles are impregnated with copper, chromium and arsenic. It is so toxic that it is classified as special waste. The sticks are assumed to have a life span of approx. 50 years, but it keeps saying something down in the soil. I have mentioned the environmental and economic aspects of reindeer management. But there's also another side that you should pay attention to, and that's the social, related to the practitioners and their families. This year, when major losses have occurred, there have been significant consequences for Inner Finnmark, and the decline in industry has been dramatic. The failed nutritional basis has also resulted in social hardship for reindeer and their families, while the bonding with this Sami cultural carrier makes it difficult to break the traditions of the ancestors and find another outcome. In any case, if there is now an approximate normal year – based on the information I have received on the snow situation at large – and melting periods after which it freezes, you will be able to have new animal tragedy, there will be a number of animals dying. It is therefore absolutely necessary to initiate measures to bring the number of animals into line with that on which grazing is based. In many ways, there is a clear parallel between fisheries and reindeer management. Some have used the term ‘broad factory trawlers’ to refer to the largest nutritionists. And we saw in a Focus program last week how some smaller practitioners are displaced from their areas by the mixing of large flocks into these areas and flocks. When you look at the situation over many years, and the debates that have taken place in the Grand Duchy, you can see that the descriptions are quite similar from year to year, while the measures have been notified. It's obvious, just as in the fisheries, that you can't leave it to the industry to find the measures that have the effect. To that end, business interests will be too strong and the will to create sustainability too small. That is why it is increasingly in the direction of being willing to take drastic action to remedy the situation that exists, and it is good that such a clear majority in the United Kingdom is calling for it. However, there is also a significant lack of willingness in the industry, and an ability to close your eyes to the reality you are facing, which cannot lead the Norwegian authorities in implementing measures. You have to recognize the problems that are. They've evolved over 30 years. You can't sit still and watch that evolution just keeps going. And this means that action now needs to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e371	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1742]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e387	This issue concerns in isolation whether universities have established systems and procedures that can provide a degree of certainty that planned objectives and results can be achieved; there is no information in this regard as to the extent to which universities actually achieve the objectives set. Good systems and procedures are, of course, usually one of the prerequisites for achieving good results, but not necessarily a guarantee. From this point of view, this study is interesting, but for Stortinget it will probably be even more interesting later to get a case on how far you reach professional goals, and what the effect of e.g. Quality reform will be. It makes it kind of limited how much it is to subtract from this. So I have to be brief. The study shows that the internal governance documents centrally and at the faculties and institutions covered by the study do not adequately describe the objectives, requirements and expectations of the managers. It is very different how the responsibilities and powers of the managers are made clear in job descriptions, instructions and other formal documents, both between universities and within each institution. However, it is clear that there is an extensive practice of informal governance. It doesn't necessarily mean that there's bad control, but it can, of course, make it more difficult to document and control what works or not, and not least why it works or not. The exchange of experience is also becoming more difficult, which is one of the most important purposes of control, although we in this house are not always equally concerned with the exact purpose of our control activities. The Committee notes that the study has been conducted for a period of considerable conversion work and, in part, pressure on the quality reform of higher education. After all, it is limited how many administrative tasks those working in the field can do at once. Of course, that can explain some of the findings in the report, but not all. Therefore, the Committee shares the Ministry's view that the results of this conversion and the impact of the method of financing, of new main instructions on the financial management of the institutions in the university and higher education sectors, and of the fact that clear signals have now been given to the governments of each institution, will not be displayed until some time later. However, the Committee assumes that, in the further formal management dialogue with the enterprises, the Ministry will continue to ensure the necessary formalisation of the responsibilities and powers and the identification of instruments, and will properly inform the Storting about the impact of this work. But we are eagerly waiting for a study to be made into whether the objectives of the work are being achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1742]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e415	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1742]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e432	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e449	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e466	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e483	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e500	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e517	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e534	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e551	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Knut Storberget, on behalf of the President-in-Office, Gunn Karin Gjul, who is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e560	On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council – and to the extent that the majority of the Committee – I will briefly present this matter. First of all, I think there is reason to welcome this type of proposal and this kind of initiative that Simonsen's representative has promoted in Stortinget, warmly welcomed, first and foremost, because we have had an increasing focus on the situation of victims of criminal acts, not only abroad, but also here in the country. There is reason to say that for the future, many of us politicians will also see the need to improve the situation of the offended. However, this is a debate that the Stortinget will be able to take in its entirety when once the Ministry of Justice and the authorities responsible for dealing with the suspension of the Committee of Inquiry come up with their proposals regarding the situation of victims of criminal acts and how to actually strengthen their legal certainty. I just want to say briefly that there may be three issues in which the aid lawyer can play an important role for those who are exposed to crime, not only abroad, but also here in Norway. This is primarily in terms of the need for information. There are also issues of communication with those involved in criminal matters, and not least in general, of getting support from a public actor in addition to what is needed to be supported elsewhere. I'm saying this because it can actually also contribute to that you don't necessarily go into a situation where you give them insulted maybe more burden by, among other things. giving them more responsibility for the process. So at least it's our opinion that it's important that the role of aid lawyers is taken care of. It is perhaps where the growth in the bet relative to victims of criminal acts should come, that victims of criminal acts do not necessarily give pure party interests, which may make the process even tougher. I say this and I'm so in-depth about what an aid lawyer can actually do, because we're facing a criminal law that's just become more and more demanding for the offended. You have received several steps to try the issues in. We know that the media are pushing harder even in relation to the offended. Then we also know that there are widespread demands from many that the offended should participate more actively as parties to criminal proceedings, which is not always the simplest solution for those who have been subjected to a serious criminal act. I believe that, in this context, the majority of the Committee considers that this is so important that it should be seen in a broader context than that which this proposal actually provides. This should perhaps also be seen in the light of the question of not only the pure aid law system, but also the kind of compensation that is actually available when you are exposed to criminal acts abroad. This should also be considered in the context of the problems raised in relation to the extra costs incurred by victims of criminal acts and relatives, by the fact that the criminal act has actually occurred abroad and will involve State and public support and efforts beyond the pure aid lawyer system. Therefore, it is important, in the majority's view, that this should be seen in the context and that a request should not now be adopted which actually limits the question of assistance and assistance to the national, as the proposer does. It is possible that one should go further, at least it is a challenge that we from the Workers' Party believe is obvious. That is why we believe that this should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e575	I will also start by giving the proposer a credit for a good initiative. I think it can be said that it is the different social support systems in a society and how to take into account the citizens of the same society, which reflects the quality of it. And so I think it is absolutely a good proposal. I represent the minority in this case, and would briefly say something about why I think it should be such a scheme. I believe that one of the worst things that can happen to a person who has been subjected to a criminal act is to stand on a bare ground, without support, without anyone to assist himself, perhaps in a completely different country, with a completely different culture and completely different rules of life. I think that too many people can experience it as terribly difficult. It is likely that the support is linked to the Norwegian passport, that it is confident that the Norwegian system, that the Norwegian society will take care of it, support it and help it in a difficult situation. It's probably a pity that some people find out that the hopes you had actually don't work, and that you feel quite alone at a time when you actually need the most help and support possible. This is about creating a safety net, and a signal about how to take care of people who are exposed to this kind of criminal act. As the representative of Storberget was in the city: you have to see this in a larger width and see more fully in it. At the same time, however, it is a paradox that the Justice Committee has shown some force in the past, for example. in the case of an assistant lawyer in forced marriage cases, which is a sort of parallel case. The Judicial Committee then took action and put this into practice fairly quickly. So the Storting can when the Storing will. At least that's my assessment of this. So in this case, the majority wants to wait, while the minority, which is essentially composed of the Progress Party and the SV, wants to promote a proposal. As I said, the aim must be to help those in need of help in given situations, while, of course, taking into account local criminal proceedings. Nor can the Norwegian authorities help to overrun the local area, but the point must be to keep the focus on those who need help and to get the necessary help. What needs to be a continuous focus is simply that we guarantee our own citizens legal certainty wherever they are. That's what you feel like a member of the society that the United Nations calls the world's best country to live in. So I think, unfortunately, that's how someone feels that it's a truth with great modifications. I also believe that the costs, if you were to introduce such a scheme, would be minimal, and I think the Storting should have done so. I think this is defensive, and I think it again is too pending. With this, I'm addressing the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e592	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e595	This proposal, we see in SV, is extremely important. It is good that the representative Jan Simonsen can still contribute constructively in Stortinget and promote a proposal of this kind. We're not always as satisfied with what comes from that edge, but at least this proposal is good. We think it's a pity that we don't get a majority for it in our committee, and that it's only the Progress Party and SV who are making themselves clear here on the side of insulted. There have been issues in the media that show that there is a clear need for assistance of the kind we are asking for here. We believe that there is no reason to wait for the Pronouncement Committee, but that an initiative by the Government to change the legislation already needs to be taken. We have seen that Norwegian citizens, who are responsible for the Norwegian State, have received inadequate help because the criminal offence to which they were subjected occurred abroad. Among other things, there was a rape case that was mentioned as being quite ugly, where the question of her income came up, because this is linked to the free legal aid scheme, and in this sense there is a discretionary decision that is to be taken. This means that in some cases her case will be considered in Norwegian bodies, while the case to the offended one actually goes abroad. We believe that is an entirely unsustainable situation. We believe that the Criminal Procedures Act should provide for the appointment of Norwegian aid lawyer if the legal system of each country does not already grant the victim legal aid equivalent to the Norwegian system. This must apply as far as practicable within the legal system of each country. I would also like to remind you that this question has actually been raised earlier in Stortinget, then by the representative Carsten Dybevig from the Right, who was then inside as an alternate of Ingjerd Schou from the Right. He asked questions in the Questionnaire on 8 May 2002 and was informed that the number of complaints on the current system is a handful. In other words, the price of introducing such a change as we're talking about here will be low. But for the few people involved, it will have enormous significance. I guess there were also other representatives who spoke in the media about this happening. It might be easier to express yourself in the media than actually to do something about it when the proposal is presented. That is why I am pleased that the SV and the Progress Party are united on this proposal, and I think it is a pity that it falls. I hope that doesn't mean that it's now added aside, or that you don't want to treat this properly seriously. I know it's going to be considered in the Committee on Prosecution, but I also hope that the Government at Dørum can take this up and make sure that in the meantime, for example. would come up with a case concerning a Norwegian citizen who has been exposed to serious things abroad, throwing himself around and making sure that he/she will receive the necessary help.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e608	I am pleased that the majority of the committee shares the ministry's view of waiting for the Committee to assess the geographical scope of the aid lawyer, and can join me in many of the reflections that the representative Storberget did on that occasion. In the case of the aid lawyer scheme, it is linked to the Criminal Procedures Act, which regulates the proceedings in criminal cases that are being committed and dealt with in Norway. Some acts against Norwegian nationals abroad may be punishable by Norwegian courts. In these cases, Norwegian citizens who are subject to criminal offences abroad will have the same rights as if the action had taken place in Norway. Persons who do not reside in Norway or are Norwegian nationals will also have the rights conferred by the Criminal Procedures Act if the case is dealt with in Norway. The right to a lawyer and other procedural rights will also follow the rules of the country in which the case is brought before the courts. Several countries have similar arrangements with the Deputy Advocate for Injured Persons in Criminal Matters, which will also benefit Norwegian citizens who are subject to criminal offences in these countries. In those cases where a case is brought before foreign courts, the local lawyers will have the best conditions to protect the rights of the offended person, since it is the local lawyers who know best the country's legal rules and its language and culture. There will therefore not normally be a need for Norwegian legal assistance in such cases. However, as others have pointed out, it is not all countries that have the same arrangements for legal aid for offended persons as Norway. In these cases, there may be a need for additional assistance from a Norwegian lawyer, within the framework of procedural law in the country concerned. The tasks which a Norwegian lawyer may perform in a country which does not grant procedural rights or grants only limited rights to the offended person or his lawyer may be limited. These are aspects that will have an impact on the effectiveness of legal assistance, but which Norwegian authorities can have little influence. Nevertheless, there is a need, and many have pointed out it, to assess whether and how Norwegian citizens who are subject to criminal offences abroad can be entitled to Norwegian legal aid and what tasks such a lawyer should have. This need has already been addressed by the fact that the issue of the geographical extension of the aid lawyer scheme is included in the mandate of the Conciliation Committee. In this way, it is ensured that the scope of the aid lawyer scheme is seen in conjunction with other relevant amendments. The selection must be free in its choice of solutions in this area, but I will ensure that the sample is made familiar with the Stortinge treatment of Document No. 8:23 for 2004-2005. Once the sample has submitted its investigation, I will appropriately come back with an evaluation of the sample proposal. So to the present situation, like, among other things. The representative of Thorkildsen was inside. Waiting for the Committee to deal with the issue does not mean, however, that victims of serious criminal offences committed abroad will not be able to get help in the meantime. In the specific case, financial support for legal aid could be granted under the Legal Aid Act. The decision will depend on the need for free legal assistance in each case. Until the questions of principle are clarified, such a concrete assessment in each case is considered to cover most of the need for assistance in such cases. There have been cases abroad where this possibility has just been used, and where it has been right to do so. So for those who have been subjected to serious abuse, and where there has not been – we should say – good enough legal support in the country in question, this discretion that is here has been used. I can confirm that I want an alert eye to do so in the situations that might arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e625	Norwegian citizens exposed to serious crime abroad shall be well cared for. Regardless of where the crime has been committed, victims should be informed of the progress of police investigations and given assistance during judicial proceedings in criminal matters. This is important in order to minimise the repercussions of criminal activity. On this basis, I would like to commend the representative Simonsen for promoting a Document No. 8 proposals focusing on the legal certainty of those exposed to crime abroad. In most cases, Norwegian citizens who are offended in criminal proceedings before foreign courts have the same right to legal aid as nationals of the country. Several reasons argue that such a solution is in the best interest of the victims. First, local lawyers know the country's legal rules best. Second, they master the language and know the culture. And thirdly, a lawyer from Norway could also be prevented by local legislation that limits what tasks he or she can perform in the case. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to claim that it is often in the Norwegian Party's interest to use a local lawyer. But I have a lot of understanding that this isn't always the case. When the local aid system is poor, or not as good as the Norwegian, it is easy to understand that the person who has been subjected to serious crime does not feel well enough. However, an amendment to the legislation raises fundamental issues that need to be carefully considered. For example, it is necessary to assess which offences are to give the Norwegian lawyer the right to assistance when the criminal case is handled abroad and the tasks for which it is to be covered. The Christian People's Party believes that these issues are so fundamental that they should be assessed by the Committee of Inquiry, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has included the issue in the committee's mandate. I would like to conclude by reminding you that the Legal Aid Act today provides the opportunity to cover expenses to a lawyer in cases where there is no aid law in the country where the criminal act has been committed. It will also be possible to cover travel and subsistence expenses relating to hearings and legal proceedings abroad. But again, the Christian People's Party will consider strengthening the rights of those who have been subjected to serious crime abroad. I am also pleased with what the Minister of Justice just said in response to the representative of Thorkildsen, namely that, where such a case should be brought up until the Committee's suspension is available and decisions have been taken to extend it, however, assistance and assistance will be provided. However, we will await from the Christian People's Party the investigation and concrete recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry before finalising what concrete measures should be implemented. So it's not an expression that we're opposed to the proposal that's being voted down today, but it's because we want to get a more thorough review of this before we take the final position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e646	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e649	I am, of course, well pleased with the proposal promoted by the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. But I also agree with the representative Ellingen that it is a little sad that the majority could not now decide to adopt this, so that a clearer signal could be given to the bodies that are currently dealing with applications for an aid lawyer. I'd rather be concerned that the majority, after all, writes the following in their comments: ‘The majority are aware that the Conciliation Committee has been given a mandate to assess whether the Norwegian aid lawyer system should also cover some cases where Norwegian citizens are exposed to serious crimes abroad. The majority will await this work, but will already signal that there is a need for insulting in the most serious criminal cases to be given the opportunity to provide legal assistance in matters dealt with by foreign courts.’ This, together with Mr Storberget's contribution, tells me that there is actually a unanimous agreement in the Stortinget to re-close the hole in the aid lawyer's system. I am raising this case because a Norwegian woman who had been raped in a holiday paradise along the Mediterranean Sea was offered an assistant lawyer from the country where this crime happened, but the assistant lawyer spoke neither Norwegian nor English. And the woman did not speak the same language as he did. So they couldn't talk. There is not much assistance in an aid lawyer that you cannot communicate with. My assumption is that once you have chosen to wait for this sample, it must not lead to people in the same situation as this woman being denied their applications on the grounds that the law does not yet allow to say yes to the applications because you are waiting for a sample to finish their work, when you know that this sample will go in order for such applications to be granted. No one has to get into such a situation. For this reason, my recommendation and my assumption are that the public authorities that are to deal with applications for assistance lawyers abroad demonstrate flexibility and not only take into account whether or not the country in which the crime is committed is offering an aid lawyer itself, but also whether or not this aid lawyer is at all helpful. So this lawyer must be able to talk to him in some common language, otherwise it has no purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e665	I am both disappointed and a little worried when I am, among other things. hear the article from the Christian People's Party. Based on the post that Marthinsen made, it would be thought that it would almost not be necessary to assess this in the Prodigal Committee. It seemed like everything was very well. This proposal has been promoted because we have seen a need. There has been a concrete need for specific people to receive assistance. If, for example: The woman Simonsen referred to had been satisfied, this would not have been a problem at all. But it's just this thing with languages, for example, this with understanding, this that you're in a state of shock, that makes you need extra help and follow-up. That's the thing. In addition, I believe that it is not good enough to assess free legal aid here, because it is linked to an income, and most of the victims in this situation will also be in economic trouble, in economic hardship. This was the case in a specific case. Then I think this is just going to push it – explain a little bit – instead of grasping what actually turns out to be a need in real life. One should then try to get something done about it – and not point out what kind of theoretical assessment is about how to do this, when it turns out that it actually doesn't work in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e675	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1744]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e691	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e698	Let me begin by expressing recognition to the representatives of May Hansen and Inga Marte Thorkildsen for promoting the proposal we are now discussing. In the last 10–15 years, action has been taken on several occasions to strengthen the position of children who have been subjected to abuse. Legislation has improved. The competence of the auxiliary apparatus has been increased. Police investigation is better organised. Administrative cooperation is strengthened in issues related to child abuse. But everything's not very well. Even during the 2000 throne debate, I suggested that a so - called Barnecryptus be established. The proposal was accepted by all parties except the Workers' Party. However, we know that the system of judicial hearings and observation of children is not working properly. We also know that New Kripos’s work on child abuse does not provide the necessary top expertise in all police districts in investigating child abuse cases. Therefore, there is still a need to strengthen the legal certainty of children in Norway. In particular, it is necessary to provide for children who have been subjected to sexual assault and/or violence. The Government Parties and the Advance Party therefore agreed during the budget negotiations last autumn to ask the Government to evaluate a pilot project in Norway, similar to Barnahus in Iceland. We also asked the Government to consider alternative measures that could strengthen the legal position of children who have been abused or who have witnessed abuses against others. The government will come back to this already in the revised budget for 2005, and I am very pleased about that. Patience is no virtue in matters relating to children’s rights. I myself have been to Iceland and visited Barnahus. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I can say that we believe there is a need to launch a pilot project similar to this centre in Norway. Children's home in Iceland is a competence centre for the questioning, treatment and follow-up of children who have been sexually assaulted. I believe that a similar site in Norway should also provide assistance to children who have been subjected to violence and/or who have witnessed abuse committed against others. The main objective of a Centre of Competence or a Barnas House in Norway should not be criminal in nature. The need for protection of children should be the overall objective. This means that the employees of a Barna’s House must focus in particular on the follow-up of children who say that they have been sexually assaulted and/or violent, or who have witnessed abuse. A Norwegian Barnes House must have employees who have special competence in treating children who have been subjected to abuse. It is important that the house is linked to medical competence and that medical examinations of the child can be carried out at Barna’s House. It is a goal that the child shall receive all necessary follow-up at one and the same place. Good cooperation between Barna’s House, the health services, police and prosecution authorities, courts and child protection is absolutely necessary – and crucial – for the legal security and security of each child. The Committee considers it appropriate to involve the Ministry of Children and Family in the work on Barnas Hus. The Ministry of Health and Welfare must also be involved in the work. We believe it is important that good administrative cooperation for the best interests of children is anchored at departmental level. In addition, an overall committee states in its opinion that ‘it would be appropriate to establish the house in an area which does not differ widely from an average housing area’, because we want ‘to prevent children from becoming unnecessarily anxious on arrival’. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party go a little further than the government parties and the Progress Party in laying the detailed leadership for the government's follow-up work on this matter. However, there is no disagreement within the Judicial Committee as to the need for action to strengthen the legal position of children who have been subjected to abuse. There is a need to give these children better protection, and so the government will come back to the matter in the revised budget this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e731	It is a bad and difficult truth that some children are exposed to, or are witnesses to, violence and abuse. The fact that they are children, and that we prefer to bring forth a bad truth as gentle as possible, makes the interrogation situation extremely difficult for the children and their relatives. This makes great demands on those who are to conduct the hearings. Some have been done in this field in recent years. But we haven't found the optimal solution yet. What we have to do is that the children are protected, that their legal certainty is safeguarded, while the truth comes for a day. In Westfold we have an incest centre that has night shifts, despite the fact that the Ministry of Children and Family has said that the centres should not really be open 24 hours a day. To this center came one night a group of siblings from the West, haiking with a trailer to the east. They couldn't do any more assaults. They had read that this centre in Westfold had night shifts in place to take care of those who are unable to live with their evil experiences when darkness says on. It's awfully bad to hear such stories from reality, but it's the reality of the day. We have to try to do something with that. I understand that they at the center say that they can't stay closed at night, despite what the department says, because it's often at night life is the hardest for them. We believe that there is a need for a Barnas House as soon as possible – a place where there is competence for medical treatment, proper care and opportunities to process the experiences, where they can be followed up by the professionals with whom they have already become acquainted, but also a place where investigations, interrogations, investigations and observations can be made in one place. Then the children do not travel from one more unsafe place to another to experience even more difficult and unpleasant situations. It is important that professionals cooperate across the board, train the abused child and learn from each other, so that it is easier to find the right perpetrators or perpetrators and to provide the rightful evidence to which the court can relate, and that there is a place that is also allowed to have night shifts. All of this can be fulfilled in a Barna's House, we hope and believe. In such a house, investigators, state lawyers, assistant lawyers, medical personnel and care professionals can come together in one arena. This is more effective, and skilled professionals working together may be able to bring forth a bad truth faster and more gentle than is now the case. The children concerned may be helped to process what they have experienced, have a place to get to and be followed up properly. Parents can have a place to get help, good advice and guidance, and not like today, that they feel completely alone with late effects and problems they don't know how to deal properly with the child's best. Now it is essential that the Government does not interfere. It must act effectively and initiate this as soon as possible, for the benefit of the children whom we know to be exposed or who have witnessed violence and abuse, and who are severely hurt in today's Norway. Finally, I address the minority proposals from SV and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e748	The representative Anne Helen Rui has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e751	The right and government parties support the intentions of the Socialist Left proposal. Children are in a particularly vulnerable position, whether they are victims of or testify to a criminal act. In the last 10–15 years, a number of measures have been put in place to strengthen the legal certainty of children in such situations. Increased attention and focus on this has been important. However, it is absolutely necessary to be open to find new solutions. Looking beyond borders to learn from how to meet a challenge elsewhere can be instructive. In Iceland, Barnahus has been established to develop a multidisciplinary, developmental and culturally adapted approach to child abuse. Barnahus provides the child with a safe environment for questioning, continuity during follow-up, follow-up of health professionals and help to coordinate the assistance of different services. Guidance is also provided to the child’s closest. In the budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Progress Party last autumn, it was agreed to consider the establishment of a pilot project in Norway corresponding to Barnahus in Iceland. The government was asked to return to this as soon as possible, and then in the revised budget for 2005. The purpose of Barna's House is twofold. By a good and professional approach to the child, interrogations are improved. This may help to ensure that several offenders can be held responsible for their actions. Furthermore, the work of the bodies means that the child is given a better follow-up. There is also reason to believe that this helps the child to put the assault behind him and move on. Each child must be treated individually. Each situation also suggests a wise assessment of the competences needed and to be adapted to the inter-disciplinary cooperation thereafter – there is cooperation between the House of Children, the health services, the specialist health services, the police and prosecution authorities, courts and child protection and, in particular, the relevant guardians whom the child has confidence in. The main purpose of the House of Barna's shall not be criminal in nature. The protection needs of children shall be the overall objective. This implies that Barna’s House must focus in particular on the follow-up of children who say that they have been sexually assaulted and/or have been subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e768	In this case, too, it is quite appropriate to give honor to the proposers, who take up a very important subject. I think this field is a challenge for many of us, because when children are going to describe things they have been exposed to, it's about how we, as individuals, are affected by it. This is why it is very important to have a high-quality device that takes care of this. In addition, it's probably also that part of our black story in this context is the Bjugn case, which shows that things that seem to look good, not necessarily that. It only shows the challenge of dealing with and dealing with these kinds of issues in a manner that is sound and good for all those involved. Because if you make a mistake here, you won't just get one victim. You'll be able to get more victims. Therefore, it is important to focus on the qualitative overarching. I think that if you're going to succeed, you're going to have to take advantage of the knowledge, knowledge and re-knowledge of professionals who know about it and who have experience, who can be involved in making good models of how to do this. In this proposal, there is also a very clear reference to Barnahus in Iceland and to whether we are going to make a Norwegian version of it. I think we have an obligation to do that, precisely to ensure that children who may have been subjected to abuse are able to come up with their message in a way that makes the child appear credible in relation to laying the basis for any criminal action, and in order to safeguard the experiences that the children have experienced. In other words, it will be the quality of what the individual stands for, which, together with the child, will be crucial. It's interesting, though, that there's some nuances in relation to the progress here. The working party and SV want to fix it now. We in the Progress Party take the responsibility that we have taken, as part of the budget agreement, and say that we must look at this when we come to the revision. At the same time, I'm going to be so direct and – at least for my own part – pre-shooting it as to say that this is going to be very important for our part. So if you have a society that doesn't respect children's rights, you're probably saying something about the quality of that society. Then, of course, someone can say that then I will meet myself at the door, since I have not confirmed it. I believe that what has now happened, that some members of the Committee have been in Iceland and learned and seen, received input, makes you stand even better equipped to take the full debate when the Government returns to the Stortinget with a follow-up to this. Although I as a member of the Advance Party may think that the Storting hasten a little slowly sometimes, it is possible that it makes sense, although it may be unpleasant to admit it. That is why, as I said, we have accepted that we should come back to this and look at it, and then we hope – and we assume, of course – that the Council of State will carefully and deliberately focus on it, and that quality assurances will be made from Iceland and that they will be directly transferable to Norway, or that we will have to make some special arrangements. The worst thing that can happen is that we get issues where children again won't be believed, especially if it's because there was a lack of professional competence. There will be a betrayal of the children involved, and there will also be a lack of judgement and a lack of interaction between the different professional environments that have to do the job here. So it's the way that we measure the quality of what we stand for, and if we don't have the ability to take care of the weakest of the weakest in society, here represented by children, we fail as an institution, and we fail as fellow humans. That's why it's important to focus closely on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e783	I am proud to be co-sponsored with May Hansen for the proposal to set up a Barnas House in Norway, a house where children who have been, or perhaps have been, sexually assaulted or violence, can come and get all the help they have the right to, in one place. It's high time that in this situation, children don't have to deal with a bunch of strangers, tell different adults about the most shameful and offensive. It is time that the children could get help and treatment quickly when the unimaginable has actually happened. I would like to say that I actually disagree with the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen when he says that much has improved in Norway. I believe that much has not improved. Almost no one is convicted of sexual abuse against children. Incest centres are at high risk of being put down or closed. In many places in this country, we don't have incest centers. The children must be in long queues for treatment. There is no green, 24-hour telephone line paid by the state here, nor is there a good competence for assault issues in all the joints that come into contact with the children. It made a strong impression to look closely at how Barnahus in Iceland works in practice. Together with, among others: Christian People's Party, Redd Barna, the Incest Center in Oslo and the Stine Sofies Foundation gave us an insight into how to deal with such matters in a far more professional way than what we do in Norway. I am not in any doubt for a moment that this model is a major step forward for children in Iceland, and I am not in any doubt that it can represent a major step forward for children in Norway. There is no doubt about it either, and therefore they have recommended us to set up a pilot project with the House of Barnas. I would very much like a clear answer today as to whether it is the Government's plan to establish a Barnas House in Norway, or whether you are still in doubt, since you have doubts about the word 'if any' in the vote. I would also like to know whether you are thinking of a model of questioning of the type you have chosen in Iceland, where the hearing becomes part of the main debate, with the possibility of television transmission directly to the courtroom, where judges and lawyers can ask questions via a competent and pedagogical interrogator at Barna's House. In this way one can also prevent any suspect from being near the child during the court hearing, on the other side of a mirror window, as it works today, which many children see as very difficult, natural enough. SV believes it is important that those affected, directly or indirectly, by a Barnas House, be involved in planning, so that this does not frustrate disagreement, uncertainty and professional struggle. That is why we are also promoting a proposal on this. Can the Council of State comment on this is something he will take seriously if he decides to go for a Barnas House in Norway? Will the Council of State ensure that they are involved in a process, so that we can clarify the organisation in good time if you want to establish a Barnas House, so that you can prevent disagreements and professional struggles from making this a potentially worse offer than it could be? At the end of the day, I would like to say to Mr Marthinsen that I think he has done a very serious job on this matter. The fact that, among other things, was postponed so that we could travel to Iceland and look at this, was very good. We appreciate that very much from the SV side. However, I think it is strange that we could not make it clearer that a pilot project should be set up with Barnas Hus in Norway, all the time the representative Marthinsen has gone extremely high on the ground in this case and wrote a reader’s letter in both the Newspaper and the evening post that SV only talks, while the Christian People’s Party – they do something. Then to him I will say, Prove it!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e799	The Ministry of Justice and the Administration of the Court of Justice appointed a working group in April 2003 to evaluate the system of child interrogation and observation. The evaluation report was submitted in May 2004 and was sent to relevant organisations and bodies at consultation. The consultation period expired on 15 February 2005, and the Ministry is now working on the follow-up to the report’s recommendations in the light of the replies to the hearing. The working group pointed out, among other things: that the question of the participation of judges in judicial hearings should be examined further. The working group also considered that the system of observation introduced in 1998 did not seem to have been a success overall and that the system provided for obvious possibilities for misinformation. The scheme should be reviewed in the light of the opinion of the working group. The working group also noted the need for increased skills at several levels. The participation of the judges in the hearing and observation will, in the opinion of the working group, require further training in this area. There is also a clear need for training in the case of psychologists and paediatric psychiatrists conducting observations. The working group also mentioned the questioning system for children in Sweden and Barnahus in Iceland in the report and recommended that these schemes be further assessed. I find the model you have in Barnahus in Reykjavik, interesting, and that's why I visited Barnahus in Reykjavik in June 2004 to learn about the business you run there. I will come back to the revised national budget for 2005 for a detailed assessment of the testing of a new interrogation model and, if necessary, a more concrete approach to possible changes to the scheme, as requested by the Stortinget. Inner. S. No 123 for 2004-2005. In the last 10 to 15 years, measures have been successively taken to strengthen the position of children who are being abused. This concerns both better regulation, the enhancement of the skills of personnel working on such matters, better organisation of research into such matters and better cooperation between professionals working on such matters. There is reason to point out that at the Police College, further training courses have been developed so that police officers dealing specifically with child abuse can specialise. To a large extent, the judges allow themselves to be assisted by police officers in questioning children. In the autumn of 2003, the Social and Health Directorate, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, published ‘Sexual abuse against children. An auxiliary counsellor’ to strengthen the work on child abuse and improve cooperation between the professional groups working on such issues. I can also inform you that the Government is now working on the completion of a new strategy plan on action against physical and sexual abuse of children. The plan is expected to be in place during the first six months of 2005. In my opinion, it may be most appropriate and necessary to see the issue of setting up a pilot project with Barnas Hus in Norway in the context of the rules and arrangements already in place in this country, adapted to the Norwegian system and the resources available to us, so that the legal certainty and protection of children can be ensured in the best possible way in a vulnerable hearing situation. Iceland is a much smaller country than Norway. We must also take this into account when looking at how such a model of interrogation can be adapted to Norwegian circumstances. I think, among other things, long journeys for children to be interrogated will be detrimental. In any case, I believe that it is necessary to look at what opportunities we have to fit in with a hearing model and a pilot, like Barna's House, in a process where all relevant bodies participate in order to strengthen administrative cooperation in criminal matters. In other words, the child is at the centre, and the professionals, no matter what they represent — whether at the health, treatment or legal level — get to grips with it. I will come back to this practical work and put it into practice in the revised national budget, in accordance with the wishes of Storting. It goes without saying that with the references made here to work in other departments, it is natural to do this work in close contact with other departments. On the fundamental question from the representative of Thorkildsen, if professional interests are to stop this, it should at least be so that as far as it stands for me, it should not be so. Even state councils can be stopped by professionals, but I think that in this area, also in our country, we are in a situation where many people listen to, think and work in a completely different way. When you find the people who are willing to listen and to work together in another way, you also find the solutions. It's a form of work I'm familiar with in a number of areas, and it's a form of work that also inspires me in this area. It is no coincidence that I visited Barnahus in Reykjavik. I just did it to see a practical expression for another way of working than what we've done now. I also did this to see a situation where the child to the degrees is put in focus, where the professionals had to deal with the child, and the child was not sent as a parcel post from one subject group to the other. What I experienced made a strong and positive impression on me. For me, it is a pretty strong ballast when I work on this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e822	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e828	Having heard the case rapporteur present the majority's motion for a position on this matter and with the clear leaders given by the Minister of Justice, I have to say that I think it should be possible to get the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals, both to ask for a working group to be set up, and also to get back to the matter in the revised national budget. I've hurt to see the gap now, in relation to the political. So I would like to encourage the government parties and the Progress Party to contribute to bringing together both process and content in such an important matter. That being said, I would like, in the case of the case itself, to give some consideration to the problem area that we are facing here. It's none of the political parties, I assume, who go into such a matter and such a challenge and think that these are simple tasks to solve. Children's testimonies as evidence in criminal matters may be one of the most difficult evidence the Norwegian court can handle. They are difficult to obtain, difficult to assess, and it is difficult to draw any conclusion out of the weight of evidence, etc. I think it's important to establish units – Barna's House or what you have to call it – that will help make this process easier, that you don't create a new polarization, where legal certainty for the intended and potentially accused is put up against the legal security of the child. I think it's crucial that you just see that there are two parts of the same challenge. If you can raise legal certainty for the person who is actually accused of very serious crimes, it will also benefit the child. Some of the worst things that can happen to a child must be being subjected to a method of questioning that helps to get involved in a process that you may have to distance yourself from 10 to 15 years later and that you see has caused a lot of damage. It also does not help to facilitate any treatment. Here we are actually talking about legal certainty that will benefit the children, but of course it will also benefit those who are being charged with very serious criminal offences. It is my hope that such a Barna's House can help to increase such an understanding. The other thing that's very important about this, and as I've seen during my visit to Barnahus in Reykjavik, is that you help lower the burden of proof with regard to the child's need for help. It's a cross of thought. Perhaps we have too much focussed on criminal law instruments when we're going to meet children in relation to this type of problem, and have actually used unconsciously, perhaps sometimes also deliberately, the same evidence requirements in providing help to the child. That's not the point at all. It should, of course, be such that all possible doubts should benefit the child in the matter of receiving help. I just wanted to say this, and would also encourage the other parties in the hall to support the Workers' Party and SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e839	It is with some concern that I hear the debate, also because the Council of State here is talking about a new model of interrogation and is talking about a consequence of it, while what we are asking for is more than a model of interrogation. There is one house where all the professionals, wherever they belong in the landscape, will contribute around the child. They shall come to the child, so that the child does not travel from place to place. It's also important, so that we can establish proper cooperation across these floors. The government has been very concerned with administrative cooperation, and then this is a shining example of how it can be done. In addition, the child should also be able to receive treatment at Barna’s House, and it should be possible to do so quickly. There shall be a place of expertise to be used to disseminate knowledge of sexual abuse, where necessary. And that's what's needed. That's why I'm a little worried and I wonder if the Council of State can decide if it's in the paths that the Government is now thinking, that this should only be a new interrogation model. I also agree with what Mr Storberget said that in many ways, at least on the basis of what Finn Kristian Marthinsen has said, one should think that one could have voted in favour of these proposals now. But I fear that one of the reasons why you don't want to do that is to consider a more subtle measure than what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e848	I think it's important that we don't let this become a discussion about terms. But I want to comment on two things. One thing goes on what the representative Thorkildsen said just now. After all, there is no concealment that in the title of this document there is a proposal from the representatives of Hansen and Thorkildsen ‘to introduce a new model of child questioning’. That's what the title actually says. But at the bottom of the text, there's something else. I don't think we're going to get involved in this, because I think there's a cross-political consensus that what we're going to focus on is the concern of the children. That's what this is about. That's not the point of law. That's not what's in focus. It is that children should be taken seriously, feel taken seriously and experience that adults believe in them. That's what's a big deal. But then the representative Thorkildsen said in response to me that she wondered why we doubt the word ‘if any’ in this setting. It's pretty easy to explain. We entered into an agreement with the Progress Party, and in the agreement, which is in the budgetary position with regard to the Ministry of Justice, it says: ‘The majority are asked by the Ministry to consider establishing a pilot project in Norway corresponding to Barnas Hus on Iceland.’ That is a conclusion to what is at the forefront of the agreement. ‘The majority also ask the Ministry to consider other alternative measures that could strengthen the legal position of children who have been subjected to abuse or who have witnessed abuses against others and facilitate the treatment of the negative experiences.’ [[1]] [[2]] And then we end up with: ‘The majority ask the Ministry to come back to this in an appropriate manner as soon as possible.’ That doesn't mean we're saying that it can't be a Barna's House, but we're saying that if that's the best thing to do in our assessments, we want this to be established as a pilot project. But if you come up with something even better, if you have to find out something like that in your wisdom and your wisdom, we want it to be done, because the purpose is that now we have to establish what is the best, the very best. There I think we agree, and then I don't think we should go too far on a few words. Let's focus on the main content here and agree that it's the best thing for children we want today to make a decision for the benefit of. We want the Council of State to come back to this in revision, with the best proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e875	In this case of a new interrogation model and in the previous case of an aid lawyer for those who are exposed to criminal acts abroad, I have to say that I am somewhat surprised at the statements made by the representative of the Socialist Left Party. Here we have two things, this case too, where there is a cross-political consensus on the seriousness of the fact that children are not well cared for when it comes to questioning, and we are looking for new interrogation models. Now it was the statement of the representative of Thorkildsen, by reference to the representative of Marthinsen, that there was only pretense and no action, which made me take the floor. As far as I can see, neither is the new model of interrogation, possibly Barna's House, prioritised by the Socialist Left Party in the 2005 budget, nor in the previous case when it comes to spending money on aid lawyers for people who are exposed to criminal acts abroad. There is, of course, something to do with budget management in the budgetary procedure. To establish new interrogation models and to establish Barna's House, which I think is wise things to assess, and which I am concerned about getting a better solution, will cost money. But it has always been that the Socialist Left Party gets the money quickly and efficiently, and takes the budgetary procedure on a case-by-case basis. In this way, there will be a jump and jump situation both in this case and in the previous case. In the case of the previous case, it may be wise to take the treatment and have it assessed and completed together with the Conciliation Committee. So while all the parties in the hall have said that this is a trick, and that this is wise, the government parties choose to include it in the process that's been put into it. And none of the processes will take a long time. The intention both in the previous case and in this case is to make the situation better for children – for those who have been subjected to sexual abuse, which is a situation I have some experience with, and for those who have been subjected to criminal acts abroad. I needed to say this in relation to ‘just preique’, which I think I will return, even though I think that such a serious matter as the one we are dealing with is actually not worthy of that type of language.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e884	As I said yesterday in another matter, I grew up learning Luther's catechism. There it says in the explanation of an article that one should talk well about his next and take everything that almost says, in the best sense. I also choose to do that in this debate, regardless of the form of expression and the pressure on Norwegian words. I see that anyone who has spoken in this debate will be treated in a much better way than what we now have. So it is that when I am the Council of State – and we have had a job to look at how this has happened until now, we have had a consultation period that expired on 15 February – I have to deal with it. That doesn't mean I won't have more thoughts in my head at the same time, because I have more thoughts in my head at the same time! I visited – driven by interest and commitment – Barnahus in Reykjavik last summer. Of course, I did because I wanted to learn and see how they were driving there. But it's not automatically that there's legal equality between all countries, even in the Nordic countries. You could have inequalities. What I said in my main post was that I wanted to find a system so that – almost quote after my own memory – children would not be made a parcel post, and that the professionals would come to the children. That's what I said. And then I said that my goal is to figure out how to do this in Norway, based on our rules, regulations and regulations. And then the representative, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, quoted the whole text of the budget agreement in an entirely proper and tidy manner, which is the main purpose of finding good solutions, possibly establishing Barna's House, if that's the best solution, or finding other solutions, if they're better. That's what the representative Marthinsen said. It is this kind of work that I have committed myself to coming back to in the context of the revised national budget. I'm not going to visit a place because I'm doing some kind of recreational work. Of course I don't. I do it because I am engaged in this, and I assume that there is no one who has purposed rather to suggest that I do it for that reason. That's my background, and then you shouldn't interpret my posts the way the hell reads the Bible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e897	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has had the word twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e900	To the representative Ingerd Schou, I just want to say briefly that if the government wants to settle the revised national budget with SV, we will at least be able to find money for a Barnas House from the fall of. But what I am concerned about being told is that I do not want to take the words of the Council of State in the worst sense – opposite. I really want to put this measure in place, and that is why it is important for me to clarify what the Council of State is thinking. And I thank you for that. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has been to Iceland and seen Barnahus – something I knew about from before. But what's important to us is that this isn't reduced to just becoming an interrogation model. There's going to be something more. On behalf of the Workers' Party and SV, I will refer to paragraph 2 of our proposal for a transmission proposal. We do not want the proposal to be put to the vote, and hope that it will be dealt with in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e909	The representative, Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, has turned paragraph 2 of the motion by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left into a transmission proposal. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1744]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e927	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Trond Helleland will present the matter on behalf of the President-in-Office, Linda Cathrine Hofstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e936	The Progress Party has promoted 22 proposals for action to combat crime. These are about the same proposals made in a similar document No. 8 proposals a short time ago, cf. Inner. S. No 241 for 2003–2004. The Committee has commented on the proposals and the various batches and batch groupings have different comments on several of the proposals. In the explanatory statement for the proposals, the Progress Party points out that: ‘business and profit crime is increasing without police intervention’. Well, since 2001, the government has given priority to combating both everyday crime and organised crime. A number of legislative changes have been implemented to ensure that adequate tools are put in place to tackle and address the challenges posed by proposers. We have increased the penalties in the event of a clash of crimes and repeaters, new legislative measures have been adopted against the illegal use of knives and firearms, legal measures against child and youth crime, against organised crime and terrorism. The latest figures from the Police Directorate also show, fortunately enough, that this has produced results in terms of a decrease in crime of 7.3 pst. In 2004, the claim that crime is increasing ‘without the police being able to intervene’, I do not fully agree. In addition, we have now had a very good budgetary settlement that contributes to the continuation of positive developments. Several of the proposed actions of the Progress Party are under way in the Ministry and will come to the Stortinget during the spring, including: it notified the proposal on police methods and the notification of the police role. There, the Judicial Committee will be presented with thorough and thought-out solutions to ensure that the challenges are effectively and satisfactorily met. The 2005 Judicial Budget is a historic increase for the police, where the Government Parties and the Advance Party have provided an increase in the operational resources of a total of 330 million. kr. Along with the measures and legislative changes that the Government has implemented since 2001, I feel confident that the result will be an even more effective fight against crime and increased security in people's everyday lives. But money alone is not enough to ensure that systems function properly. This is why, over many years, the justice sector has been working on reforms and changes aimed at providing a more efficient sector, for the benefit of society and its citizens. All along, balance in the criminal justice chain has been in focus. This is why, over the last four-year period, the Government has also created 423 new places — when all the new places currently under construction are in place. Since 2000, the police have undergone a major reform to ensure continued close-up police, while at the same time being equipped to combat international organised crime. There have been important changes in police special bodies, in particular to improve the effectiveness of the fight against serious organised crime. New Kripos have just been created and will be a body that will focus on the type of crime that is the most serious, namely the organised. I have great faith that this reorganisation will contribute to an even stronger pressure on the criminals who contribute to the horrific activity that organised criminal activity often results in: trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, etc. Ecocrime has also been strengthened, and is actively engaged in the fight against white-collar crime, economic crime. We need to focus on actions that contribute to more efficient resource use and that businesses are better equipped to meet tomorrow’s challenges. In its comments in the vote, the Progress Party said that several of the measures proposed were known to be under way in the department. Furthermore, the Progress Party says that it ‘must take concrete action’. In my opinion, it is precisely a policy that gives concrete action, the government has been in for the last three and a half years, and is being further followed up in the announced legislative proposals and messages that come in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e960	The fight against crime is very important, and I have seen that the Progress Party on this proposal will continue in many ways, at least outwardly, to give the impression that you are at the forefront of that fight. But after reading the 22 proposals, and after every 23 proposals, I have to say, in all respect, that I think this is very little accurate proposals in relation to combating Norwegian crime. I am very surprised that the Progress Party, which over the years has chosen to use the fight against crime almost for what it is worth, to hijack voters and sympathy out and probably not always to do anything about crime, actually until the degrees make proposals that meet so little in relation to the challenges we face in combating crime, and which are based on so many mistakes. There are so many curious proposals that will actually help in many ways to set aside much of the important legislative work. I have to mention in particular the methodology. For the purposes of point (b), the following definitions shall apply: 3 of Document No The 8 proposal is presented as requiring legislative changes that are necessary in order to be able to use so-called non-traditional methods of investigation such as snooping and provocation, two methods of investigation that the police already use today. In fact, it goes straight into the incredibly important discussion of what kind of methods the police will be allowed to use in the future, and only categorically suggests that the police can use space and communication interception in matters of national security, terror and gross organised crime, without considering the stage of criminal action to be allowed to use such methods. It's really amazing that, as a serious actor in the fight against crime, one actually jumps over what's probably the biggest challenge in relation to the method discussion: when are we going to be allowed to use the method? Should we be allowed to use it in preparation for action, or should it be carried out crime? With its proposal – which is likely to be used in some election campaign – the Progress Party jumps over the whole issue and suggests that it should only be used. I'd like to see if the same party is going to be so categorical when you actually get the law into the Storting, and if you're going to use it as general as this is going to be. This is a proposal that should not be suitable for anything, nor as a mark in political debates. In the view of the Labour Party, there are very different issues that are now calling for both legislative changes and political efforts to do something in relation to the fight against crime in Norway. I'll briefly mention some of the things that are important to us. It is absolutely crucial, which this proposal does not dwell on, that we actually get rid of the cows in Norwegian prisons. It doesn't make sense as it is now, that the police are largely given more and more authority, more and more power, more and more resources in order to solve matters, and then the reaction to the offender is too late, and in many cases completely ineffective. In the opinion of the Workers' Party, it will now be crucial to get rid of the reconciliation queues, so that people come in faster and get a fast and a much more adequate response, so that we can drop the whole rebound problem. If I had been challenged to make 22 or 23 points against crime, it would have been very surprising if I didn't actually stay at that problem, but instead took up completely different and, in my opinion, quite so curious issues. The other thing that is not influenced by this proposal is that one of the main problems in the fight against Norwegian crime is that we detect too little crime. Under 2 pst. of the notifications currently handled by the Norwegian police are linked, for example, to: eco-criminal acts. We know that over 90 pst. Of the girls who are being raped in Norway today, there is never any subsequent convictions. We know that under 20 pst. by those who are subjected to a winning crime, never experience the police taking hold of it, or that they will receive any subsequent convictions. This is the main problem in the fight against Norwegian crime — how are we going to manage to increase the risk of detection, how are we going to be able to deal with more issues so that we can just trust the system? I believe that questions about the use of DNA would be one of the most important crime proposals if you were to create a package. The part of progress sparkles with its absence in such an important issue. Finally, more rapid criminal proceedings will be essential in order to really get out of the whole chain of criminal proceedings. This is why the Workers' Party now wants to propose a plan for a rapid reduction in the pay queue, which I believe is the most important thing we can do today, and I am addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e973	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e976	You should always listen at night when Storberget enters this pulpit, because he is a seller of a message that is, at least if I were to give it a characteristic, perhaps as little material as he claims ours is, but that's now my subjective perception of it. For our part, of course, it is about trying to put forward the measures that we believe will provide further improvement in the fight against crime. Of course, I am very pleased with the budget agreement. The budget agreement gave the police a promise that it has needed for a long time, contrary to what the Labour Party did as a budgetary partner for 2004, where we saw a race and lack of assistance to ordinary people, we saw the sale of vehicles, we saw the sale of boats, we saw even cut to the police in Oslo – that was the Workers' Party's contribution to the fight against crime. And then in the extension of that, under the 2004 budget agreement, the Workers' Party, if I don't remember correctly, got to a bet of approx. Ten million. to the criminal justice system. Yes, hallelujah to it! We made $30 million. kr, so three times as much power we get, without it being at the top of our priority list. There are policies in practice, regardless of what Mr. The big mountain had to like it. I'm a little surprised if it's like the Bigberg and the Workers' Party in the fight are so busy using the right approaches. Why, then, do not support them, for example? the proposal for exemption from charges for vehicles held by the police? We have it for ambulances, we have it for funeral cars, and even the taxis have a reimbursement system. If you want to do something to make everyday life easier and to be able to target costs, you could do things like that. The same thing on the ICT page. The last Police Forum reviews the problems of the coordination of data registers and computer systems – which the Council of State has responded to here – that show that we have major challenges. Of course, you can say that this is too bad. But couldn't be, for example, The Labour Party, if so important, will address the proposals and formulate how to implement them? I think the approach is going to be defensive and a little bit weird with consistently rejecting these. Then you had the opportunity to be involved in formulating things, as you have done in relation to one proposal. But there are certainly more things that you could have done something with. For our part, as I said, this is about taking up the further work to combat the crime that is. I think at least after visiting some police districts last year, that they had a pretty tough time, I think they had a hard time, and I think they were in a situation where they felt that they were not able to do the job to the audience in a good and proper way. That was our approach when we prioritised the police for the current year. But if you're satisfied with one thing, that doesn't mean you're going to tie the rest of things up, then you have to keep fighting because what you think is right political. The same way that the other parties do it, of course I reserve the right to do it. The big mountain was also inside the DNA. We had a proposal in the spring where we actually were with the Working Party on DNA and its use to a much greater extent. Here the Council of State has promised that he will come back with it and report to Stortinget, so it feels at least I am already taken care of. It's all about everything, I guess we have a different approach to some things, but I actually think that's what politics is about. It's choosing the methods and measures that you think are right, and then fronting them. We do it every day, and we all do it in different contexts. I am pleased with the proposals that lie here. I record that the majority say essentially that you have things you work with, and of course you have to respect that. Sometimes we want a little bit more speed. We've had two things before today where we've been discussing these things. Then I will end by addressing our proposals and at the same time declaring that we will subsidiaryly support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e997	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1000	First I would like to join every word Knut Storberget from the Workers' Party said. It was a glittering post. I want to focus this article on what SV thinks is most important if we really want to do something about the crime of society and create greater security. We believe, in fact, that Norwegian criminal policy is completely lost. The main reason for this is not just scandalous long settlement cows or imbalances in the criminal chain, but that the government does not use the knowledge we actually have about Norwegian prisoners, to prevent crime and to rehabilitate prisoners. We believe that the prisoners in Norwegian prisons are living evidence of lack of prevention, lack of rehabilitation and almost absent aftercare. For this, the situation is documented by Fafo last year: At least 60 pst. have extensive drug problems.70 pst. was unemployed when they were inserted.40 pst. lived below the poverty line.40 pst. has the upper secondary school as the highest completed education, almost no higher education. 30 pst. Half of the prisoners have chronic diseases, and they are much higher than the population otherwise suffering from mental problems.Two thirds of the prisoners have experienced an increase in one or more serious problems. 30 pst. had been in contact with child protection before the age of 16, and the same number have experienced that others in the family have been in prison. We could actively use this valuable knowledge. Instead, we continue as before, while a lot of things actually get worse. I can mention in fleng: Over 2,300 convicted are in line. Only 5-10 pst. Of those who have severe drug problems, treatment is offered during treatment and less than before in a drug treatment institution. Criminal services are increasingly under pressure, employees experience that there is less and less time to follow up on prisoners. The result will be more swing door prisoners. There's 25-26 million missing. In order to maintain an OK school offer in prison, we know that almost half of the prisoners only have primary school. Prison libraries are also struggling. Criminal convictions are increasingly concentrated on one cell, both putting pressure on the staff of criminal services and jeopardising the security of prisoners and employees, as well as the deterioration of rehabilitation facilities. The government has set in motion the release, which means that many do not get their release planned properly, and many do not get started properly until they go out again. So prison is becoming more and more the same as storage for a short period of time. If we really wanted to do something other than just patch a little bit here and there, we could have abolished the reconciliation queue by betting on the alternatives to prison. We need to make much more use of drug treatment, community sanctions, conflict advice, free care and pro-mille programmes and involve municipalities, non-governmental organisations and business in integrating jurisdictions into their community environment. SV proposed 175 million. In addition to additional funding for KRUS and prison education, libraries and health care. The pathfinder should have been built out a long time ago. SV proposed seven million. kr for this together with the Working Party. In addition, we would have established Krami in Norway, where sentence gets close follow-up combined with work. The municipality subsidizes employers who accept released prisoners for up to six months – this is a project in Sweden. It's been a success, and most of the prisoners stay in the job. A crown investment is $18. the spades! We should do this in Norway too. By making greater use of the alternatives to prison, we will be able to concentrate more resources on those who are left, for example. organised criminals, dangerous perpetrators of violence, those who commit financial crime, those convicted of rape, those convicted of murder or others whom we believe we must give priority to. If we were to have results as monks, we should have invested in a strong community economy and demanded that anyone working with children should have competence in violence and assault issues. We could have made sure that we increased the competence of family violence and rape, and made a strong effort to detect financial crime, which is a major threat to the welfare state. We could also do much more to prevent unemployment and put a real effort on care and to eliminate poverty and homelessness, which affects crime. SV would also have built up a comprehensive offer for victims and relatives: rape receptions, incest and crisis centres in all counties, crime victims counselling offices that can help write applications for victims of violence, information on rights, witness support, etc. We wanted to establish Barna's House, grant insulted party rights and strengthen the system of free legal aid. In addition, funds must be earmarked for full-time family violence coordinators in all police districts. Family violence must be a priority in police Norway. A lot of the challenge lies here. Taking into account the criminal's own background is not about expounding or apologizing unacceptable acts, but about understanding what is needed to prevent new crime. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the Government is not more concerned with this knowledge. But first of all, it is quite striking to see how the Progress Party totally and totally ignores that question. I also deal with the proposal that SV has.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1062	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1065	In Document No: 8:2 the representatives Hagen, Jensen, Ellingsen and Kvankstad have recycled the proposals that were made in Document No. 8:54 for 2003-2004. This was addressed in the spring of 2004. The document under discussion today promotes 22 concrete proposals. 18 of these are identical to the proposals in Document No. 8:54. Such a reprisal I think the Advance Party could have saved itself. It seems unthinkable to make the same proposal that a few months ago was voted down in this Chamber. In this document, the Progress Party aims to promote measures to ensure a ‘sacrifice and targeted fight against reoccurrence and juvenile delinquency’. The goal is good. However, when not one of the 22 measures proposed concerns the prevention of crime, credibility becomes low. Crime, of course, must be combated – but above all, crime must be prevented. Crime is prevented through a wide range of services for children and young people, a good school and good family relationships and through treatment provision. Police prevention is also important. Ensuring safety and security for the individual is a crucial societal task. In the annual budgets, the various political parties show how we will ensure this through priorities both between and within the various budgetary chapters. In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to prevent and combat crime effectively. The fight against organised crime has been strengthened by the police reform and the establishment of New Kripos. There have been efforts to strengthen the competence of the police and prosecution authorities, and the Storting has adopted a number of legislative changes to meet the major challenges. However, the Christian People's Party recognises that we still have criminal policy challenges that need to be solved in order to maintain Norway as a safe and good society for its citizens. Our objective is clear: justice policy must ensure the rule of law and the security of its citizens. However, the challenges are not solved by simple action and unilateral emphasis on police and punishment, as the Progress Party makes itself the spokesman for through the document proposal. During this ageing period, housing capacity has been expanded by a total of 349 spaces. Similarly, there is a need to build more prison sites so that convictions can begin right after the conviction. In several contexts, the Christian People's Party has pointed out the need to start building a new prison in Halden. Prison sentences should only be applied in exceptional cases to young offenders. Social penalties and conflict advice should be used to a greater extent in response to less serious offences and drug addicts should be able to be sentenced to treatment. The government has announced that it will come back with concrete proposals for judgments to be considered in the revised budget coming to spring. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that when a youth is imprisoned, the reconciliation conditions should be adapted so that the young person can be well prepared for a crime-free life outside prison. Prisoners with drug problems should also be monitored in a special way during the settlement. Judgment and punishment shall be dissuasive, contribute to preserving social tranquillity and give it the sentenced opportunity to put the criminal behind it and restart it. Penalties and penalties must reflect the seriousness of society’s view of different types of crime, thus contributing to the strengthening of the general sense of justice. The punishment must be applied constructively both for society and for the prisoner. Treatment and rehabilitation must therefore be an important part of the settlement. Security and legal certainty are key values in a democratic society. This is precisely why a comprehensive and consistent justice policy is important. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I can promise that this is and will continue to be a central goal. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV. For the government parties, it is obvious that the Minister of Justice is working seriously on this and has a clear purpose in line with the content of this proposal. The content is therefore not irrelevant to us, but we both believe, believe and know that it is also the cause of the Minister of Justice. The proposal is therefore totally unnecessary in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1093	As the majority of the Judicial Committee refers to in Innst. S. No 128 for 2004-2005, similar proposals were considered in the Stortinget on 14 June last year, cf. Inner. S. No 241 for 2003-2004. As in my contribution to the Stortinget at that time, I too, like the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, would like to stress the concern of the crime scene. I am pleased that the Committee's position shows that there is a broad consensus on criminal policy in general. An example of this is the reference by the majority of the Committee to the fact that, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, the Stortinget has adopted a number of legislative changes to meet the major challenges we face in the justice sector. In particular, this concerns the threat to society and the democratic system of cross-border, organised crime and international terrorism, as emphasised by the majority of the Committee. Not least on this basis, I have stressed the need to strengthen the police operation through the police reform and the establishment of New Kripos with prosecution competence. I am also open to considering new methods of police work to combat gross organised crime and serious terrorism. I am now aiming to present to the Stortinget proposals that follow up the Police Methodology Committee’s investigation, NOU 2004:6 ‘Intermediate efficiency and privacy’. The government emphasises a comprehensive criminal policy with cross-departmental cooperation between various relevant agencies, where prevention work on a broad front must be at the core. That is why I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee so strongly emphasises the importance of strengthening prevention. Preventive efforts to prevent children and young people from being recruited to criminal environments and developing a criminal career have been given the highest priority by the Government throughout the period. An example of this is the pilot project ‘Snow young offenders in time’, which is now being carried out as several sub-projects to gain experience of extended and binding administrative cooperation between State and local authorities. We know that drugs are a major contributory cause of various types of crime. This is particularly evident in drug abuse, which contributes largely to reoccurrence crime. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice will try out a system of judgments for treatment according to the model from the so-called Drug Court. DNA profiles have become increasingly important as evidence in criminal matters. A DNA registry was established at the Crime Police Centre in 1998. I have put down a sample to assess the need to modify today's rules on registration and searching for DNA profiles in the central register of DNA profiles and on the collection of DNA samples. The committee shall submit its opinion no later than the end of the year. I have also delivered new shelters during the period that has passed in a number that exceed the number in the planned new Halden prison. And if you look at the sum of new settlements, the limited use of doubles that we use after careful HMS assessments, and the projected release, it's equal to a landfill amount that's more than a half the time the planned Halden prison. It is also true that these short-term measures, which have actually been implemented and implemented at high speed for quite reasonable investments, but of course with the necessary staffing and operation, do not replace long-term prison projects, such as the Halden Prison and the Inner Salt Prison. I can also inform you, as I did in an answer to a question from the representative of Storberget, that the use of community punishment has been right. I can also say that the use of conflict advice increases so it wears out. So it's not that when it comes to fighting the reconciliation queue, the government has only one thought in its head. In fact, those who can settle at the conflict council are increasingly given the opportunity to do so, because we have taken action to strengthen the conflict councils. Those who want to do it through community punishment, and I would like to stress the core areas of the community penalty, are also given a chance to do so, because this is being done in good administrative cooperation between courts, prosecutors, police and criminal justice. In terms of settlements, we've just gone into the differentiation that is necessary between those that I would call 'the fool boys' and all the others that don't belong to that category, in other words, a differentiation that sees the individual for the individual. We have also committed to a comprehensive commitment to administrative cooperation. Finally, I would like to mention that the Government has made proposals for a new general part of the penal code, cf. Ot. pp. No 90 for 2003-2004, currently under consideration in the Justice Committee. In the proposition, I present my government's criminal policy. I have stressed in the proposal the importance of providing the public and society with effective protection, while continuing the main line of humane and flexible criminal prosecution and enforcement. In this context, the Stortinget is given a good opportunity to see criminal policy in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1123	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1744]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1140	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1157	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1174	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1191	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1204	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1212	During the debate, Mr Rød put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size empowers the Government to implement the necessary measures to achieve the required provision to limit the reindeer in West Finland to 63700 animals by 1 April 2005.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1259	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Rolf Rikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 28 February 2005: ‘The Government is asked to prepare a regulation for the Law on Higher Education, which draws the boundaries between free offers and continuing training offers for which there will be a possibility of charging. The question is assumed to have been discussed and submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1278	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party for Progress and independent representatives, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 February 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to incorporate into the higher education funding model a scheme in which the institutions also receive a remuneration for the examination of private individuals.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1297	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party for Progress and independent representatives, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 February 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on property management in the university and higher education sectors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1316	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party for Progress and independent representatives, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 February 2005: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the escalation of state subsidies to private higher education institutions with official recognition in the context of the 2006 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1335	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party for Progress and independent representatives, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 February 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up regulations on the law on universities and higher education which ensure common provisions on coercive measures referred to in Sections 4 to 3 for all types of institutions referred to in the Act.’ [[6]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1354	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Mr Jan Simonsen, sent from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 February 2005: ‘The ruling requests the appropriate return of the Government with an assessment of the use of higher education fitness assessments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1373	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 February 2005: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government, after considering the examination of the Labour Law Committee’s legislative proposals, to present a case assessing the need for its own provisions in the Law on Universities and Higher Education on the Use of Year’s Goals and Temporary Recruitment.’ [[NUE 2004:5]] The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1395	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 February 2005: ‘The Government requests appropriate action to be taken on the scope of continuing education and training services provided by universities and higher education institutions, on the costs associated with the offers, on how they are financed and on what is free of charge in relation to offers on which self-payment is made.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1412	During the debate, Jan Arild Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit legislative proposals that give the same right to an aid lawyer abroad as in Norway, as far as this is possible in criminal proceedings in relation to foreign law.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1438	During the debate Anne Helen Rui put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Point 1 of the proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government is asking the Government to set up a working group with representatives from the police, courts, lawyers, child protection, health professionals, volunteers in the field of violence and abuse against children as soon as possible, as well as from the departments concerned, to assess which organisation would be most appropriate for Barnas Hus in Norway.» In the course of the debate, paragraph 2 of the motion by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left has been converted into a text of transmission and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return with Barnas Hus in Norway in the Revised National Budget.’ The President proposes that point 2 of the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. An alternative is then to vote between paragraph 1 of the proposal and that of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1472	During the debate, 24 proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 2-23, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government to provide an assessment and, where appropriate, to submit a proposal for a charging system for call-out vehicles, using a non-discrimination principle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1499	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2–23, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1645	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit a plan for a rapid reduction in the pay queue so that repeat criminals are also quickly called to effective settlement.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1678	There is a vote on the proposal by Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 1 February 2005: ‘The government is asking for a separate case of free legal aid in 2005, with a view to expanding the scope of the case and embracing a larger proportion of the population. The Finnish model is assessed separately.» The centre party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1699	There is a vote on the proposal by Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 1 February 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether to introduce a maximum price for the hourly fees of lawyers in selected cases involving ordinary consumers in, for example, child distribution cases, housing and property cases, consumer cases, damages cases and matters relating to social rights, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate form.’ The centre party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1720	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 1 February 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the regulation on the unit price rate in cases involving forced marriages so that a unit price rate of up to 12 hours is applied.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1737	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 1 February 2005: «The Government asks the Government to amend the regulation on free legal aid in such a way that, when a party is admitted to free action in a child-sharing case, the other party shall also be free of charge if his income does not exceed the income limit for free legal aid by NOK 100000. This Regulation shall apply from 1 January 2006.’ The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against the proposal. The centre party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1814	The Presidency proposes that this should not be taken into consideration, having regard to Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative, Mr Ballo, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1819	The Presidency's reason for not considering the proposal is that similar proposals have been made in the 2005 budget debate. That is true, but what happened during the budgetary procedure was that the proposal was adopted. So you have a majority in this room that goes in order for it to be done as it says in Document No. 8:52. The reason why the matter is raised again is that the Government has justified that they will not follow up the decision taken by a majority in the Grand Duchy. I find it a little remarkable that one should reject the fact that a decision that the Stortinget has taken will be followed up by the Government. That is what the draft document says. When the matter was dealt with, it was clearly a majority. The proposers at the time were the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. SV joined the hall. What we are doing now is stressing that there is a decision and that the Government must follow up that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1828	I have a certain understanding of the attitude to reject the proposal, because it is more of a party-political neutral attitude. It has only been found that this proposal has been discussed in the past. As the representative Ballo said, there is actually a decision, and the government says in a letter on a question earlier about this that the government does not intend to follow up. So there is a decision in the Stortinget that the Government says they won't implement. It's quite strange, although we also have other cases of this, which we dealt with yesterday in connection with St.meld. No 4th@item: But there is actually room in Section 47 to deal with a matter again. I will refer you to § 47: ‘When a case is finally settled, it may not be brought back, or reopened in the same collection. However, if it is necessary, or if the Government promotes a proposal or notification within the same area of the Grand Duchy, the matter may be decided to do so, provided that the matter is again dealt with by the Committee.’;» In our opinion, it is ‘necessary’ to re-examine this issue. It's actually in our opinion urgent. It's of course a party political assessment, but this is a party political assembly, and it's up to the same majority who voted for this proposal last time, not simply finding out that the government says it won't implement it. It is stated in Section 47: «provided that the matter is again dealt with by the Committee». This means that you are dependent on having the matter dealt with by the committee within Section 47. I allow myself to make suggestions that Document No. 8:52 for 2004-2005 is sent to the Social Committee. And then you might have to deal with the more constitutional and other questions in that area. During the last few days I have also looked a little bit close to the Liability Act of 5 February 1932. There are also some provisions on what can possibly be done if a government explicitly refuses to follow a decision on the size of the population, but we will have to come back to that in a different and later context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1844	The representative Carl I. Hagen has promoted the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1847	The presidency dealt with Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure when we considered how this proposal was to be dealt with. It is quite clear from Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure that proposals that have been decided in one thing cannot be dealt with in the same way. The Presidency – and the undersigned – cannot see that there are particular circumstances that would lead to a departure from the general rule of Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure. Now I am not the one who will defend the Government when the Government refuses to implement what the Storting has ordered the Government to do in the form of a decision, without the Government coming back and giving a reason for this and the Storing thereby perhaps taking a different decision. I refer just to yesterday's debate on the request and investigation decisions, which were dealt with following a suspension by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. What the representative has to do if he is dissatisfied with the government's follow-up to the Stortinge decision is to make a proposal for the Stortinge saying that the Stortinge regrets that the Government does not do so. Then, of course, the proposal could be dealt with in the same thing, because then the government's way of doing things is not subject to instructions to do something that the Storting has previously decided. If the representative is of the opinion that the Storting should correct the Government for not doing his job, I would recommend him to formulate the proposal in a completely different way. It could then be taken up for treatment in this thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04.ana.ud2457e1858	Several have not asked for the word. The Presidency has then proposed that no. 144 are not taken during treatment. As an alternative, between the Presidency's proposal and the proposal by Mr Carl I. Hagen, that Document No. 8:52 is sent to the Social Committee.
