ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e30	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e39	The Government's proposal to amend the Health Business Act is an attempt to base the valuation of the capital of enterprises on a level of funding granted by the Storting, rather than the real value. The proposal involves a deviation from the general provisions of the Accounting Act. The proposal implies that depreciation costs are one third too low in relation to the actual estimated cost of capital. That is, it's written off about NOK 2 billion too little per year. year after such calculation. It surprises me that the government presented this proposal after that absolutely all the hearing bodies had categorically turned down their thumbs for this proposal. The reason for the resistance of the hearing bodies was that they are concerned that the accounting for fixed assets in the undertakings does not reflect their real value. This may have adverse consequences for patients’ health. The government's proposals would have to lead to an increasing lag in the maintenance and renewal of equipment in hospitals. In the setting, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party support the government's publishers that healthcare companies should have an opening balance sheet that will only reflect two thirds of the actual values. The consequence of this is that one third of the building mass, equivalent to a value up to NOK 40 billion, either needs to be refurbished or mature. This may mean the closure of a number of local hospitals, which the Workers' Party cannot accept. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, believe that the Government's proposal violates the assumption that the opening balance for health enterprises should be based on the cost-recovery principle. In my view, this is very important. Our vision is otherwise what was originally founded both by the Stoltenberg government and by the Bondevik II government. The working party believes that an increased level of funding for healthcare companies will be necessary to ensure a satisfactory patient offer. I record that the representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party believe that increased resources should be prioritised for patient treatment and not for depreciation. At best, it's very short-sighted. As mentioned earlier, the consequence of the policies of these parties is that the building mass of health businesses, equivalent to almost NOK 40 billion, will have to be cancelled or rehabilitated. This will lead to a significantly lower offer for patients. I would also like to point out that the Bondevik II administration has been very sparing to propose increases in patient treatment. At the latest in the revised national budget, a proposal was presented which would mean very little for patient treatment. However, as in previous budgetary proceedings, the bulk of the population is likely to provide more money than the government has proposed. Exemptions from the general principles for setting the level of depreciation for health businesses proposed by the Government will complicate an increasing fall in maintenance and new acquisitions in the hospital sector, which will in the long term weaken the standard of patient provision. The Labour Party believes that the case-making in Ot.prp. No 56 with consultation opinions confirm the need for an increased level of funding for healthcare companies to ensure a satisfactory patient offer. That is why, at every budget proposal from this government, we have also proposed increased funds for hospitals. The lack of valuation and the level of depreciation have created both problems and uncertainties for health businesses. It is really critical and unfortunate that at an earlier time, the government has not taken the initiative to clarify this. So the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Finance have put their heads together, and the result therefore had to be given a battle page that only economists in the Ministry of Finance could say they were satisfied with. I must be able to claim to know the law on health companies and the thinking behind the law fairly well. In this context, I would therefore like to point out that it is clear from Section 43 of the Health Business Act that the provisions of the Accounting Act apply to regional health enterprises and health enterprises. I am surprised by the adjustments made by the Ministry to the technical valuation in order to make today's level of funding appear to be the correct one and thus in accordance with the letter and intention of the law. It reminds of the darkest aspects of sport, where the battle results are influenced by bad judges, and where a cheater using dolls to win. Now I do not suspect the Minister of Health and Care that I have baptized neither myself nor anyone else in the government team, but if the government's bill had escaped through the Storting, the impression would easily be a false result.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e69	The hospital reform essentially means that the State took over as the owner of all public hospitals, psychiatric institutions, reporting services, hospital pharmacy, laboratories and drug treatment institutions. A large project work was behind the administrative transfer from the county to health enterprises. Each and every property and asset was recorded. The purpose of Ot.prp. No 56 is to establish an opening balance sheet for enterprises after that acquisition. It facilitates the simplification of the governance and follow-up of individual health businesses, so that the performance of enterprises can be measured against the decision of the Storting. In connection with the hospital reform, the state reorganized DKK 15 billion in debt in the county council related to hospitals. The county paid NOK 2 billion annually in interest and instalments on this debt. These 2 billion, together with approximately DKK 1 billion in previously earmarked funds for the equipment plan and the psychiatry escalation plan, have now been converted into free revenues in the basic allocation of regional health enterprises to cover depreciation. Thus, health businesses are currently in a significantly better position to maintain and recycle construction and equipment than before. This is confirmed by the fact that the investments in the enterprises in the current year will exceed NOK 22 billion. It would be strange for the valuation of the capital of undertakings not to take into account the previous level of investment and the level of allocation on the Storting. Thus, the valuation obtained in the proposition is the best estimate of the value in use. In view of this, there should be scope for improving the efficiency of fixed assets. Unlike the efficiency requirement set to achieve an operational balance, the efficiency requirement for fixed assets will be distributed over the next 20 to 30 years and will be made visible as construction and equipment are restored. The annual efficiency requirement is approximately 0,15 pst. of the total costs incurred by the undertakings. Composite annual results such as, inter alia: is presented in the accounts of enterprises for 2003, making it difficult to measure how resources are managed by enterprises during the year in relation to the requirements of the size of the financial result. It is absolutely essential that schemes are put in place to enable business performance to be measured against policy requirements. If the proposal for a regulatory remedy to the Health Business Act § 43 is not adopted today, a deficit will be generated in health enterprises as a result of the way in which the valuation has been made. Health enterprises will appear with a deficit of approximately DKK 2 billion greater than by following the Government's proposal. This deficit must be covered either by improving efficiency or by adding more money to health care businesses. The Christian People's Party is putting patient treatment in the high seat and wants the funds that the Social Committee grants to the specialist health service to be directed to the treatment of patients. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that if you want to spend NOK 2 billion more on hospitals, you should give priority to patient treatment, and especially to drug and psychiatry, and not to write off the building mass. I'm going to deal with the proposals that the government parties are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e90	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e93	Here the government has a very bad thing. There's nothing better with the defense of the proposition that the government party's representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund now argued from this pulpit. In fact, the present Government proposal to amend the Health Business Act involves a deviation from the general provisions of the Accounting Act on which the undertakings of the Act are obliged. This seems to me to be a very eye-catching aspect of the Progress Party. The impact on undertakings is that, if this Government proposal were to be adopted, it would be written off approximately. 2 billion DKK is too small in enterprises every year. Businesses cannot live with this in the future. The Progress Party has noted that almost all of the hearing bodies concerned with the Government's proposal are negative, naturally enough, to amend the law on the grounds that, with such a change of law and practice as is envisaged here, the annual accounts of undertakings will not be correct. The non-financing of the cost of capital in the hospital should be provided by the annual accounts. I have noticed that all health companies also disagree with the proposal the Government has now made in the proposal. In Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001 the Ministry of Health then issued the following statement: ‘In addition to the visibility of capital costs, the provisions of the Accounting Act lead to a greater focus on’... ‘income and expenses’. That's the opposite of it being added up from the Government now. In addition, it says: ‘The Ministry considers that, as a whole, this provides a good overview of governance of the business economy and important contributions to the good and efficient use of capital by enterprises.’ It is the very opposite that would happen if this proposal had been adopted. The proposal now presented by the Department goes in a different direction without giving any reason why, but the reason we can all imagine, namely saving money. Apart from saving the state for money, this proposal has nothing to do with normal practice and competence. Many hearing bodies have stated that the Ministry must return to the Stortinget with a provision for financing the cost of capital of enterprises as quickly as possible. The Progress Party believes that this must already be done on the presentation of next year’s government budget, i.e. for 2006. It is my claim that the Ministry has so far been low-professional in terms of financing, both in terms of capital and the usual operating costs of enterprises, which has led to major problems for individual enterprises and equally serious problems for the Storting, which, after all, must be responsible for the annual appropriations for health enterprises. It is now imperative that the Ministry review, at the latest, the impact of the next year’s government budget on the financial management objectives of health undertakings, so that undertakings can operate under foreseeable management objectives and under the Accounting Act, on which undertakings are obliged. This cannot be changed at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e126	Because I still have a certain work as a doctor, I have since the deadline for submitting the declaration and delivered it a few days ago. I have tried to fantasize a little: if I had used the methods proposed by the government here, and had used them against the tax rate when I filled out the tax return, it would not have been good. That statement had been returned. Because if you implement what the government here is proposing, and if you continue on the creative track, you'd think that instead of costing you $1 million. Getting an ambulance, it costs $100,000, and then you set the depreciation time to a hundred years. This means that health businesses no longer have a deficit at all, but that they have huge profits, and that they are flooded with money. We hear that the understanding of this is so ingrained that Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund even believes that it is not particularly important to maintain the building mass, paint the hospital buildings, take care of the ambulances, replace the equipment and set the values to the real one. No, priority should be given to treatment. And you could say that. You could say, just as you could say about your own home, your own house, that it's not very important to take care of the roof when it starts to rain in. The most important thing is to live in the house. It's not very important to paint the façade. It's not very important to pay the car insurance either, because as long as the car is running, you have a car – the condition is less important. Fortunately, the Norwegian population is largely more serious than that. What's regrettable is that the government doesn't. It is clear that this was not possible to adopt. But it has a consequence that it is not adopted. For SV, it will be important to have a valuation, relating to health enterprises, relating to hospitals, relating to buildings, to installations, to equipment, which is real. That means that we necessarily have to bring in that capital, at the cost of maintaining it. This means that we have to get real numbers on the table that say something about what needs to be replaced every year to keep the equipment safe and to buy new equipment. That means that the 2 billion dollars that the Government has tried to hide through creative bookkeeping that you need to come in with annually beyond what you grant today, you have to bring them in, if we don't sit down and see that the building stock is decaying, that the equipment can't be renewed, and that the facilities are lost. What we see now in the direction of health companies is how they are pressed to start selling land to raise capital, with a very short-term idea that there is a way to ensure that the deficits don't get so big. But that's unfortunate. This means losing areas that could have been used in the long term for either the expansion of hospitals, for non-profit purposes such as kindergartens, schools or other public purposes. But we see that happens. We see that it happens by beginning to phase out the Sogn Center for Child and Youth Psychiatry, we see that there has been a discussion around Dikemark. We'll get a lot of such discussions. For SV, it is important that this is addressed at an overall level, that policy decisions are the basis for making such major changes. That is what we have also proposed in the position of this proposition. Unfortunately, it's just the Center Party that supports us in it. After all, when the Minister of Health does not receive support for this type of creative accounting, it must be expected that the Council of State will also be clear as to the consequences of the provision of the equipment and how a plan for the recovery of actual costs will be envisaged, so that equipment, installations and buildings will not be lost over time. I am referring to the proposal by the Socialist Left and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e141	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e144	I can join in and stress that the government here has an incredibly bad case. It was not only bad in content when it was first submitted, but it is really reprehensible that the government has not submitted anything before about this matter, which I have requested on several occasions. Among other things, in the Budget indent. S. No 11 for 2004-2005, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party stated the following: ‘The fact that one of the main elements of the reform is not yet in place is a small credit to health reform. A complete valuation, and therefore the status of enterprises, was a prerequisite for the new operating model.» The opening balance sheet has never been put in place, despite the fact that goods were added after 1 January 2002, when the state took over the health enterprises from the county municipalities. There have also been no proper depreciation rules. It was like some of the jewels in the crown – to rewrite a little – this tax arrangement that one had to discuss a few years ago, that one should have a proper accounting, and that health care businesses should be assessed in the same way as all other economic activities, and as an ordinary enterprise. The argument of the then Minister of Health Tore Tønne, and of the supporting parties, the Advance Party and the Right, was that business-economy assessments and rules of play were to be given to health businesses. This has played down. And it's getting even worse now with what the government has presented, and with the government party's argument today: we have to use increased resources for patient treatment and not for depreciation. It sounds very good, but it's cheating for the outside world – and I think the jam is also trying to cheat for themselves. The accumulated deficit will have to be repeated at some point, and then it will be very critical for health businesses – and therefore for the apparatus to serve people in terms of health care. 2 billion kroner a year we try to cheat away with this accountant -- it's almost a trick culture. And when you say that you want to use this for patient treatment, it's going to be completely wrong. Because no matter how you turn it around, this is not enough for health businesses to operate. In ten years, the amount will be 20 billion kroner. The rhetoric from the government parties today is going to be like what we've heard before in this room from all the other parties except the Center Party: trying to cancel debts will not help health businesses. Certainly it will help health businesses! It will put health businesses in a much better position to carry out health care — what to do. I still think that the government parties here argue something like Erasmus Montanus, through Holberg's pen: Mother Nile cannot fly. A rock can't fly. Ergo is Mother Nille a stone. It's kind of hopeless. The worst part of this is that it threatens the structure of Health Norway. One of the pillars of the health reform was that the values created in the Norwegian health system should be respected. In fact, we all agreed on that. The depreciation rules and the accounting restrictions to which they are trying to add will dramatically undermine and weaken the values created in the Norwegian health system in a short time. Fortunately, an overall opposition was so clear this time that the entire bill was sent back. I hope the government will come back quickly with a proper, credible and dignified arrangement. This approach must already be in place for the 2006 budget. Then we have to be willing to invest the resources needed to have a good and safe health policy in this country – with local hospitals and specialist hospitals that can provide people with the health care they deserve – and not play a game that really undermines people’s health security. The weakest joints are, of course, the outermost regions, i.e. the local hospitals. In order to obtain funds for the larger central institutions, emergency preparedness is being cut across the country, which is very worrying. It is also to be sold away from property, as we have seen examples at Gaustad, at Dikemark and at the Rikshospital – before the Rikshospital actually started. This is a very bad and slightly forward-looking health policy. In this context, I would like to refer to the proposal on which the Senterpartiet is associated with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e168	That proposal has been addressed in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e171	I understand that there has been some liberalisation of language, of what passes as parliamentary vocabulary, but we have to do so gradually. The proposal submitted by the Government in Ot.prp. No 56, amendments to the Health Business Act allow the King to prescribe a provision for accounting for non-current assets for which the entity acquires ownership. The proposition sets out the principal lines of such a regulation. It should not deserve the characteristic "jux". This proposal is a follow-up to a number of major documents. The aim has been to establish a final opening balance sheet for regional health businesses and health businesses. The proposal provides for simpler governance and follow-up of health businesses. This is ensured by the fact that the annual accounts of undertakings may be used for the purpose of measuring the profit or loss, in accordance with the premises underlying the annual budgetary decisions of the Trustee. The proposal further requires the efficiency of the input of health business assets over a 20-30-year time horizon. The reasons for promoting the legislative proposal are essentially two aspects. Firstly, the Government considers that the valuation of the capital of undertakings must be based on the level of appropriations granted by the Storting, in addition to technical assessments and the replacement value. This level of funding reflects what has been in use until now and has been sufficient to provide specialised health services to an adequate extent. A valuation that also includes this element gives, in my opinion, the best estimate of a fair value in use of the capital of enterprises Secondly, as far as I know, it is not the intention of Stortingen that the conversion made into a new accounting policy should in itself lead to increased transfers from the state. Health enterprises are in a significantly better financial position in maintaining and reacquiring construction and equipment than the counties were. In the context of the hospital reform, the state reorganized DKK 15 billion of the debt of the county councils related to hospitals. The county councils paid about NOK 2 billion annually in interest and instalments on that debt. These DKK 2 billion, together with about DKK 1 billion in previously earmarked funds for equipment plans and the Roadmap for mental health, have now been converted into free revenues in the basic allocation to regional health businesses to cover depreciation. If you look at what's actually happening in companies, you'll also notice that there's not exactly a standstill in investment. Reality is on the contrary a record investment activity. At the end of this year 22 billion kroner have been spent for this purpose only after the implementation of the hospital reform. It is worth noting that the sector, among other things. implements the two largest inland projects of Norway history. The government has by no means sub-communicated. The fact that the bill has met with counterclaims is very explicit in the proposition. Among other things, the relationship with the Accounting Act is discussed. However, the government has assessed the importance of contributing to improved patient treatment in this sector. This must weigh more than ensuring the application of the Accounting Act to health businesses, which means that we have to spend about NOK 2 billion more a year on depreciation to reacquire buildings, stone by stone. A new accounting principle was introduced for health enterprises to better understand all the costs of the specialist health service, including the annual costs associated with the use of capital. This objective does not change, even if the fixed assets of undertakings are valued in accordance with specific provisions laid down in this Regulation. Undertakings shall continue to keep results-oriented accounts in accordance with the Accounting Act. Furthermore, the functioning of the draft regulation is limited and does not apply to fixed assets acquired after 1 January 2002. The proposal addresses both the need to take account of capital costs and the need to have sound governance and follow-up of undertakings. I also note that the majority of the Social Committee believes that the proposal will complicate an increasing lag in maintenance and new acquisitions in the hospital sector. It is important here to point out that the actual situation of health businesses does not change by what the Storting determines in this case. The need for reinvestment is not affected by the accounting rules in force. But, of course, the possibilities of reinvesting depend on the economic sustainability of healthcare companies. I hope that there can be agreement that no matter what technique a user uses when making the accounts, there are only two ways to cover the increased depreciation. Either health businesses need to be required to streamline, or more resources have to be allocated — or a combination of these two. There are three alternatives to the Government's proposal in the Odelstingsproposition, either making health enterprises appear in deficit for the next 20 to 30 years, which will make it very difficult to direct health businesses towards clear and unambiguous performance targets, or allowing the increased depreciation costs to be included in the efficiency requirement of health enterprises, with the consequences it will have for the provision of services that it could thus entail, or – eventually – increase the annual appropriations of health enterprises, so that they can recover all they took over from county municipalities, stone by stone, without creating operating deficits. However, the last option will mean that we have to spend up to NOK 2 billion more on hospitals to cover depreciation of an unoptimized building mass. It'll be a wrong priority at my discretion. I am concerned that the money should be spent as much as possible on health, and that they should go directly to the treatment of the individual patient. If enterprises are able to recover all the building stock, the efficiency potential actually on the capital side of this sector will be undermined. The hospital reform and the total state ownership provide new opportunities for better coordination of investment and capital needs in hospitals. I have also noticed that in the setting there is a unanimous committee – although there are two comments – that point to the possibility of efficiency improvement. Over several decades, the county has built up a hospital structure that is not necessarily rational or optimal in the current situation. My impression is that the 19 county councils made an offer for their own inhabitants, and that they had little coordination between themselves. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee seems to believe that the same healthcare companies – these five – have the potential to streamline the use of both buildings and equipment, but I regret that this reasoning does not exist again when the same majority proposes to reject the bill. If the proportion proposal is rejected — and this is all the more obvious — the accounts for 2004 will be made as in 2003. It would then not be possible to directly hold accounting profit against the balance sheet requirement of the Storing. The proposal in the odelstingsproposition provides for a management system that is both practicable and integrates capital use as an important input into the specialist health service. Thus, in the absence of acceptance of the edifice, health firms must be subject to additional efficiency requirements or more money must be allocated to depreciation. So if this doesn't happen, the enterprises in the future will appear with large annual deficits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e205	It was not meant to blow the limit of what is proper language use, but I came from a debate about doping a few hours ago. It was close to comparing with results that are often influenced by unfortunate measures to achieve them. I noticed that the Council of State now underlined that the basis for future appropriations would reflect the basis on which you have already granted money. But I believe that it is the case for the Council of State as it is for us in the Committee on Social Affairs that we are seeing severe out-of-court needs, which obviously have not been sufficiently met in the past. It makes me draw the conclusion that it can hardly be the right level we're at right now. Will the Council not deal with the need for us to have temporary hospitals and time equipment in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e212	I am very pleased that we can conduct this debate completely without baptism, as the representative was about to do. The question was whether I did not sign such an unmet need, if I did not see the need for conversion, if I did not want a temporary hospital. I think I have exactly the same desire -- it's probably a little too soon to call it the longing -- that it should be a reality. But I cannot understand with my best will that this accounting concept where we make sure that we have NOK 2 billion more for depreciation, and add 2 billion – 2 plus and 2 minus – will not result in exactly the same migration challenges in Norwegian health care. It's a good thing to keep exactly the system that we've proposed here, and nevertheless grant 1 billion, 2 billion, or whatever you want, to get exactly these temporal hospitals. I have also noticed that in the revised national budget there are no parties that have proposed appropriations to justify the positions they have on this odelsting proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e223	We are now dealing with this matter. I assume that in some other offices and in some other corridors, the second matter is discussed by the Minister of Health and Health. We'll see where it's going. But what we have to deal with is that the Storting is making a decision today. It's not going in the direction of the government, it's quite obvious. The Council of State itself has outlined up to several solutions here instead — what needs to be done, whether further efficiency needs to be improved, or whether more allocations need to be made. We also have the matter that has been discussed in the past, which is on balance sheet requirements and some of these things in order to get out of what is now happening. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State think it will come back here with that assessment, and what will the Council of State's recommendation be to ensure that hospitals receive the funding to be provided — including the possibility of being able to reinvest in accordance with the accounting principle and the depreciation to which it is charged?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e232	I didn't just have a revised national budget for 2005 in mind. I look at all the budgetary procedures that have been in place since 2002, and then almost every year we have to sum up all the individual proposals of the parties in this area in order to arrive at such an amount as these additional write-offs would suggest. But I'm recording that the majority of the committee, which is all the parties except the government parties, is saying: ‘The majority consider it natural to assume that health businesses have the potential to streamline both the use of buildings and equipment and the operation itself in the years to come.’ What is contained in our proposal actually represents 0.15 pst. I've outlined what alternatives exist, theoretically, for this. I have been informed that enterprises must be prepared for the Storting to adopt what is the position of the Social Committee and that the financial reporting for 2004 must follow what was done in 2003. So it'll be natural to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with how this is going to be solved in the future. The first ordinary occasion for this is probably in St.prp. No 1 for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e246	I hope it's not the word'maintenance' that has suddenly become unparliamentary language. The consequence of this decision is the need to provide a real overview of the values held by and what it actually costs to keep them. It is also necessary to have an overview of the fact that if you own a mass of buildings on which it is inappropriate to sit, it is reasonable to monitor this, in order to make policy decisions on change. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate for the various health establishments to make decisions on their own, as is now the case with the Sogn Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry, to liquidate in relation to large, valuable areas, move on it, perhaps to lose what could have created the basis for sensible operations in the future, without having a political overview of the plans and thus to focus on what is sensible to sell, and what is not reasonable to sell?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e255	I very much agree with what the representative, Ballo, initially said, related to getting an overview of whether it is such that the carrying amounts are consistent with what are the fair values. This with real values can be so often. We now see that some of the companies are starting to take such a review. There are significant differences in what is carried and what are realistic values. Some have already received the approval of the auditor, in fact this spring, to make such write-downs. It turns out that a building built with 65 million. NOK, as I have seen, is so full of indebtedness in the agreement with the municipality that it is actually worth less than $65 million. kr. But this reform is such that it is up to the board of individual corporations and the individual RHF to manage their property portfolio, both in terms of building new buildings – there is a limit of 500 million. kr before going to the Ministry – and as regards sales. It is not that there are overall policy assessments related to individual disposals. The size has determined that it should be at the level of regional health enterprises and/or health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e266	The Health Minister said that it was difficult to manage health businesses if you did not have an overview. I agree. But does the Minister of Health also agree that because the Government has not been involved in putting this in place before, has the Government been involved in weakening the health companies' operating base and the ability to have proper governance? Thus, several years have passed before the health enterprise reform has started to work, and nothing has yet been put in place, first because there has been austerity in the government, and then because the government has put forward a totally useless system. The other applies to investments. The Health Minister said that there was no ‘standby’ in the investments, but that it had been used approximately. NOK 22 billion. All right! In the summer of 2003, it was found that there was an investment need in health enterprises that would at least amount to DKK 50 billion. Now I would like to know if the Minister of Health has an overview of this, as the owner and the top authority for health companies. What is the investment need per year? 1 June 2005 for health establishments?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e273	Of course, there is a need for an overview. But it is not that that overview changes depending on the accounting clearance principle. It's not like if you're based on one principle, you have an overview, and if you're based on the other, all the overview you need is steam away. So the question of this weakened the basis of governance. The answer is no! It has no impact on the ability to manage regional health enterprises. So there was a question of whether we have an overview of all investment needs. There, I think we have to distinguish between desires and needs. The wishes are formidable. The sum of all local, good ideas comes up in considerable billions. We have a system that's just going to be over 500 million. kr to be treated in the department. Of course, we have an overview of the situation at any time, so if the representative of Lutvold wants the exact figure per. Of course, it is also available on 1 June 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e282	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e287	The two alternatives available for voting today both require the use of the Accounting Act mechanisms. The difference between what the government parties stand for and what the opposition stands for is that one with the opposition's proposal, if one is to use the accounting mechanism, has to add up to NOK 2 billion to depreciation. But there is no need for one to use the same mechanisms with the proposals of the government parties. Therefore, this is not a matter that involves some hokuspokus, which can almost get the impression here, that only the Stortinget will not accept the government's legislative proposals, it is suddenly NOK 2 billion more for health companies. Of course, that's not the case. This is a matter of priority in the case. I record that if the opposition believes that the mechanisms of the Accounting Act will work, one will also have to prioritise NOK 2 billion for this purpose. I would like to remind you of the debate we recently had on psychiatry in this room. The representative, Mr. Ballo, was then in Harmony over the Workers' Party, but the representative, Mr. Ballo, is in charge today, if he is going to follow what he says, that one spends $2 billion for the depreciation of building, bricks for bricks, instead of using these means for example. psychiatry escalation plan. We must not believe that the Storting can be neutral in relation to priority issues by decision-making. This is a matter of priority, and this is a priority. I am also surprised at the central party's touching concern for the health reform, which they themselves opposed. I would like to remind you of the system that worked before, when the county councils had NOK 15 billion in debt and paid NOK 2 billion a year in interest and debt repayments, which was then cancelled in connection with the reform. Hospitals are now in a much better position to conserve their building mass than they were under the model of the Centre Party, because the main problem is that the opposition's proposal is based on a theory that the building mass today, which is planned to be expanded through 19 counties, has an optimal structure. Of course it doesn't. Here, there is a significant potential for efficiency improvement. Record investments in the health sector are currently being made. There are 6 to 7 billion DKK annually in investments that are responsible for the mass of construction and equipment we have. Of course, there will always be a need for more, but there will be a matter of priority in this room, not a question of a hocus-pocus in relation to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e299	First, a small visit to the representative Bent Höie, where he uses the term ‘Responsive care of the Centre’ for health businesses. In fact, I believe that we have been concerned about health companies, and I acknowledge that. Whether or not it is 'troubled' is given to Mr. Hey, consider it. But what is quite clear is that there has always been too little recognition or overview by the state in terms of the need for economy in the hospital sector. Therefore, it was also bad times when the county councils had it, and the state had to finance the operation. Thanks to the County Councils trying to balance this by finding other means, it went in a way at the time. But now one only depends on the government's appropriations, and then it goes wrong. The Health Minister said that one was dependent on overview. Yes, you are. But can the Minister of Health not then admit that when one does not even have an opening balance sheet, one lacks the overview that is essential to operate in accordance with the principles of the Accounting Act and to see what is needed? And then to the level of investment, there's a difference between desires and needs. Yes, I also see that wishes are formidable. But then it might be the owner and the top authority that have the task of distinguishing between wishes and needs. Then the owner and the top responsible must base his overview on what he thinks is the need, and then he will get back to Stortinget with it, and then we will have to take a round on it. I didn't ask about the numbers tomorrow, but I deliberately asked about yesterday's figures as to what the investment needs are. It should therefore be possible to obtain it. And so that no parties have allowed money in line with what is needed. If the Minister of Health had taken the trouble to look at what the Centre Party has tried to grant – and got quite a few slips for – I think he would actually see that we have followed it up. We proposed, among other things: a debt cancellation of up to 3 million. kr at the turn of the year 2003/2004. After the government's own figures, it would mean that there was a backlog and a debt problem at about that time. Three billion kroner. We have also proposed a higher operational framework for health businesses in the state budgets. Because we have not reached that point, we have also proposed more money to health businesses in connection with the effusion, both now in December 2004 and in December 2003 – so I think we have actually tried to follow this up. We opposed the health reform and the establishment of a health enterprise, but when it first arrived, we have tried to facilitate this in a proper and satisfactory way for those of the country’s citizens who need health care and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e312	I believe that Bent Höie is quite right in his reasoning. When the majority decides not to support the Government, the majority also has an obligation to secure funds for care – i.e. for buildings, installations and equipment. Then you can discuss this on the basis of the figure NOK 2 billion, because that should have been covered in the current year's budget or before. It would be quite natural to take funds in the context of revision. But the Minister of Health is certainly right that it is not a question of ‘stone for stone’ – that is the concept he used – necessarily replacing everything. Whereas it is necessary to provide for a complete review of all health establishments' facilities, equipment and buildings, in order to determine the level at which it is appropriate to have in the future; How should health businesses be further developed? But SV fundamentally disagrees with the government parties when they say that this is up to health companies and that it is not a political task. It has to be a political task to say something about the structure to have in Health-Norway, what to bet on, where to build it on, and at all, what capital is thus needed. I believe that the reasoning for Bernt Höie is correct. In the context of the revised national budget, we need to spend more money on health businesses than the government has proposed in order to provide facilities, equipment and buildings. Getting 2 billion dollars in the revised is not realistic, but that you should have a significant sum, where a good part of that sum is just going to go for that purpose, is right. This is a commitment that the opposition has, so I hope that together with the Labour Party and the Advance Party you can find a commitment for that purpose, just as a consequence of the decision we make.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e323	It'll just be a note -- map maybe! Today's record investments would hardly have seen the light of day if we had followed the investment regime that the government parties are now putting up with. In fact, the big investments we now have at St. Olav in Trondheim, what's going on at Aarhus, and what's happening at the Rikshospital, would not be possible without direct appropriations. We don't have a system that will fully capture the big investments in the future. So I'll give the Council of State, and also Bent Höie, right in that it's clearly a careful assessment of the use of the building mass you have, and the need to keep it. We're not going to zero out this reasoning here in Stortinget today, because it's important -- I'm going to give the Council of State support. But the danger signal of the arrangement it's set up from the Government now is that we're going to end up at a level where we can't take care of the necessary investments and maintenance. It must not be the case, as the representative of Ballo described, that there was a danger that a seller would be able to obtain money from the building mass in order to manage operations and what might be of future investments, if this is the building mass one needs to achieve the objectives of the patient treatment for which it is set to be responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e332	It is quite clear that the decision that we are considering today will have consequences for businesses and the economic sector in the future. That's also why, in the line change with the Council of State, the undersigned asked this very question: When can we get a case that deals with these things, and decide on it? One of the issues addressed by the Council of State is efficiency. The second thing, of course, is about what's going on with the grant, that's direct grants, or the normal transfers you have. The council itself was saying that the first opportunity we have to go into this piece, maybe is in connection with St.prp. No 1, where appropriate, in the redeploying proposals coming to the harvest. So, in terms of what's the most appropriate way to deal with this, the Storting must be behind an invitation to the Council of State to come back and just look at this. We obviously have a responsibility when we now take this decision. But that's a desired consequence, because hospitals need equipment in the future. Whether that's right or not what you say about quantity, area and building mass, we don't know that, but it's a big step from there to changing the accounting principle with a pen stroke, the way to keep accounts in companies, so that you lose the ability to budget and keep accounts in a way that gives you a realistic opportunity to complete and restore the buildings that might have to fall due. We just have to look it in the eyes of everyone that many hospitals today don't look at all. Take, for example: Molde Hospital in More and Romesdal Here we have a huge investment need just to keep it up until you can build a new one. Such a principle will, in the future, automatically determine the decisions that individual undertakings will have to make. Like I said, Stortinget has a responsibility. The size has to take over that responsibility, and we do. We actually take into account both the future healthcare system and the hospitals, but at the same time we also need to be involved in fully financing this in such a way that it does not go beyond patient treatment. This must be clear: this must be financed in such a way that patient treatment is not affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e350	Ola D. Glow has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e353	I hope that the Minister of Health will give me an answer on this matter if even the opening balance sheet is not necessary to have an overview. It's going to be exciting to see what the Riksrevision thinks about some of these things in the fullness of time. I believe that the Government is now obfuscating and covering the realities, both in terms of the operating base of hospitals and specialist health services, and the opportunities to meet the challenges of future health care will require economically and otherwise. Now, however, we get, and it's joyous, a kindness here, and people take responsibility inwardly: we might have to give more money to the health sector! I and the Center Party have been saying that for a long time. We have not wasted money on health companies, for which I have sometimes been accused. We have tried to put resources and frameworks into which it should be possible to operate. If we are to have an up-to-date specialist health service, good hospitals and adequate emergency medical care, there has to be a sufficient economy, and there has to be a predictable economy. The predictable economy won't be there if we're going to do as the government suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e362	The representative Kristoffersen listed some of these major projects and said that they would not see the light of the day if we had had the government's proposal to close the accounts. I cannot, with my best will, understand in what way these things should relate, that the clearance of accounts should have had meaning. What matters is what financial resources are available to finance. It's like in a private enterprise, it's the income flow that decides and not the depreciation. Depreciation only affects accounting profit or loss, and not what ultimately is income. In a health company, where we don't have taxes, in my opinion, this is completely meaningless. As far as part of the posts is concerned, in my opinion, they are characterized by mixing things together. It is the financial resource of the regional health undertaking that determines its ability to invest. It's not the depreciation that decides. It is now also the case in the hospital service that you cannot use a penny more than once. If you intend to use it for depreciation, you cannot also use it to increase operations, to provide health services. You can just use it for one of the things. So if you're going to spend $2 billion more on depreciation, you're going to have to spend $2 billion on depreciation. Then you cannot also use them to increase the operation. It simply means that the operational challenge, the challenge of switching to operations, is exactly the same if we initially add NOK 2 billion to increased depreciation. It's essentially the financial resource that we make available, that determines this. I want to repeat what I think, and as I understand it, some of the representatives of the majority actually say, that if you think that the principle of accounting law is to be fully applied in the context of financial statements, as in private companies, it would also be very natural to propose to grant the amount to comply with such a rule. It is absolutely one of the options available, but it therefore requires NOK 2 billion for something that will not increase operations and that will not change the migration challenge we have, and that the Storting has instructed me to make sure that its balance sheet requirements become reality by the end of 2005 in four of the enterprises, and by the end of 2006 in Health South.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e371	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e374	What this case has revealed is that health care establishments have not had the necessary means to care for buildings, equipment and new acquisitions. These means have necessarily had to be taken from the operation and therefore the production provided by the Council of State is not going to be correct. At the moment, funds are being made available for new acquisitions, for the care of buildings and for equipment, it is releasing funds. This means that these means of operating must not be used on this, as at present, or that in the worst case one must start selling away from areas that could have been used in the long term. Some of the developments you see now may remind you of Stalin's old five-year plans, where the cattle were slaughtered to maintain meat production. The problem with that way of dealing with it is that after five years there is no more meat to provide, because there is no buffer anymore. That is why, of course, we have to do this if we are to have a proper operation. These two things are connected. It doesn't matter to the Council of State to say anything about it. Operation is related to equipment acquisitions if one has to use operational means to acquire equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e381	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e397	I hope that we are now on our way into a watershed. In 2001, Stortinget adopted a new law on health registers. I had the pleasure of being a case rapporteur, and when we dealt with it in Stortinget – it was also a unanimous decision – the law became quite different from the two different governments had proposed. There was a lot of work in a matter that I believe was important in relation to privacy, but on which the media had little attention. In the present legislative proposition, the Government follows up the law in the spirit that the Storting adopted in its time, and I think that the Government should have compliments for it. I'm glad that even if there's a minor change in the law now, there's a whole social committee that's behind the attitude. The Health Register Act shall ensure that health information collected in a register is anonymised in such a way that it does not need to fear that highly sensitive personal data are being compromised. At the same time, the information contained in the register shall be available in such a way that an incident course for a person can be followed over time, without the person being identified by the person making use of the health information in question. This is called a pseudonymisation of personal data. Pseudonymisation must be irreversible. So it's not going to have to be able to be reprocessed. An irreversible pseudonymous register means that the health information is only to be processed in pseudonymous form. Furthermore, it is a fundamental condition for pseudonymous health records that the data are processed in such a way that no one other than the patient or the recipient is able to have access to both pseudonyms, identity and health information at the same time. The government is now proposing an amendment to Section 8 of the Health Register Act so that registers based on the law can also process health data in order to perform tasks under the Social Services Act. The background to the proposal is that the Social Services Act is not covered by the list in force in the Health Register Act today, and a register based on Section 8 of the Health Register Act can thus be per. date does not contain health information on the basis of which decisions are taken under the Social Services Act. This means that under the law in force, there is no right to set up a single register for all services in the care sector because, in relation to social service recipients, some information about them could not be used in the register. What is up-to-date is the so-called IPLOS registration from municipality to state. IPLOS means individual-based care and care statistics. This report was proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health as early as February 2000. In order for practical implementation to be possible, the law must therefore be amended as described. The Committee agrees with the amendment on the basis of the understanding that this does not alter the original intention and prerequisites of the law for the establishment of a health register. In addition to the amendment made in Section 8 of the Health Register Act, to which the Social Services Act is included in the list according to which laws a health register can be established, the Social Services Act is included in the list in Section 7 and Section 9. The other provisions of the Health Register Act remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e423	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e439	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e448	In this proposition, the government has proposed to introduce joint parental responsibility for cohabiting parents when the danger is recognised by the rules of Section 4 of the Children’s Act and the parents have signed a cohabitation declaration sent to the public register. About half of Norwegian children are born today by single parents. Since it was possible in 1998 to agree joint parental responsibility on the same form as for recognition of danger, there has been a significant increase in the number of such agreements. The change in the law results in a greater legal equality between children of cohabitants and married parents, and the main reason is the child’s best interests, and both mother and father take responsibility as parents. The solution is also easy to practice and will capture the vast majority of couples who are consensual. The proposal implies that the self-declaration of cohabitation by parents shall determine whether they are considered as cohabitants in relation to the establishment of joint parental responsibility. The Committee considers it important to facilitate joint parental responsibility also for cohabiting parents. The willingness and ability of parents to participate in care tasks will be positively influenced by the participation of both parents in parental responsibility. Studies show that cohabitation is less stable than marriage, and it is important to ensure the formal relationship between father and child. A cohabiting father has similar close relationships with the child as a married father. The civil status of parents should not determine the formal relationship between father and child in the cases where they live and live together. The child must be ensured as stable a parent as possible, regardless of the choice of civil status of his or her parents. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on Equality between Marriage and Cohabitation in Parental Responsibility. In two areas, the Committee distinguishes layers. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, believe that in the event of disagreement between mother and father as to fatherhood, the man's recognition of fatherhood is valid until any public determination of the danger has taken place. I expect the majority itself to justify its proposal. The minority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, do not want to change the rules for the determination of fatherhood. The minority believe that the mother is the closest to having knowledge of the child’s origin in cases where the cohabitants disagree on the danger. The minority believe that it is unfortunate, in relation to both inheritance and dependance, that there may be a disputed hazard that should apply until a safe hazard is established. With the majority's bill, the father's words are going to weigh more heavily, while mother is sitting with the burden of proof to clarify her father's danger, and this believes the minority is unreasonable. The other area in which the Committee has been divided is the question of determining the hazard and parental responsibility of assisted fertilisation. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, ask the Government to assess the determination of fatherhood and parental responsibility in the case of assisted fertilisation, and in these cases to allow cohabitation to be recognised as a father and to have parental responsibility in the same way as married couples, even if he is not a biological father of the child. I also expect the majority to present the proposal. The minority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, consider it unnecessary to make their own rules for danger and parental responsibility in the case of assisted conception, as they are today treated in the same way as other dangers and parental responsibility, both within and outside marriage. The law currently serves the purpose of equalizing children born by assisted fertilisation and natural conception. To the right, it is of benefit to parents that they do not have to explain the method of conception when the child is born and danger/parent responsibility is to be determined. The minority believe that the legislative proposal raises complex legal issues that are difficult to understand from. In the opinion of the Right and the Minority, there is no doubt that this proposal should have been thoroughly investigated and consulted in accordance with the usual legislative process. I refer to the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e480	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e483	Creating safe growing-up conditions, a secure family framework around the growth of children, is an important task. As legislators, we cannot take full responsibility for ensuring that all children have safe growing-up conditions. It's the parents themselves who do. What we can do is to set up the legal law, the support device, the welfare services, etc. to the extent that everyone in Norway succeeds in creating safe breeding conditions for its children, or that society may take responsibility where care fails. We know that today very many children live in different types of families than what has been traditional. Mother and father, who were married to each other and were married their whole lives, are probably still a happiness for some, but for very many, it's a similar happiness that it didn't turn out that way. Many live together, many are divorced, many live alone with mother, alone with father, or even with two women or two men. There are a lot of different things that are a family in our days, and then the law has to take that into account. Then we have to change the laws so that children feel safe for a new time. In marriage, fatherhood is very good. There it is that when the child is born into a marriage, Father est-rule applies, then Father is completely automatic. It's not like that in cohabitation. There's another type of juice coming into the picture. Many who live in cohabitation and feel it almost as if it were balanced, at least in terms of commitments, with a marriage, come to a childbirth in a situation where things are put to the test. Of course, in most cases we have good solutions, Mom and Dad are well-negotiated, and we're doing well. But there are some cases where this creates problems. We have to solve those problems. The majority in Stortinget must take responsibility for the fact that the law also takes account of it. It is therefore the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, that, when danger is known by father’s recognition of his danger, cohabiting parents can declare their civil status as cohabitants and thereby have joint parental responsibility for the common child. It should not be the case that an additional authorisation from the mother is required in order to have shared parental responsibility. It's completely unnecessary for Mom to have to sign that Dad is a father, when you've actually declared that you live in a cohabitation. It is equally fundamental, in our view, that we have declared a common-law relationship with that child, as if we had married. It should then be such that mother should not approve of such a hazard. It's old-fashioned. It is based on a time when families are so different. That's something that we have to change. The proposal to equalise parental responsibility in marriage and cohabitation has been adopted in the past. We've discussed this before. The government has not followed up what we actually proposed and was adopted in the Stortinget earlier, in the law that has been submitted. Then it was absolutely necessary for us to take it up in this setting and make sure that the law is also in line with what was adopted earlier. It would have been totally unnecessary for the government to take such a rematch. They could only have followed up what we've said before in the Stortinget, so it would have been an overall committee that now gave children birth into cohabitation the same legal security that children born into marriage have, and that gave father and mother the same legal framework as if they had been married.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e498	Father is father; and mother is mother, Trond Viggo Turgersen sings in one of his children's songs. Yes, and now we're closer to the truth than we've been for a long time. It's actually a brand day for all the kids in Norway today, when we give dad the opportunity to recognize his father without mom having to admit it, and that we give cohabiting joint parental responsibility. We are also closer to the UN Children's Convention, which says that all children have the right to both their parents. So we're on the right track. In fact, the Progress Party had probably seen that we could have automatically shared parental rights at the birth of a child even, regardless of the form of life, but time is not yet. There's no majority for that. Since I promoted that proposal earlier this year, we'll have to wait until the harvest to promote it again, but we won't give up. The children are no longer dependent on their parents' way of life to make sure they have a father, and that's the children's right we want to focus on. Our society is constantly evolving. Yes, sometimes it goes so fast that I feel that I have to hold on. The more important it is that we adapt laws and regulations to the new and modern society, and that we give people the right to choose a form of life, but without going to the expense of the children. The Progress Party does not want equal treatment for cohabitants and spouses in terms of different rights, but we want every child born into the world to know who is the mother and who is the father. I'm going to tell a story that a father told me, about a young cohabiting couple waiting for their first child. The child had been relatively busy coming to the world. That's why no one was thinking about a form at the food clinic that had to be filled in, where my father recognized his father's father, and my mother approved it. It was simply not filled in any such form. So unfortunately it went as it goes with almost 50 pst. Of all the couples in Norway, they moved away after a few years. The level of conflict was reasonably high. When Father contacted him to get to a child agreement and to get together with his child, it turned out that since he had not signed a form, he had no rights with the child at all. So the child was left fatherless. This has been the source of an increased level of conflict between parents. Fortunately, there is now a positive trend in the child's right to both parents, and this is a step in the right direction, but we still have a way to go when it comes to automatically sharing parental rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e513	I fully agree with the representative of the Progress Party, who says this is a joyous day. We've come a little further on the legal certainty of children, and a little bit closer to the Children's Convention. We deal with the law on changes in the child law, common parental responsibility for cohabiting parents. The discussion has taken a long time because there has been disagreement in the committee, on which the rapporteur was involved, and because there have been major problems in drafting a legal text in line with the majority of the committee's opinion, it was right on the basis of the intention of the proposal. I am very pleased that we have now reached the goal of amending the law that takes care of the SV's suggestions in the family communication. This has been an important issue for SV, because joint parental responsibility for cohabitants will lead to greater legal certainty for the child. It is important to facilitate joint parental responsibility for cohabitants because it will result in greater equality between the children of cohabitants and the children of married couples. International Conventions on Human Rights for the Protection of Children provide maximum legal certainty. It is important to ensure the formal link between father and child. The civil status of parents should not determine the formal relationship between father and child in cases where both parents live with the child. This amendment is in line with the intention of ensuring that the child is as stable a parent as possible, regardless of whether his or her parents live together or are married. SV believes that when the danger is known by a father’s recognition of the danger, cohabiting parents may declare their civil status as cohabitants and thereby have shared parental responsibility for the common child. We do not want the mother to accept the father's recognition in writing. It's completely unnecessary for Mom to sign that Dad is a father. This proposal is not in line with the proposal to give cohabitants the right to parental responsibility in the same way as parents who live in marriage. Women may also refuse to sign the declaration of cohabitation, and then parents will not be liable even if their parents live together. There are countless examples of a father living with the child for many years, but when mother refuses to sign what the government parties are now giving up, the child has no rights with regard to father, and father has no rights with respect to the child. The legislative proposal now being promoted by the majority, on equalising parental responsibility in marriage and cohabitation, is a good proposal, and I am very pleased with it. We have spent a long time, but I believe that we have now come up with something that is completely in line with what was initially intended. It strengthens the legal certainty of both children and parents living in cohabitation. A small explanation to the case rapporteur, who called for a reason why we want this change in the law: It is of course because if mother refuses to sign, this child has no rights in relation to the father, and the father has no rights in relation to the child. That was exactly what we were looking for when we promoted this proposal. The next challenge posed by the rapporteur was why we propose that we: ‘only the Government assessed and returned in an appropriate manner with an assessment of the determination of hazard and parental responsibility in the case of assisted conception.In these cases, the cohabitation father shall be able to be recognised as a father and to have parental responsibility in the same way as the spouse even if he is not a biological father to the child’. We are promoting this proposal because it is in line with what we are saying, that cohabitants and couples should be treated equally in terms of parental responsibility. So, a child born with a donor father into a cohabitation should have the same rights as a child born with a donor father into a marriage. It's that simple. Then I hope that the rapporteur has received the explanation she needed. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e545	Today, Stortinget adopts a law change that will give thousands of unmarried fathers more rights than they have today. The assumption is that they recognize the danger and declare in writing that they live with the child’s mother. If the unmarried fathers do this, both men and women in cohabitation will have joint parental responsibility – in line with marriage. They also retain this parental responsibility if the consensual relationship would later break up. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that children's rights are guaranteed, regardless of whether their parents are married or cohabitants. The name of the child, whether to be baptized, the school in which to attend, when to issue a passport, move abroad or consent to medical intervention, are examples of decisions to be taken by both parents. This is important for both children and parents, and it will help to strengthen the relationship between children and fathers. The child is guaranteed the most stable parental contact possible, regardless of the choice of marital status of his or her parents. Children's legislation has several objectives. One goal is to equate children born to cohabiting parents with children born to married parents. Equal opportunities for parents are another objective. The amendment of the law adopted today brings us one step closer to both of these objectives. Children need contact with both parents. Today, contact with mother is greatest, while father is less accessible. It is important to increase the relationship between fathers and children. The key to greater equality in the home seems to be right here, with the grandchildren. Studies show that if infants get more time with their children at an early age, understanding of the relationship with their children increases. That's good equality policy. American human scientist Michael Kimmel uses the argument that opportunities result from rights to explain why Norwegian men take more care in the home than American men do. The amendment of the law proposed by the Government, to which the Committee has joined, is a right step in that direction. Fathers living with their mother are granted the right to parental responsibility, which in turn gives them the opportunity to play an active role in the lives of their children. In terms of paternity determination, the Christian People's Party believes it is important that neither mother nor father be disconnected from that process. In case of disagreement about the danger, the public will determine the hazard according to Section 5 of the Children's Act after the law of the day. We believe that this is appropriate for both sides. The proposal of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and SV shifts the burden of proof to the mother, who in the worst case would have to live with the fact that ‘wrong father’ is stated until the opposite is proven. This believes the Christian People's Party is misunderstanding of equality policy. The Christian People's Party believes that it is unnecessary to make self-regulatory rules for danger and parental responsibility in the case of assisted conception, as these cases are currently being treated in the same way as determination of danger and parental responsibility, both within and outside marriage by natural conception. The law is currently fulfilling the objective of equalising children born by assisted and natural conception.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e562	In Norway, it is almost as common today that children at birth have unmarried parents as their parents are married. However, the vast majority of single - parent children live with both father and mother. A father who lives with his children has an equally close relationship with the children, regardless of whether he is married or cohabiting with the mother. Today, when Odelsting decides that cohabiting parents should have shared parental responsibility for common children, this implies a greater degree of legal equality and equality between children of cohabitants and children of married parents. Both the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights are based on the fact that children of cohabiting parents and married parents are to be as equal as possible, which this legislative decision will contribute in a positive way. The government wants to facilitate a greater level of equality in this area when parents live under the same roof, and hopes that parents’ willingness to participate in care tasks will be positively influenced by parental responsibility. The fact that consensual relationships are less stable than marriage also makes it important to ensure this formal relationship between father and child under parental responsibility. The questions addressed here today have had a long way to go. Already in 1995, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs sent out a proposal that cohabiting parents should be identified in the light of a declaration of cohabitation. However, this proposal met with so much resistance in the consultation round that it was not followed up as a legislative amendment. Later, the Samboercommittee proposed in its recommendation that cohabiting parents be given joint parental responsibility, which was also followed up in the Government's family communication, which was dealt with by the Stortinget in November 2003. I note that the majority of the committee is in favour of amending the Children's Act also in the area of pharmacovigilance. Until now, agreement between parents has been a prerequisite for the establishment of a hazard based on recognition. Therefore, recognition as a form of hazard determination has been conditional on voluntary and consensus from both father and mother. By abandoning this principle, it is possible to also allow for a greater margin of error in the determination of hazard. I have also noticed that the number of committees is in favour of supplementing the proposal that the self-declaration of cohabitation should be proof that the parties live together, that the common address in the public register alone should be evidence of cohabitation. Thus, the common address in the public register without a declaration will give joint parental responsibility and access to the establishment of a hazard without the involvement of the mother, however, in such a way that, if mother opposes it, it shall have a public obligation to determine the hazard. I take note of the Committee's position. Today's societies look different in many areas now than when the Children's Act was passed more than 20 years ago. Several women participate in the labour market, while fathers carry out care tasks in the home to a much greater extent than in the past. Cohabitation has become a common form of life. It is important that the law also adapts to these major changes in society. I believe that by introducing common parental responsibility for cohabiting parents, we make child law a law that is better adapted to the way today's families choose to set up their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e577	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e590	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e598	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heidi Sørensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, andproposal No. 2, from Morten Højlund on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e720	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 25 is replaced by the following:Section 25. Justification and notification Chapters IV and V of the Administrative Act do not apply to decisions on safety clearance or authorisation.The person who has been assessed for safety clearance has the right to be made aware of the result. In the event of a decision being taken, the unsolicited party shall be informed of the outcome and of the remedies available if the decision was negative. Reasons for a decision shall be given at the same time as the outcome of the clearance proceedings. He/she shall be entitled to all information relating to his/her own person, but shall not require justification to the extent that reasons cannot be given without disclosing information such as: (a) they are of importance for the safety of Norway or its allies, the relationship with foreign powers or other vital national security interests; (b) they are of importance for source protection; (c) they must be considered as impractical in the interests of their health or their relationship with persons close to them; (d) they must be made aware of technical devices, production methods, business analyses and calculations and other business secrets when they are of such a nature as to enable others to exploit them in their commercial activities. In addition, the clearing body shall draw up an internal simultaneous justification covering all relevant matters, including those referred to in the third subparagraph.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e808	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e855	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e865	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e875	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e883	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e906	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 15 June 2001 93 on health enterprises, etc. Paragraph 43 of the new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The King may lay down special provisions for the accounting of non-current assets for which undertakings acquire the ownership, both in the context of the assumption of responsibilities for public tasks and in the course of transformation, as set out. [[Health Business Act]] § 50.IIThe law applies from the time the King decides.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e989	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e999	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1007	During the debate, Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1010	I would like to make a brief explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1017	Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1020	This concerns proposal B, which SV wants to turn into a transmission proposal, because the Council of State says this has now been included in I. I haven't been asked the question to the Progress Party, but I see it nodded...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1025	Then the President will draw attention to it is a proposal that goes on to the Stortinget. So I suggest that the representative take it up when it comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1080	The right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will oppose the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1127	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 8 April 1981 7 on children and parents are amended as follows: [[Kinderelova]] Paragraph 35 is replaced by the following: When parents are not married or have reported that they live together after the second piece, their mother has parental responsibility alone. Combining parents get parental responsibility together when fathering has been committed in accordance with Section 4 and parents in a notification to the public register declare that they live together. However, parents may, by agreement, notify the public register that they should have parental responsibility together or that the father should have parental responsibility on his own. Have unmarried parents the parental responsibility together, but the child is only stuck with the one, the rules of Section 37 apply. Paragraph 39 is replaced by the following: The agreement or decision on parental responsibility shall be notified to the public register. When the public register is notified that parents are living together and that the father has passed in accordance with Section 4, they shall record that parents have parental responsibility together. The parental responsibility agreement that has not been notified to the public register is not valid.IIThe law applies from the time the King decides.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1167	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1177	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1189	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower-2.ana.ud1817e1200	There is no record.
