ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e35	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e51	In this position, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs makes proposals on the state budget for 2006 under the framework and the chapters allocated to the Committee at its meeting on 2 November 2005, see: Inner. S. No 3 for 2005-2006. The budget setting also includes the institutions that are subject to the Storting. This is the case with the National Audit Office, the Ombudsman of the Stortingen Administration and the Swedish Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Control Committee. On behalf of the committee, I would like to be satisfied with the job being done by these institutions. In addition, I would like to mention that we have also been responsible for the Royal House. The observer will see that there is a difference between the proposal in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 and the proposal in St.prp. Appendix No 1 for 2005-2006. This is not caused by a big difference between the two proposals put forward. There are various proposals for changes in the accounting of VAT in central government. In St. prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 it was proposed to introduce a net scheme for the budgeting and accounting of VAT. Therefore, the expenditure framework was adjusted for the expected payment of VAT in 2006. The sum of the downward adjustments was proposed on a central basis for paid VAT. The conversion would be budget neutral. In St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 1 for 2005-2006, it was proposed that the net budgeting of VAT should not be introduced. Against that background, it was proposed to bring down the adjustment on the operating and investment items to which it is subject. The Committee would highlight the role of the Ombudsman in controlling the public administration, so that one does not wrong the individual citizen. The Committee believes it is important that the Ombudsman can further develop this role, make it more effective and secure the legal protection of individuals. The Court of Auditors has received a brief comment from the Committee this year. As in the past, the Committee will maintain that the Riksrevision has a particularly important role to play in verifying that the funds provided by the Stortinget are used as expected. It is in the interest of the nation that the work carried out by the National Audit Office remains highly professional, and that in 2006 funds will also be used to keep this up. As you can see from the setting, it is a co-consultant committee that is behind this draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e72	I asked for the floor as the rapporteur-general for the Riksrevision. It is quite right, as the chairman of the committee said, that there is a brief comment, and I would like to make a few comments on what is often the situation when there is a brief comment and the committee says that otherwise there are no comments and join the draft budget. That really means everything's fine! It's kind of a stamp of approval that what you're talking about, this business, it's going the way it's going. And that's definitely the case with the Riksrevision. The control of government and government has become much, much better. The Monitoring Committee has just held a seminar in which a lawyer, Sejersted, who has written an 800-page doctoral thesis on the control of the Stortinge, pointed out that, particularly in the 1990s and in the last 10, 15 or 17 years, the control activities of the Stortinge have increased significantly, the activity has increased dramatically. From the past to having only a protocol committee as an additional committee for the ordinary committees – i.e. representatives who, in addition to a committee set up in a protocol committee, received in 1993 a control and constitution committee, which has sole control. And it's become an important committee in Stortinget. It has been given increased attention to control. The National Audit Office has dramatically increased its administrative audit throughout the 1990s, and we have had dramatic political issues in the United Kingdom, coming from the National Audit Office and its work. We are now probably in 12-14 management audit reports that are dealt with in the Storting every year, against in previous times only Document No. 1, which did not receive much consideration in the Protocol Committee at that time. Then you might ask, is this dramatic development in increased control and attention to control something that just happens by itself? Is there a system that makes this happen, or is it the effort of individuals? The reason I asked for the word is that it's not always just that things happen automatically in a system, sometimes there are some people who have been driving forces in creating the new quotation. That's also true in this case. I can refer to the fact that when we were given the Committee on Control and Constitution by the Storting, the dramatic increase and emphasis was a regulatory committee that gave its position in October 1990, and that regulatory committee was chaired by the then Vice President of the Storting, Bjarne Dark Eidem, who was thus the driving force for the Committee on Control. Shortly thereafter, Bjarne Dark Eidem was appointed by the Stortinget to the National Auditor, and he has been a driving force leading the National Auditor's College for a dramatically better organization and a greater degree of activity in the National Auditor's, where he has now been chief for about 15 years. Much of the increased control activity undertaken by the national Parliament in the last 15 years has at least been a major contributory cause for our excellent national auditor during this period. As he goes off in a few weeks and presents his last case as a National Auditor now, I would like to give tribute to National Auditor Bjarne Dark Eidem, who has been the driving force in increasing the good control work of the National Assembly over the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e83	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 464]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e99	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government and the main speakers from each party group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e110	Creating good welfare and security is the most important task of the Government and the red-green majority on the Storting. That is why combating crime is one of our most important welfare tasks, because it creates security. The government will have an active, comprehensive fight against crime. We will ensure that it is better prevented, clarified, reacted more quickly and rehabilitated better. If we are to do this, police, justice and criminal justice must be strengthened. Through the Government's draft budget, we clearly show that the fight against crime is high on our political agenda. But the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party also believe that good welfare in itself contributes to the fight against crime. That's why we're very satisfied that a total of NOK 5.7 billion is transferred to the municipalities. This money will rust up the welfare of municipalities, build up where it's torn down, give room to bet on school, strengthen child protection, re-open closed youth clubs – measures that we know are important to prevent young people from starting a criminal career. The area of justice is the policy area of the major links. This is why the Government’s strong commitment to eradicating poverty is also an important measure to combat crime. In a Northern Lights article earlier this fall, Operational Leaders in the Trom Police District, Svein Ivar Nikolaisen, describe one of their strongest encounters with poverty in Tromsø and the strong connection there is often between poverty and crime. He described how the police were looking for drugs after getting tips about a larger party that would be in a house. Behind the house door they found more, telling Nikolaisen to the North Light: ‘A pair rusted. An open window that let snow in. The snow landed on an old cardboard spoon that stood placed under the window. Up in the box was the little baby." The operations manager shall further state: ‘It is not criminal to be poor. But we often face poverty when we seek crime. For economic poverty can lead to crime.’ This picture is also confirmed by research teams. The Fafo report documenting the living conditions of prisoners has often been referred from this pulpit, and it points to exactly the same relationship. This shows that good supply in psychiatry, health care and active labour market policies are important for a comprehensive fight against crime. The Government's draft budget proposes measures of DKK 0.5 billion aimed at reducing poverty. These are actions targeting children, young people, the unemployed. There is a strong increase in the appropriations for medically assisted rehabilitation, which will lead to an increase in treatment capacity, to mention something. This package also includes a strengthening of offers to prisoners in prisons, to which I will return. I must be allowed to congratulate the Committee on the orderly and constructive budgetary work. We strongly agree on the main political lines of justice policy, although we disagree on the size of the appropriations for the various parts of the criminal justice chain. In its general observations, the Committee has demonstrated that the Government will have an active and comprehensive fight against crime. The Committee points out that the security of a society is a welfare issue and shall be a public responsibility. We are also pleased that prevention work strengthens the government’s commitment to the state budget in 2006. From the red-green side, we believe that the government has put forward a good and balanced proposal to strengthen the judicial budget. Police are getting an increase of 87.7 million. In addition to the draft budget for Mr Bondevik II. I noticed that the Police Joint Union also expresses joy at this increase. The Committee emphasises that the police should have a local anchor at the county offices throughout the country. The police are dependent on having high legitimacy and trust among the population. Then, proximity, availability and presence are key key factors. Today too little is discovered, solved and researched. This applies both to everyday crime and organised crime. The Soria Moria Declaration stresses that the Government should intensify its efforts to combat economic crime and strengthen its investigation and management efforts to detect the black economy, including money laundering. The Committee has noted that the Government proposes to strengthen the staffing of Ecocrim with a total of 11 annual works and 6.2 million. In addition to the draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. Together with the development of a new computer system in Ecocrime and the proposal to strengthen the tax base, this will significantly strengthen the fight against economic crime. The Committee has also noted the signals provided by the Minister of Justice regarding the increased use of DNA as evidence of the submission of the DNA selection. This is a matter that the Committee looks forward to coming to Stortinget. In the past week, there have been several cases in which women have been killed or attempted to be killed by men in close relationships. I am very concerned about the serious developments we are now seeing, and will stress that the fight against violence against women and children must be one of the police's most important priority tasks. A killing is the most extreme form of violence and often represents the end of a long series of assaults. Everyone, including women and children, has the right and the right to live their lives in security and freedom. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the fight against violence in close relations is an important point, and I am therefore pleased that the Government prioritises this work high in its draft budget. The Committee supports the Government's intention to make the provision of assistance and treatment to violent perpetrators nationwide and will strengthen the allocation of the organisation Alternative to Violence. The Workers’ Party and SV also consider that the government’s initiation of a test project with the forced use of an alarm to alert victims of violence of the presence of violent perpetrators is important in order to ensure the safety of women at risk of violence. The Committee would also like to strengthen the efforts of victims who have been victims of violence. Violence against women and children is a serious social problem. We are therefore in favour of the Government setting up a wide-ranging public body to investigate the position of women who have been subjected to rape and other sexualized violence. In this context, I would also ask the Minister of Justice to consider whether this panel should extend its mandate to children who are subjected to sexualised violence. The Committee is also pleased that in its supplementary proposal, the Government proposes to grant 2 million. kr for a pilot project with Barnas Hus in Norway. Children exposed to sexual abuse will receive faster and more professional help, and relatives could be better cared for. The Committee also stresses that it is very important that police and prosecution authorities prioritise sufficient resources to investigate and investigate any cases following the seizure of the child abuse images made during Operation Pendulum and Enea. In the case of the judicial system, the Government is committed to facilitating the speedy handling of cases in the courts. This has been noted by the Committee, and we are in favour of the Government's proposal to increase the appropriations allocated to the courts by 5 million. kr. The Committee points out that one of the main challenges in the criminal justice chain is to strengthen criminal justice. Today, there are almost as many people standing in a pay queue as those who pay for their punishment. In its supplementary draft budget, the Government strengthens the appropriations allocated to the criminal service by NOK 33.6 million in addition to the draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. The Committee points out that the many new measures imposed by the Government are important for the closure of the pay queue. For the Workers’ Party and the SV, it is important to address the reoccurrence problems in Norwegian prisons. Therefore, we are pleased that the Government has found room to increase the appropriations for education for prisoners by 21.3 million. kr, 2 million in prison library service. DKK and health services in prisons of 4.6 million. kr. Together, we have a strengthening of criminal services, if we include the budget of other departments, of 61.5 million. kr. It is clear that this is relevant to what the previously mentioned Fafo report has shown – that more than 40 pst. by prisoners, the primary school is the highest level of education completed and almost no higher education. Therefore, it is important to focus both on the content of the ransom and on the relationship with the individual on release. I am pleased that the Progress Party supports the red-green majority in that it will work for a transversal return guarantee after completion of the settlement, so that we can achieve more progress towards rehabilitation and behavioural change. Coastal safety has always been important for the population, both north and west. With the major challenges we face, with increased activity at sea, both in relation to oil extraction, shipping and fishing, it is important to ensure a good rescue service. The Committee therefore asks the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with a stepping-up plan for the deployment of bystanders in more rescue helicopters than the Sun. I expect this escalation plan to be presented to the Stortinget during the spring 2006 session. In its comments, the Committee stresses the importance of providing a good rescue service in the northern regions. Having a good rescue service requires not only good crew but also good flight equipment. The Norwegian rescue helicopters, with their competent crews, have saved lives and helped people in distress for over 30 years. The defence has provided the service and security for fishing and shipping industries and the coastal and inland population, and for many years there has been a job to find a worthy replacement for the Sea King helicopters that were deployed in the rescue work in Norway in 1973. The Committee calls for the process of acquiring new rescue helicopters to be followed up and clarified. We will create security by pursuing an active policy to combat crime. This budget is clear evidence that the Government prioritises an overall and balanced effort across the justice sector. Through good communities, we build a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e170	I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee for a thorough and thorough review of the challenges and opportunities ahead of the Government and Government parties. It's very good that you're as clear as you are here. Prioritisation, I think, is something on which the underlying agencies are concerned, and which they want to be clear from the political authorities. When it comes to the Oslo police situation for next year, they've been put on a real cut of $30 million. kr, and since priorities have been clearly identified in relation to the many sectors, I would like to know: what is the Oslo Police not going to do next year that they have the opportunity to do this year? I would like to appreciate whether the representative Bjørnface can be specific in relation to giving control signals in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e177	I want to start by thanking you for a good question. The government has signaled that you want to continue the work of making Oslo a safe city. That is why an increase in the Oslo Police budget of 6 million has been introduced. kr in addition to the draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. We believe that it will be sufficient to maintain the level of activity that is currently in the Oslo police force. Then, as the head of the Justice Committee, I will finally be allowed to say: we have no members from Oslo in the committee, so I feel that we have a special responsibility to ensure that there is a good enough focus on the situation in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e186	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the Committee for a thorough review. From the Right, we have noted with interest that the government fraction has relatively few own comments in the budgetary position. We interpret this positively to the point that there is a broad dissension about the justice policy that was pursued under the Bondevik II regime. Can the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten confirm this understanding that the government fraction does not have its own comments on the political basis of the previous government? So I have a question number. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government parties, with the Workers' Party at the head, refer to the transfers to the municipalities and describe the appropriations as a crime prevention measure, which she was also involved in her contribution. My question to the representative of Bjørnflaten is: How will she follow up the municipalities to ensure that those funds are actually used in such a way that they have a crime prevention effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e195	With regard to the first question from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker, I would like to point out the strong focus on the fight against crime that the Red-Green majority has highlighted in the Soria Moria Declaration, and also the strong focus that the fight against crime and the justice sector has received in the supplementary draft budget presented by the Government. We are very concerned that we should have an active and comprehensive fight against crime. We're saying we're going to prevent better, we're going to solve more, we're going to investigate more, and we're going to rehabilitate better than today. We have a very strong and heavy emphasis on the importance of combating crime, because it is an important welfare issue. As for the question of following up the municipalities, I have addressed this with the Minister of Justice, and I expect the ministry to follow the situation in relation to what the municipalities do in this area. I believe it is very important that we strengthen the work being done in the municipalities, and it is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that we will look at the possibility of introducing police councils into the municipalities for better cross-border cooperation between the police and various local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e202	There are some parties that are not represented in the Justice Committee, and I regret that when I understand how pleasant the committee is, as it is now expressed several times. Since I am an Oslo representative, I am also pleased that it was mentioned that a particular responsibility was to be taken for Oslo. So to the question of the committee leader: in the introduction she was concerned with the causes of crime, among other things. the importance of prevention and a good service provision in general. It could almost sound like if not everything was in place in a municipality, it could be almost excused that criminal acts happened. I am committed to asking the chairman of the committee whether it is not that each person should take responsibility for his own actions, regardless of the economic or social status he might have. And where does it go in the event that the committee's chairman was at the beginning of his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e209	I want to thank you for the question from the Seven. It's a question that really opens up a fairly broad and interesting discussion, which I think we could have been doing for a very long time. The fact that we stress the need for an important welfare policy does not, of course, mean that anyone can avoid the responsibility they have in relation to their own actions. It is, of course, an important principle for us in the fight against crime. But at the same time, I was also concerned that the area of justice is precisely the area of the large contexts. We see a direct relationship between, for example: drug abuse and crime, poverty and crime, homelessness and crime. That is why it is very important in this area to focus on the whole criminal chain, the whole welfare issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e216	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e220	This is the day to highlight the ambitions you actually have for the next year of operation in the justice sector. It is time to confirm the leadership and decisions that the Committee has decided to be guiding, while also hoping that some of the political signals coming from this pulpit will be included in the Department of the Council of State and assessed – for example. how sensible it may be to listen to the Storting for a while. This is probably the most important debate of the year. Although the Committee sometimes has many individual issues of great importance, it is today that we put the overall leadership and structures in place to achieve the objectives we want. We have just received a new government, which has taken some important steps in its additional proposition in relation to wanting a different rotation than the one that the previous government had. At the same time, I think there will be some challenges associated with having a shift in political direction. Firstly, it will challenge the organisations involved in doing a job on behalf of the sector, but it will also challenge people who have opinions about the fields concerned. In this way, the political dynamics function in a good and sensible way. I think the new government has created great expectations out there. I think a lot of people have expectations that now everything is going to be so much better, to use a term that doesn't necessarily come from today's government, but which nevertheless is a good quote to look back on. I also believe that the opportunities for the sector are great. I even think that the challenges are still there and are going to lie there for a long time to come. But the goal must always be that you actually take the things you think are important, and that you have to give priority to all the good things you would like to do. In this way, the undersigned looks forward to finding out where the Minister of Justice wants to go as a skipper in the new Justice Shoot in the Government. I think it is important for the Minister of Justice here to be able to grasp the importance of the sector, and that he takes the necessary steps and the necessary fights within the Government to get to that very thing – because it is a fact that the justice sector is one of the pillars of our democracy. If we have a state without trust in the judiciary, in the police and in the criminal justice system, we have a bad state – basically a bad society. It's not like that with us, but it also requires that we keep focus on it, and that we are conscious of the goals and wishes we have. A natural follow-up question will then be: Is it possible with today's budget? Is it possible with the draft budget available? Some of us would say, well, well, this is a little bit thin in some places. And others say, well, this is good, that's what we got, and we have to live with that. The last one is probably what the government has concluded with, because I think there are things that you've wanted to do, but that you haven't actually done yet. There are a lot of people who are concerned about this. We noted this in the committee at the hearings on the budget. There were some heavy players. The trade unions of the police, of the prisoners and the employees of the prisons were there, and there were some others. And to reflect: One of those who was there from the Criminal Organization, talked about their working conditions and said, "We have no money and no employees." The latter may be a natural consequence of the first, but it says something about some people's working conditions that are tougher than others. At the same time, they're doing a job, and there's a lot of respect for it, at my discretion. So I think some of the strength in this sector is diversity – all those committed who want to contribute. You're going to have a lot of respect for that, and you're going to have to take that into account. In this way, I am very pleased that the Government has found the opening to strengthen measures like Way Back, former Life After Atonement, and the Barm Project of the Church's Social Service. But when that's said, I'm disappointed that no room has been found to do the same with the Stine Sofie Foundation. If you look at the background, both for the establishment of the foundation and for the narrow, but nevertheless vulnerable, target group they work for, I have to respectfully say that I think it's strange that you haven't found room for it. I think it's a blow in the face of those who are members there. I think far on the road it's incomprehensible. But I expect the Minister of Justice and the Government parties here too to be conscious of their priorities and possible downsides, and that these will stand up politically. Another point that's interesting is the Riksrevision's insight into what we're doing. I have just read Document No. 3:14 and Document No 3:15, which is the Riksrevision's review of the criminal chain and the criminal code – I assume that the current government and the state council here have some challenges in the future. There is no doubt that you point out some things that show that we per person. today is not where we should have been. And we're not even going to drive in comparison to actually not being able to catch things that Stortinget has asked for. In that way, there's a lot of work to do. Of other positive things, I'm glad that the government is now going in to support a central funding of DNA analyses. This is a topic that former Storberget and the undersigned have worked a lot on. I now see that the Great Mountain as the Council of State is taking care of it, and I appreciate it very much. I think it's absolutely necessary. I think it can help to restore some of the overall trust in the system, not least in relation to those who are exposed to so-called everyday crime, so that those who commit it can also be corrected, and you can reveal who it is. I think that's good. Another thing that is positive is that the Committee agrees that legal certainty should be looked at more in terms of autopsy and such. There has been a worrying development in that they have decreased and decreased, and the State Health Authority has even suggested that it may have been committed killing without being able to reveal it because of the lack of legal certainty of autopsy. I think this is positive. The chairperson of the Committee was at the heart of another of the justice sector’s children, namely the Rescue Service. I believe that the committee is initially gathered that it is one of the narrow areas, but perhaps one of the most important. For those who need help, it is undoubtedly the most important thing! That is why it is good to continue to focus on this in order to ensure that all bases in Norway are put in place, and, of course, I hope that I will also put the base in place in the West. When we had the matter up two to three years ago, I understood that there was unanimity for the base to go up, and that we were dependent on having a base there. I hope that it will come into place, and I hope that the Council of State and the Government parties will now maintain the pressure on this. Of course you're dependent on a good tool in that way. The chairman of the Committee was concerned with the new rescue helicopters. It's clear there's going to be a quantum leap when we get new helicopters – someone who's looking forward to a clarification here. Which type of helicopter you choose, the government will come back and make suggestions. But it's important that we get a clarification. It is a paradox that those who fly in the North Sea and elsewhere have better equipment than what the Defense partially operates with today. That's what I'm worried about. The chairman of the committee was very proud of the defense and the job that the defense has done, and I'm fully committed to that. But it's a fact that we have a service on Svalbard that is not run by the Defense, and I think the job they stand for is reaping as much recognition as the Defense does. If we're going to give honey, I think we should pay homage to the whole sector. The hub in the Rescue Service is, in my opinion, the main rescue centres, and they do a formidable job by coordinating things. I hope that the Council of State and the Government parties, together with us, will help maintain the focus on this in order to ensure that the capacity and knowledge they have is preserved. They put their trust in other voluntary teams and organisations, such as avalanche dogs, mountain rescue groups and others who set up when the crisis is there, and in that way want to contribute. That's what I think is positive – once again, diversity is a success factor. Something else that might also be a challenge for the state council in the future is what is happening around Svalbard and in the fishing zone as to who can enforce the law, what law applies up there, and what back cover you have. There is probably also a need to look at the relationship between defence, coastguard and police in this. In the ‘Elektron’ case, there were some people who suggested – whether it is right or not, I do not know – that the defense considered drilling ‘Elektron’ with defence forces. If that's right, as some claim, I think it could be alarming. I'm glad we didn't, and I hope it was just a rumor. I am glad that things were handled politically here, because I think that this was the only thing that could lead to the Russians accepting it. Something else I think they would have reacted enormously strongly to. So here you have to balance rice and roses. I think you should be very aware of how to do things, to ensure that you do not end up with a conflict that escalates, but that you rather look at solutions for the benefit of both parties involved – Russia and Norway in this context. That's what I think I'm completely about to do. Furthermore, I think the government has to go in and look at what's related to emergency law. We have to go up a frontier to see if today's distinction between justice and defence is reasonable. If not, we must take the necessary action here. So a few words about what the Progress Party proposes in its alternative state budget. We believe, of course, that the framework for the sector is far too small. We would have wanted a much larger allocation to the police, it would have been an advantage. Although the government is contributing positively – they should – we think there is a need to do much more. We register, among other things: that the input from the Joint Police Association shows that there is still a great deal to be done, and that they are also concerned about the new tasks that are being imposed on them. They believe that the tasks are not fully financed, which means that they have to go at the expense of other things. We have also proposed an investment budget. It has rejected the Government Parties and the Government, on the grounds that it is to be given priority in the respective police districts. It is possible that it makes sense, but it means – I don't know if I can say it – that there must be a choice between plague and cholera. What's the least unpleasant to do? I believe that here we needed a national, common promise not least to get up-to-date technical equipment. It is possible that the districts should take this, but then we have to look at the framework we actually give them, so that they have that opportunity. If not, this is an evil circle. I believe that the Council of State remembers back to 2004, when he himself was involved in the budgetary conciliation. Then the police director said, "We're not being irresponsible, but we're driving all the way across the border." So it was on the basis of a budgetary settlement between the then government and the Workers' Party. I expect the Council of State has no desire to experience similar statements from the police director during the current period. But we'll see what happens. Something else that I'm also a little surprised about, is with regard to our proposal to set up an agent for crime victims. I recorded that the committee leader talked about taking into account victims of violence – women and children who are victims of violence. We are then a little surprised that you can't help looking at such a scheme – I accept that you don't want to take it on a tight arm, but you might have an opinion about it, you might have seen if it could fit into the thinking and working to get an active and good care for victims and relatives in Norway. But so far, I have recorded that they have turned their thumb down, and it's a little surprising when there's been a very big focus on it at the same time. Of course, we have some other repeaters, who go on with the charge on the vehicle. For us, it is still incomprehensible that we have a full charge on police vehicles, while we do not have it on stretchers, ambulances and fire trucks. Even the taxi industry has a reimbursement system that is significantly better than that of the police. It's possible there's a logic behind this, but it's hard to see, at least from my point of view. And then, in the setting, it's actually a mistake. Proposal No. 8. by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10, so I'm asking that it be corrected. It is, of course, a good proposal – that is possible, that is why it is repeated – but it is probably a once-in-a-lifetime promotion. I expect the Stortinget to deal with this: Proposal No. 10 should be deleted. As far as the vote is concerned, of course, the Progress Party will support its own proposals, and we will support the proposals we have with the Right. We're also going to support the proposal from the Left that's out there, and that I expect will be taken up the page. Otherwise, we are going to vote against the other proposals that have been promoted – and with this, I consider our proposals to have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e269	The representative Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e272	As a child, we played with monopoly money, or gambling money, if we wanted to – we bought both houses and hotels, and I think I also built prisons in a game. I'm sure the representative Ellingen did the same. The difference between us is enough that now I know the difference between the money for gambling/monopoly money and real money. Policy is to prioritise within the framework, it is not to expand the frame after your own heads. If the Progress Party is to prioritise within the real frames, the limits that apply as agreed by the Storting, what will be the result? What, then, had it looked like for the justice sector? Had it e.g. would there be anything to rehabilitate? Another factor is that the Progress Party always cuts the alcohol fees — dramatic cuts, in fact. At the same time, the Progress Party shows that they are the party that takes crime most seriously. How does this relate? The fact is, 70 pst. by all chosen actions performed in rushes. Does not the Progress Party see that a slightly restrictive alcohol policy will lead to an increase in crime, or does the Progress Party feel that there is no connection between alcohol, alcohol and crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e279	I thank you for the question, which I thought was timely and interesting. It's like you have the opportunity in this system to say yes and no to things. The framework that is before me today from the majority must be allowed, on behalf of the Progress Party, to say no, it is too bad, it is too little. If one compares it to our alternative, one sees that we've probably been a little bit more generous than the government parties are. So the replicator takes up challenges in relation to alcohol, alcohol legislation and attitudes. I must be allowed to refer to a statement in the Consumer Inspectors yesterday that the Storting has changed the alcohol legislation so that young people under the age of 18 can now receive up to 22 pst. It was actually a monotonous big thing that was behind it. So if that's how the representative is concerned about us, maybe you should look a little bit in your own rows before you criticize others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e288	The progressing party describes a situation where they want to spend more money for most purposes. That's also what Ellingen has called for here. And then we see in parallel that there are groups in this community that are really coming out bad. We have recently been exposed in the media to children disappearing from asylum recipients without anyone being able to trace them. The Foreign Affairs Directorate lacks funds, and the police lack funds to find out what their fate is. Just in the area where the most vulnerable of us all, namely the children, suffer so much congestion that in worst cases they are killed, we see that the Progress Party in relation to refugee aid kittens with 1 139 million. kr. I would like to hear how Ellingen will defend a party that makes it so that they want more for everyone, but at the same time is not willing to protect the weakest of us all. How has the Progress Party now intended to address this after cutting in this area, an area that police officer Torkjel Rygnestad today describes in the evening post: ‘I don’t think the backers look at whether they transport cocaine or children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e298	I thank the representative, Mr Ballo, for the challenge. There is something that says that you should not throw stones when you are sitting in a glass house, and I think the representative Ballo emphatically does that. So today, we have made a proposal to set up an agent for crime victims, something that Ballo and the former representative of SV in the committee were very concerned about. That is not to be supported. We have a proposal to back up on the Stine Sofies Foundation, an organization that supports parents who have had a child killed. So the representative, Ballo, is standing up here on his high horse and raving down at us. Maybe it's time for SV to go by itself and look at his morals, or lack of such. But it is possible that there will be something else with regard to Norway, it may not be so important for the representative Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e305	The failure to prevent crime is total when talking only about appropriations in the field of justice and stricter penalties, in a crime-fighting perspective, which the Progress Party often does. The Progress Party cuts in its budgets in prevention welfare, cuts in almost the entire cultural budget and cuts in integration schemes. What does the Progress Party believe these cuts will lead to in the future development of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e310	I thank the chairman of the Committee for the challenge. Yes, prevention is probably a lot of things. Some of us would say that more visible police e.g. will prevent crime at the centre of this city. Some of us say that more visible police will reduce traffic accidents. More visible police and cooperation may prevent such situations from occurring as we have seen in the media recently in relation to the restaurant industry — so it is likely that there is more diversity than the representative here mentions. We believe that the police can be a good factor in that way. Another thing is that if the representative checks out what the committee has actually done, she sees that we have supported the relapse project that the Government has initiated. I myself feel that we are on very, very safe ground in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e319	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e322	One of the main objectives of justice policy is to create a safe society for citizens. Luckily, it's also that most of us feel that we have a great deal of security in everyday life. The media image in the last week has nevertheless been a dramatic reminder that this experience is not shared by all. It is not shared by the families and relatives who have experienced killing on one of their closest relatives who, according to judgment, have been committed by another family member. Nor is it shared by the minor asylum children whom we fear are victims of human trafficking, a horrifying event in a young human life. In order to create and maintain a society where people feel safe, we need to think actively about prevention. Prevention and security of individuals are best ensured through good family relationships, friendships and a secure growth environment. In the budget setting, the government parties state that strengthening the municipal economy is an important contribution to crime prevention. But I think it's very important to be aware of that, for example. failure of parents to provide care not only through public budgets. On the other hand, if one succeeds in public prevention, good cross-border administrative cooperation and cooperation with non-governmental organisations at local level are essential. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the previous Minister of Justice for focusing on just these issues. In 2003–04, the Ministry of Justice launched a pilot project ‘Snow young offenders in time — a joint responsibility for the state, the municipality and the community’. This project is run in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and is established in recognition of the need for joint efforts by the various sectors of society, such as the judiciary, health services, schools, child protection, civil society and the community, in order to succeed in combating childhood and juvenile delinquency. In August, the Bondevik II government presented a comprehensive action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. I hope the new Minister of Justice along with his government colleagues will continue this important work and not believe that you can afford to get away from these problems by filling up a swimming pool or two. It is a reality that children are also subjected to violence and sexual assault in Norway. Infringements are often committed by persons in a responsible and caring relationship with the child. In the course of the year, the Stortinget adopted its own penal order against child pornography. Children need special protection. The protection of children is strengthened by a clear and clear legal provision. But unfortunately, we still have a long way to go before we can feel confident that children get to be children, and that we avoid that children get their lives ruined by abuse. We know that the system of trial and observation of children is not working properly. We also know that New Kripos’s work on child abuse does not provide the necessary top expertise in all police districts in investigating child abuse cases. Therefore, there is still a need to strengthen the legal certainty of children in Norway. In the last year’s budget, the Government Parties and the Advance Party agreed to ask the Government to evaluate a pilot project in Norway corresponding to Barnas Hus on Iceland. The budget decision in the Grand Duchy today also grants money to start this project – a decision that is a unanimous increase behind it. The police are willing to face major challenges. The budget received a significant increase in the government budget of the year, which is also continued until next year. A strong and visible police force is one of the key prerequisites of a secure society. We need a thorough debate on the development of the Norwegian police in the future, and I am therefore looking forward to the handling of the police report by Stortinget. The right is particularly concerned with how the division of tasks in the police force should be in order to ensure an active and operational police force. The assessment of tasks that can be transferred to untrained personnel is interesting in view of the best possible use of police resources. It is therefore with great disappointment that we note that this is not a major issue for the government parties. Prior to the completion and evaluation of the testing project of captive transport, the Council of State has notified that the project should be stopped, despite the unique positive experience of the parties involved. The fight against serious organised crime has been a high priority in recent years. The police have been given the opportunity to use new and untraditional methods of investigation, and there has been a significant strengthening of the law. However, the police are still facing demanding challenges in preventing, detecting and investigating serious organised crime. The resources deployed in recent years in the investigation of the NOKAS case clearly show that such massive efforts by the police and prosecution authorities are beneficial. The right believes it is important that the pressure from the Bondevik II administration put into this case is continued. It is therefore worrying that the government parties do not support our comments where we assume that the government will return to Stortinget if the NOKAS case proves to require even more resources. A rapid response to crime has both individual and general prevention effects. Effective criminal proceedings reinforce the value of evidence, in particular the testimony, and contribute to ensuring proper decisions and thus strengthen legal certainty. A rapid treatment also reduces the burden on defendants, offended persons and their relatives. It is very important that the time between the conduct of a criminal offence and the prosecution is taken and that the judgment is available is short. That the atonement of a sentence can begin immediately, is important in order for the individual to be able to settle and move on in life. Two studies under the direction of the Riksrevisionen, which also included the representative Ellingsen, point out that there are both large exceedances in statutory processing hours and that there is a significant settlement queue. The national audit is therefore concerned that this could weaken public confidence in the system and hence the preventative effect of a well-functioning criminal action chain. There are still clear challenges in creating a good balance. Additional 5 million to the Government’s courts. In the Right's view, kr is too small. Therefore, a further 5 million will be given priority to the right. To bring down the remains in the courts and prevent them from becoming a bottleneck in the system, in addition to the challenges we already face with long queues. The Bondevik II government's budget proposal contained a start-up grant for a new prison in Halden, which is fortunately maintained by the new red-green government. It is obvious that the bonding capacity needs to be further developed in the coming years. To the right, it's a clear ambition to be able to deal with the problem of abstinence. At the same time as the further design of the inner salt prison is taking place, there is a alarming need, among other things. for several custody locations in both the south and the north. To this end, in the form of a note, the Ministry of Justice has asked the Ministry of Justice to make a specific assessment of the prison situation in the North region as part of the work on a comprehensive construction plan to be submitted in spring 2006. Unfortunately, the government parties have not supported this requirement, even though the problem is so great. Valuable police resources are to a large extent tied up in long-distance transport to prisons inside and outside North Norway. That is why I will again challenge the government parties to support this request to the Government. In addition, a comprehensive construction plan must be able to cover temporary measures and ensure sufficient cell capacity in the years to come, without us going along with the general perception of justice. As developments in organised crime progress, the need for better protection of our prisons is also increasing. On this basis, the Right has proposed a 2 million increase in criminal justice. kr. A well-developed backbone is an important success factor in bringing former prisoners back to a normal life. Voluntary and private organisations are an important complement to public authorities. The right, therefore, supports the work carried out under the auspices of Way Back and the Church's Social Service Barm project. It is important that public and private things should interact well in this area as well. The current budget provides a good basis for continuing offensive crime prevention in the coming year. It is important that our police authorities be able to show muscle and turn back in cash. Finally, I would like to point out an error in the setting. In the settings cap. 4.3, page 20, is one of the Right’s proposals for changes within the proposed framework submitted to incorrect entry. The five-million increase. kr to the courts shall be added to the chapter. 411, Court of Justice, not to chapter. 410, as it stands in the setting. Finally, I would like to address the proposals in the position where the Right is the proposer, and to indicate that the Right will also support the Left's proposal which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e362	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e368	I would like to ask a question to the Right, but first I would like to say that I welcome the initiative from the Right to raise the criminal record. We are very pleased that the Right now, after many years, chooses to give priority to criminal care. So to the question, I know that the Right has asked the Minister of Justice where they are concerned about the serious and organized crime. Nevertheless, in its proposal, the Right chooses to cut the police appropriations by 8.5 million. kr. What I want to ask the right is, where will the right cut? Is that near the police? In that case, where in Norway does the Right believe that the local police have been given too much?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e375	In our alternative budget, we have been concerned that we should have a balance in the criminal justice chain and that we should have a police force that has good framework conditions. We still believe that the police will, but at the same time, it is important to ensure that the courts and prisons have the opportunity to fulfil their role in the criminal justice chain. We have also shown that organised crime must be given priority, and we trust that the framework that the police have next year will safeguard people's security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e380	I'll continue on the question that the first replicator had to the right. The right here in its speeches and constant debates around has pointed out that they want a strong, secure and operational police force. So they've spent a lot of money here in the budget, and all these additions to the budget, they've taken away from the police. What specific tasks will the Right remove from the police? That's what the first replicator asked about. He didn't get any answers, and I want to ask again: what specific tasks will the Right remove from the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e387	I said in my speech that the Stortinget and the Justice Committee have a very good opportunity to discuss the future roles and tasks of the police in the police report that comes to spring. When it comes to the question of which specific tasks the police might not perform in the coming year, I cannot answer in detail at this time. But I want to show you that the Right is very concerned that we are going to review the tasks that the police have, and look at what kind of tasks it is that today do not require police professional competence, and that others should be able to do. It will be able to release police resources to a large extent, and therefore it is a very important discussion to take when we get to the police role report. I would then challenge the majority in the Committee and in the Government to rethink this area, because today there is only a bomb no in an area where there could be room for significant release of police resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e394	The right shall be praised for operating with real means, not like the Progress Party, which in many ways plays policy. But it also makes the Right turn out its priorities. One of the most eye-catching in the budget presented by the Right is not that they defend the budget proposals of the Bondevik government, but that they support the budget proposal of the Red-Green Government. In areas where action has been proposed by the Red-Green Government, the Right proposes further strengthening those measures. I think I found a place between ten and fifteen different budget lines that deviate from the Bondevik government budget, and where the Right suggests either the same additions or further additions. It means in many ways that the Right turns its back on Bondevik administration's judicial policy. I could imagine hearing Elisabeth Aspaker justify that. What is the reason why the Right is much more determined to support the justice policy of the Red-Green Government than to stand firm on the justice policy of the previous government? It is difficult to interpret the budget differently from the direction you have chosen, rather than very much agreeing with what is now in place, whereas the Bondevik Government has to disagree very much with what was originally proposed, both the original framework and the direction of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e401	I note that of the funds entered in the budget of the Ministry of Justice, that is about 50 million. kr which are new, fresh means. The others have come as a result of mistakes in estimates and calculations. In reality, it is the budget of the Bondevik II Government and the economic resources on which the Committee is essentially based. So I think it's going to be a little bit special that you can make it like it's the new government's policy that now determines the priorities of the budget. Of a frame of approx. So $8 billion that the new government has moved in between departments has only 0.5 pst. have arrived in the area of justice. There can't be much to brag about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e408	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e411	On the morning of 4 October, two Chinese boys aged 13 and 15 disappeared from the Springli asylum reception at Moss. The night before they disappeared, they had spoken intensely together. What they talked about, we don't know. Since then, no Norwegian authorities know where it was of the two boys. Figures from Redd Barna suggest that over the last three to four years, 100 children have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients. The real figure may be lower, but the reality remains: a number of children who have come to Norway with the assumption that the home country cannot offer them security have disappeared from Norway without any of us knowing what may have happened to them afterwards. And the most horrible thing could have happened. According to the Daily of yesterday, 30 November, trafficking in human beings has become the most profitable business in the world, with more turnover and profits than drug traffic. Children are transported from poor countries around the world and sold as slaves, as sex objects or for organ donation. Yesterday's Newspaper says that the fate of the children who disappeared is unknown to the Foreign Directorate, who was responsible for the children while they were on Norwegian soil. But fate is also unknown to the Norwegian police. Several of the children who have come to Norway have a mobile phone. Today’s Evening Post says that after today’s legislation, human smuggling is not considered serious enough to allow the telephones to be intercepted by suspected smuggling. It is only when there is trade that listening can be done. Given the very serious consequences human smuggling has for those affected, there seems to be a clear need here to review the law and look at the possibilities of capturing situations that we have not yet caught up with. However, what makes this first and foremost visible is that Norway, as a country governed by the rule of law in which you should initially feel safe, is also a country in need of greater security, greater security, more care and more inclusion. We like to see Norway as a safe country, a good country to live in, a country that takes care of its inhabitants, and where those who fall outside are caught by a safety net. But the stories of human trafficking, including from Norway and Norwegian asylum recipients, show that the reality in Norway is harder and tougher than we like to think about. Even if we close our eyes to that reality, reality will be the same. What separates a civilised society from a lawless society is precisely the ability to take care of its inhabitants in an integrated community of spaces of diversity. It's not who you are, but that you are, who should be critical of your rights. In addition to the health and social services, the police and the judiciary will help to safeguard this community and guarantee the rights of individuals. I've been in the Social Committee for eight years, and after my first two months in the Justice Committee, it strikes me how close there is to the natural bond between law and social rights and between criminal and health care. But what also strikes me is that those tapes should have been tighter. One should have had closer cooperation, one should have looked at more of a common law, and one should have developed a social service in criminal matters to a much greater extent than we have now. SV and I are pleased that the direction in which the budget we are about to adopt is precisely trying to take care of what I am describing here that we are concerned about. In a society characterized by unimaginable public wealth, we meet beggars as soon as we leave the Løvebåkken and cross Eidsvoll's place. If you give yourself time and talk to some of those who ask for alms, you get to hear stories about drug addiction and reduced health in combination with profitability in order to obtain funds for new drugs. I think we all have more or less prejudice when we meet the beggars. We think, couldn't they have taken more care of themselves? Couldn't they have done more to not be in that situation? Is it not true that they are partly responsible for the situation they have suffered? There could be elements in it that are also true. But at the same time it beats you, when you rarely take time and ask, that many of them are actually on the waiting list for treatment. A lot of people might be waiting for a pardon. A lot of people are waiting for an offer, asking for an offer, but they don't get it. This happens in a country that now has such a wealth that those numbers are completely incomprehensible to all of us. This means that for a long, long time, through several governments, we have not been able to give priority to the care of the weakest in society, to ensure that the treatment they should have had is in place, that it is built up, and that they are quickly helped with addiction. Nor have we made sure that if they are going to make a judgment, they will have to assess the matter quickly and get a restitution that is worthy. Unfortunately, many institutions today act more as a training centre for new crime than as an offer that comes from and becomes a useful human being. Again, the budget has a direction that is just trying to do something about it. We are seeking to strengthen the reconciliation conditions, we are seeking to offer more people to zone when the sentence is passed, and we are seeking to have the cows treated more quickly. But – and that is important – further in the four-year period we enter, as a member of the Government, we will also seek to strengthen the content of the compensation. It's not just a question of quantity, it's a question of quality. The community has exactly the same interests as the individual who is to zone, that there is a safe, good reconciliation, and that the content of the compensation gives you a training offer, that you get a good health offer, and that when you get out again, you get a housing offer and have a chance to get out of work. If it fails in some of those terms, it also means that the risk of relapse is greater. That means that many people who have a drug addiction still have it, and that means that many people who commit the crime of profit continue to do so. If there's something that this government needs to be clear about, it's the kind of relationship, because in the fractional society that we often see today, where there's little focus on context, we see that it also fails in the chain of action just as a consequence of it. I mentioned one of the most grotesque cases in the place, namely the policy of the Progress Party, where, despite the fact that some of them suffer the fate of being killed, they cut over DKK 1 billion in relation to asylum seekers and refugees. It's no longer cynical. Fortunately, none of the parties in the sitting government have that kind of cynicism. But we are not in the target of one budget. We must have targeted budgets for the next three years, and we must put our mark on them even more strongly than we have in the few weeks we have available. There's Elisabeth Aspaker right. In such a short time it is not possible to rectify the many damage that is in the original budget of the Bondevik government. You need more time to do that. Of course, the budget contains many areas other than criminal care, police services and health issues. It's not possible to go into everyone now. But there's one area that I'm particularly concerned about, and that's the rescue helicopter service. We see that today a base is being developed in Florø that, after a majority decision in Stortinget, is going to be a base where you open up to private actors. We must recognize that those decisions are taken. But it is extremely important that we now develop a comprehensive rescue helicopter service in accordance with the other offers that are, in relation to both rescue services, medical services and other health services, so that it becomes an integrated chain of it. It is worrying that so far we have not come to the goal of making the bases 24-hour continuum with the presence guard. But we in SV are pleased with an overall committee has said that we will have room for this, and that the government will quickly come back to it. Of course, we are pleased that this is happening in close cooperation and in full understanding with the Government. Unlike in the past, when we had minority governments, there's no reason to believe that it's being trained. When there are lines coming later, I will elaborate other parts of the budget that SV is particularly concerned about, but I'll leave it with this so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e454	I thank the representative, Mr Ballo, for clarifying the SV's position in the justice sector. Since we now have both current and former SV representatives in the Judicial Committee here, I will, in my question to Ballo, start from what SV has done in the past. If you read the setting for the current year, you also said at the time Arbeiderpartiet and SV among others. the following concerning the Ribo Attführungscenter, which has worked in relation to the §12 zone: ‘Ribo Attractor is an example of an alternative that needs to be used more. These members believe that the Ribo Attack Centre should be linked to the criminal justice system and used as a special resource.’.» They also referred to voluntary teams and organisations and mentioned several of them, including the Stine Sofies Foundation. We have now put forward a proposal to take account of the situation in which a dependant is in prison and the other parent is on the outside and has a significantly worse economy. The representative Ballo referred to the Progress Party as “kynic”. What is the reason for SV's cynicism when they do not want to support things they have otherwise supported? What is the reason why there is now a significant political turnaround?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e470	SV has no need at all to turn politically in relation to the direction that the budget now has, but we do not get everything in a year. At the same time, I think the problem that Ellings is raising is important. It is important to contribute to the social security of lone carers who experience that a spouse or a cohabitant must face a punishment — often men — and be properly cared for. That is why this is not just about the justice budget. It's about how we set up the Ministry of Labour's budget with respect to various welfare goods. We're very concerned about that. We also have the head of the committee in question, and we're very concerned about seeing that whole thing. But the problem that Ellings is concerned about, we're going to keep busy, and we're going to see how far we're going in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e478	In the context of the supplementary proposal, the right raised questions about the realism of the significant cut in the entry relating to reimbursement of municipal care measures for parolees from detention, mentally retarded persons with protective convictions or the care surrogate of mentally retarded persons. We know that these are caring measures that are demanding for municipalities, and have therefore proposed that the Government should present a description and assessment of such care measures in the context of the revised national budget. The representative Ballo was in his post concerned with the content of the settlement. It is therefore with some wonder that we note that the SV in the budget position could not endorse the proposal for such a review of this municipal care provision. I would like to ask why SV, who is otherwise so concerned with the content of the ransom, does not want to have a review in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e485	I know myself well in the opposition role in which the Right is now located. This makes it hardly difficult for the Right rather to understand that you cannot include all good purposes in a budget. There is not the matter that could possibly be resolved if you wanted to, but at some point you have to draw the line. It is quite obvious that to the extent that you do not have good enough offers in the municipalities, we will be concerned that we have to do something about it. We don't have to propose it to make the government do it. If we ask the government to do that, we get it to do that. We will follow this issue closely in 2006, and we will see if such a review is necessary. We have not yet taken a decision on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e490	Olav Gunnar Ballo was at the beginning of his speech into the serious human smuggling issues that we have seen, and he was also inside that the police have no opportunity to intercept suspects who can stand for such human smuggling. He also said that he thought it was time for a review of the possibility, as far as I understood, to make such telephone interception. I believe to the extent that it is right that we need it, and my question is then: is it such that SV sees it necessary to lift human trafficking out and have a special rule for telephone interception or other communication interception related to that kind of thing, or is it a general lower limit for communication interception he aims at?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e495	This is not a problem we have raised in the budget, but there is a problem SV is going to raise for the Minister of Justice. Today’s Evening Post describes a distinction between the terms ‘human trafficking’ and ‘human trafficking’, which can at least be seen as artificial from the look-up that the Evening Post has today. Now it's not like we're saying that this is going to change, but what we're saying, and we want to be clear, is that we want to be in close dialogue with the Minister of Justice to tackle this in a much heavier way than what we've done now. We see that these problems are so extensive that we cannot sit with our hands in prison and look at them. Neither has the Minister of Justice. I am absolutely convinced that in the dialogue we are going to have with the Minister of Justice, it will be possible to set up measures related to trafficking in human beings and, in particular, as described here, to set them up against children, but not just children, so that we become much more offensive in Norway than we have been in this area to date. SV wants to spend a lot of resources on being offensive in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e502	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e505	If you ask the individual citizen in this country what would be put as a heading of good justice policy, I am quite convinced that many will respond to security – security for themselves and theirs. I guess it's often that there's a difference between what's real security and what's experienced security. In terms of security, I want to go straight into some kind of security that many people don't have, and it's in the mood of home. As many people have been involved, we have seen a lot of bad things in recent times, not least in the case of women who are subject to assault. It is absolutely necessary that justice policy has its strongest focus on action to help those who are subjected to the most severe privacy constraints. The Bondevik II government did a lot to give those who are subjected to violence in close relationships, a reinforced protection. For example, in June 2004. put forward an action plan against violence in close relationships, which, through 30 concrete measures, helps prevent, combat and hopefully alleviate the consequences of this type of violence. Mobile violence alarms were made available throughout the country from 1 January 2004, and the arrangements for family violence coordinators are established in all police districts of the country. This effort must continue, and I am satisfied with and will give tribute to the Council of State for the work he is doing, among other things. by reducing a sample to improve the situation of raped women. I am also very pleased that the government is following up both the involvement of the Bondevik government and my party and other parties in this room to establish Barna's House in Norway. It is necessary to provide more comprehensive and coordinated assistance to vulnerable children. We look forward to constructive cooperation with the Government on these and other matters. We are, as I have mentioned, not represented in the Justice Committee. This does not mean that we do not intend to be active in the field of justice policy. For us, it is not least important to contribute to ensuring a good and present police force throughout the country. Police must be able to give priority both to private home invasions and to investigate serious and organised crime. We see several alarming changes in the crime scene, and it is vital that the police have both knowledge, material and resources to address this new reality in a good and effective way. It is therefore with some concern that we have noticed that the Soria Moria Declaration has little or nothing about organized crime. Recent media headlines on children who disappear from asylum recipients and articles on women who travel to Norway for prostitution show strongly that organised crime needs to be prioritised in the future. Since we had a round with the representative from SV about phone interception in connection with human trafficking, I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice: How does he view the possible use of the police in these kinds of cases? The Bondevik government had throughout its reign the fight against organized crime as a main field of action, and I hope the Council of State can assure that this government will continue this important work as well. The situation of police resources continues relatively unchanged in 2006. This implies that the police action must have an effective use of the funds. The biggest order is that safety should be felt for everyone in Norway, nothing less. It also poses an additional challenge with regard to the use of resources. The national audit has recently demonstrated a lack of achievement of the objectives of meeting the deadlines set for individual actors in the criminal justice chain. On average, the statutory procedural deadlines were exceeded by 143 p.m. For the cases where the deadlines have been exceeded, the average exceedance is a total of 268 pst. Although the Riksrevision specifies reasons that may explain some delays in the period for the conduct of the investigation, it must be concluded that there is a high potential for improvement in order to comply with the procedural deadlines here. So the court administration says that there is a lack of money that is the cause of long proceedings. Maybe they have some right there. I would challenge the Minister of Justice to see if there are any other reasons for this omission. There is also reason to point out that the judges themselves have a significant responsibility to use the powers of procedural law for the active management of the matters under consideration. The majority has wanted judges to intervene both in order to reduce the overall length of proceedings in the courts, also because this will help to reduce the procedural costs of each party. Decisions on the extension of penalties frameworks and on the need for higher levels of penalties for certain crimes have produced far-reaching results. We see that for some types of cases, the court imposes longer prison sentences than previous practices. This is a development that the Christian People's Party has given and will continue to give its support to. The consequences of longer and more criminal convictions are payback queues. The Bondevik government took the challenge by exploiting the maximum existing housing capacity. Increased efforts at alternative criminal responses have also helped to keep the pay queue at a reasonable level. But we fully recognise that there is a need for more prison places. It is therefore gratifying to see that both the old and the new government have agreed that Halden prison should now be built. It will provide 251 new sites by 2009 and the possibility of an additional 250 sites in the future. In the budget position, the representatives of the Progress Party say that they believe that the parent who remains with care for children when the other parent goes to prison should be considered to be a single parent in the sense of social security legislation. This position fully shares the Christian People's Party, and I would like to inform you that we are going to support the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in this way. I would say I'm a little surprised that part of the other parties won't support such a proposal. Among other things, the SV has earlier in this room had an involvement in this way. There are many important issues in the justice sector that this will also be addressed. I would like to say from the Christian People's Party that we look forward to good cooperation both with the Council of State and also with the Committee to get, I believe in many contexts, completely necessary and broadly anchored solutions to many of the criminal policy issues we are facing. I can mention someone: we're going to have a full review of the law on free legal aid. We're going to work on a new special part of the penal code. We are also going to have a follow-up to the Vergemålsommission's investigation, and not least we are going to have a debate on police roles quite soon. In the end, I will challenge the Council of State to follow up quickly on an important issue. A clearer border between the justice and health sectors is needed. The state councils, which was then a major representative, were themselves concerned about this during the deliberations of the general section of the penal code this spring. I hope that we can also work together here and agree on an effort for people with an extensive need for treatment and rehabilitation. For the vote: The Christian People's Party supports the proposals No. 2, 3 and 4 by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Right, proposal No. 9 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 13 from the Right and the proposal submitted by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e552	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e555	Both the representative Hans Olav Syversen and the representative Ellingsen were concerned about the situation of the person who remains on the payroll – a problem that SV has been dealing with for several years, as correctly pointed out. What I want to add is that everyone is aware that when a government presents a budget proposal, it is to take new measures within a given framework extremely difficult, because it obviously requires money tied up in other sectors to be moved. This could be done, for example, by: are measures which require much more investigation, including at a cost, in order, where appropriate, to put it in place. From the point of view of the SV, you should look at the possibility of being able to do it, and the government parties will work on it. What I'm asking is how it's possible, when you belong to a party that only two months earlier has presented a proposal where you didn't take such an initiative, to argue so briefly afterwards with indignantness as to why it hasn't been done, because from the point of view of the Bondevik government's budget proposals, it's hard to come up with such things. Can the Syvers tell me what has happened to the Christian People's Party in the short time that has passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e564	The representative Ballo may have a wish that I should now say that the answer is that we have gone from position to opposition, but that is not going to be the answer from this pulpit. I consider the proposal of the Progress Party to be primarily an investigative proposal. As far as I'm aware, the representative Ballo also wants to look at this particular issue, and I honestly don't think it matters if it's been two months or more. We want to look at the possibilities of improving the situation of the one who is alone with the real responsibility for caring when the other parent is going into restitution. We want to get an investigation and then evaluate what measures we can put in place to help those who come in such a situation. It doesn't seem to me to be taking too much in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e571	The Progress Party thinks it is great that the Christian People's Party is engaged in the debate that we have here today. The Group of the Party of European Socialists would also like to thank the support for the proposal we have made. The Christian People's Party has had government power for four years. In recent fiscal years, it is probably thanks to the agreement with the Progress Party that more money has been given to the justice sector. The Christian People's Party's representative in his speech here today says that they will focus on the justice sector. Then we see that the police are missing at least almost 700 million. kr to equipment and that Norway is the worst in terms of equipment for the police. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal for a separate investment budget for the police, in line with the fact that the defence has its own investment budget. Does the Christian People's Party agree with the assessment of the Advancement Party? When the Advance Party promotes such a proposal, can we count on the support of the Christian People’s Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e581	I thought it might be dangerous to support one proposal from the Progress Party. There will still be a requirement to support more people. Of course, we are on the proposal of the Bondevik II Government, with the changes that have come through the suspension and that the Right has targeted. It follows that we will not support the proposal mentioned by the representative Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e586	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e589	Annually, different forms of crime cost society billions of dollars. There is no simple answer to how to overcome this societal problem. But one must be clear: for the Central Party and for the Government, it is important to focus on preventing crime. Here we have to base a broad perspective. With good welfare for all, crime can be prevented, and many of the starting blocks of a criminal runway removed. EUR 5.7 billion to strengthen the free resources of municipalities will enable stronger local and municipal efforts to prevent and combat crime. That's why I think it's a little weird when the representative from the Right today says that this is not solved by filling up a swimming pool. It's not about filling up a swimming pool. Actually, it's a negative statement that affects the most important welfare producer we have in this country, namely the municipalities, in an unreasonable way. With a good knowledge of municipal functions, I would like to stress that the municipalities are working precisely with school, with the health sector, with non-governmental organisations, with settlement councils, with police and with father schemes to address crime prevention at an early stage. There can be no doubt that by strengthening the local economy, we can ensure a number of municipal measures. One might wonder if the Right is sitting with other measures that they see are necessary and more effective than those I have mentioned. I'm a little curious about the Right's negative attitude to the ability of municipal politicians to give priority. One of the central tasks of the police is to contribute to local well-being by ensuring security in everyday life. A visible police force, a police force involved in concern talks with young criminals and their parents, a police force that has the resources to apprehend perpetrators and conduct further investigations on the basis of intelligence, will act as a preventive tool and in the long term save society from large sums of money. At the same time, police watch systems must operate in such a way that the police can quickly be present when critical situations arise. The central party is therefore satisfied that the government in the supplementary proposal has found room to increase the police’s appropriations by nearly 90 million. kr compared to the proposals of the Bondevik Government. It is also an important signal that the Government is increasing the budget for combating tax crime by 10 million. kr. This makes it possible to intensify efforts to combat economic crime. I want to focus on another important area. It is Norway as a maritime nation, which has a significant maritime traffic in our national waters. It is important that we have sufficient rescue capacity in our area of responsibility. The recent increase in activity in the Barents Sea has helped to reinforce this need. Therefore, Norway has established four rescue stations, Sola, Ørland, Bodø and Banak. In addition, it has been decided to expand a fifth station in Florø. However, only the Sun has been given funds in this round for a happy day's preparedness, which is estimated at 15.6 million. kr. This has reduced the response time by 30–35 minutes, which in some accident situations may be crucial for whether or not life can be saved. It's a goal to be able to increase the crew at the other stations accordingly. Ideally, we should have done so in this budget proposal, but the financial framework did not allow it. However, the Central Party has taken note that the Committee asks the Government for a rapid feedback with an escalating plan for the presence at more stations than the Sun. There would have been an advantage if, in the treatment of the revised national budget for spring, the preparedness could be extended at another station, and this could be done independently of the above feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e609	Given the number of municipalities in which the Central Party has the rapporteur, and this enormous cooperation, the question of why the development of crime has been as it has been, must be asked. That might be some of the reasons why the Right asks questions by giving $5.7 billion and running it over a number of municipalities that could administer 40 million people and not four and a half. In a line change, Elisabeth Aspaker asked an interesting question that was not answered by the representative Bjørnflaten, so I repeat that question to the representative of the Central Party. Can the Central Party confirm that, in the case of the budget where there are no own comments, and this is practically not any place, the political assessments underlying the initial draft budget are shared? Until now, the Soria Moria Declaration has been referred to, and it has become a practice that reminds us of when Bible faith – or, preferably, Bible superstition – people are met with reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e616	Providing a complete confirmation of agreement is not possible. But I see that in this room there is a great deal of agreement on parts of the budget, which we also find in the supplementary proposal that exists today. We will come back to the remaining nuance differences and have the opportunity to elaborate in future debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e621	The representative Samuelsen makes it a point that you can manage to do enough on the preventive side by adding these DKK 5.7 billion in new money to the municipalities. As head of the Crime Prevention Council, I have previously been involved in creating new cooperation models between different departments, including the representative Samuelsen, on the municipal level and with the child in focus. The point is that there are many agencies that have responsibility, but it's important to get people to sit together and start working together. It's not about new funds, but it's about getting involved in new ways with those who're already involved. When it comes to filling up the swimming pool, I have to say that I am building my statements and my scepticism to the ability of the municipalities to follow up in the right way on the statements that have come from local politicians around the country. So I have a question for Samuelsen that I have also asked here earlier today: how is he going to make sure that the municipalities use the money in the preventative way for which he makes himself a spokesman?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e630	I am pleased that the representative Aspaker initially confirmed the importance of the municipal economy in preventive work. I did not quite recognise that this new measure was so special, because the cross-sectoral cooperation, which I understand the representative was concerned about, exists and has existed, at least in many municipalities, for a long, long time. With regard to the exact follow-up of the individual municipality, I assume that those who are closest to the problems, who meet their inhabitants, who see the problems and are going to solve them, are able to do so – something the centre party has confidence in – without an instance over them sitting and holding them in their ears and telling them what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e639	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e642	For the Left, the fight against violence and crime is a struggle for well-being. Living in a society where crime places great restrictions on people's lives deprives citizens of security, freedom and well-being. Winning crime, economic crime and organised crime mean that the community is deprived of important values. This is why the government's judicial policy becomes so important. In the Left, the fight against organised crime, security against violence and work against children and young people has been central. The current government has so far been silent in its work on child and youth crime and in its efforts to combat organised crime. I assume that the Government and the State Council of Storberget will continue an offensive work on the action plans that are established and aimed at children and young people in terms of violence in close relations and trafficking. The very test of a good criminal policy is about the Government’s ability to distinguish between actions against hard, organised criminal networks and, for example, against criminal networks. First-time criminals. I note that the government parties in their comments choose not to mention the importance and necessity of combating organised crime. This is particularly surprising when the budget is dealt with in parallel with the main negotiations in the NOKAS case and at the same time when what could be a possible route for trafficking in children is revealed in Norway. With that inactivity, it is all the more appropriate that the Government of the State Council of Storberget continues the offensive work that has been carried out in the Ministry of Justice in that field in the last four years. In this context, let me also refer to the management of the NOKAS case by the government of Bondevik, which has had broad support in Stortinget. It is clear that the NOKAS case is special in Norwegian legal history. It is also clear that its follow-up is part of the fight against serious organised criminality and what follows in the wake of such acts. On that basis, I would like to raise the Left's proposal. I refer you to: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals to cover any additional costs related to the NOKAS case in 2006.’ In order for the police to do a good job, it is essential that police and psychiatry have close and close cooperation and a clear relationship between themselves. Gray zones between the police and the psychiatry can be very difficult. There are countless examples. A good and mutual dialogue between the police and different parts of the healthcare system requires a good and mutual exchange of information between the police and health authorities at the centre. To succeed, the Council of State is required to pursue an active and solution-oriented policy in that area. I am pleased to register that the government Stoltenberg is following up the Bondevik government's work with new prison in Halden. On the other hand, I am a little more surprised by the government's lack of investment in a new prison in the Inner Salt and thereby a lack of commitment to the reconciliation situation in the North Region. The need for new settlements is clearly significant. This applies to all parts of the country. The parties to the government opt to make very little visible the kind of judicial policy they intend to pursue in the budget. There are very few comments that signal policy. So it becomes St. prp. No 1 which is the basis for important parts of the further work of the Government in the field of justice policy. That's something we're very happy about. The Left supports the Right’s proposal for redeployment within the framework, which increases the focus on the courts, legal remedies and criminal justice. The Left also supports the Right Framework Independent Proposals, the proposals No. 2, 3, 4, 13, and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e664	The representative André Nikolai Skkelstad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e670	According to the Fafo report on living conditions, inmates have roughly opposite educational patterns of people else. Reading and writing difficulties are widespread, and many have probably had a very poor meeting with the school. Within the walls the experience is different. Most people enjoy the school, including because they are met with a different understanding and are followed more closely than they were in the ordinary school. I assume that Skkelstad has agreed with me that it is difficult to get work without education. Why is Left so against several teachers in the school – cf. the depriority of the local economy — and why will they no longer focus on education in prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e677	Left rates of education in relation to prisons, there is no doubt about it. It also appears in the budget presented by Mr Bondevik II.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e682	When I hear the representative of the Left, there is something to me hidden in his reasoning. He's talking about that we haven't signaled a bet in relation to heavy crime. But what we're doing is we're increasing the budget by 87 million. kr, and we believe that action is more important than words. In addition, he says he will follow the Right suggestion. It'll actually mean a cut in the $8.5 million police appropriations. kr. The two things are not entirely in order, so I want to ask the representative of Skkelstad: is it most important with words, or is it most important with action?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e687	The Left wants to strengthen the courts in the budget and in addition the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e692	The budget we are about to adopt today is a strengthened budget in relation to the budget proposed by the Bondevik Government, and the Left has, of course, had the Minister of Justice. I would like to ask the representative from the Left if the representative sees the budget adopted today as a better or a worse budget than what the Bondevik government originally presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e699	I am of the opinion that Bondevik II has presented a very good budget, but it is positive that there has been a strengthening of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e704	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e707	I think there is reason to be proud of the budget that the Stoltenberg II government has presented. The means of dealing with criminal policy, criminal law, police and even the courts are the means of which there is reason to be proud. There are funds that count – there are fresh money that can mean a lot compared to much of the work done in the fight against crime. In that way, I disagree with those who are now going into percentages on how small it should be, either in relation to what you move on, or in relation to the total state budget. It actually rips the legs during the argumentation for those who had to come with e.g. 500 million. extra to Norwegian courts. The amount proposed is between 150 and 170 million. kr directly into our sector, are incredibly important means. I want to warn everyone who participates in the criminal policy debate against staring blindly at whether it is the Soria Moria Declaration, the wording of the supplementary proposition or, for that matter, other propositions, and looking for words and at the same time not following up in action. The budget submitted is, in the opinion of the undersigned, characterised by four factors: Firstly, it involves a commitment, which means that the Government wants to take the fight against crime seriously. The fact that Norway is run by a government composed of the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party does not mean that you want to step down the fight against crime. In addition, the budget presented represents a clear direction: we see a significant need to address the issue of the reconciliation queue and, not least, the fact that the entire committee is happy to do something about the quality of the settlement and the quality of the other types of reactions, so that people get out of criminal patterns and into a law-abiding existence. The third element of the draft budget is that it involves action. We have a wide range of action plans behind us, which are good reasons for giving full support. But it has been a challenge in the last four years that, in our view, there has been a lot of action plans and relatively little action. It is my ambition that justice policy should be more marked by action and perhaps less marked by words and action plans — with all the danger of being quoted in future debates. The fourth and last element I want to draw up is that we want to have a dialogue not only with non-governmental organisations, on which Ellingen's representative is very generous, but also in relation to the opposition in Stortinget. There I have to give full support and great tribute to the representative Syversen, who, according to my concepts, made a very good policy post and just pointed out the need for the broad consensus that must lie behind the policy of justice. We're totally dependent on that. There are quite strict coercive substances to be used, invasive methods, and then we depend on this to gain confidence and legitimacy in the population. That's what we're creating first and foremost by having a broad majority here in the Grand Duchy. It's the Governments and my ambition that we're just going to continue that line. So the invitation from the Christian People's Party to engage in dialogue both in terms of method use and in relation to the general policy of justice, I am happy to accept, and I want to play on the team. I also believe that the budget that has been presented gives a good deal of signal that has come from the opposition. I also allow myself to notice when I am sitting and I hear that there are other areas of activity that you want to take care of, that we are going to take it seriously. It also applies to non-governmental organisations, and the Foundation of Stine Sofies is mentioned. There is no reason to believe that this organisation or other organisations would be significantly worse off with this government than has been the case in the past. Here we are faced with an allocation that I am happy to enter, precisely in order to meet the wishes that come from the opposition. We would also like to point out in this budget three key issues in the fight against crime: First of all, criminal policy is very much a matter of incident. That shows the debate here today: we are withdrawing what is – I kept saying – the newspaper headlines from yesterday and today, and making it important matters, and we must do so to a large extent. But it's important sometimes to keep an overall focus and to keep an eye on the whole picture even when we're debating the fight against crime in general. The number of representatives has pointed out in terms of getting comprehensive control and cooperation between psychiatry, health, children’s and family sectors, child protection, labour market and criminal care – and I could have mentioned a number of other sectors – will be a priority for the Government in the future. The second relates to the content of the budget. It is said that we believe that in the fight against crime we would lose if we measured the success of criminal policy only out of the justice budget. It would be – I was saying – a criminal police raid if we tore the ground under, for example. the ability of Norwegian municipalities to pursue welfare policies, as has been the case for many years. Most parties in Stortinget are responsible and credited for over 90 p.m. by children and young people in this country under 18 years of age do not commit criminal acts, at least not being charged with criminal acts. We have a pretty good, densely woven well-being network, for which many have the credit, and which helps to do something of the utmost in the fight against crime. A large majority in the United Kingdom have the credit that we have relatively low drug consumption in Norway, which contributes to a relatively low frequency of criminal acts. That is why there is every reason to call for caution in relation to the forces that want to dismantle a restrictive alcohol policy. The last thing the government has pointed to is that we want to prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate better. It's in the Soria Moria statement. These are not measures aimed at just one type of criminal act. These are measures to address organised crime, in relation to the issue of child and youth crime, in relation to the challenges we face in relation to our new countrymen, etc. etc. In this way, I strongly disagree with the representative from the Left, who pointed out that it had been silenced by the Government in relation to, for example, the government. the fight against organised crime. That's why we're arresting the police. That is why we believe that the police now need more money than the Bondevik II government has proposed. That is why we believe that we now need to speed up the pay queue, so that we can free up custody places in Norway, and 45 new properties do not mean that much. We're going to continue that work. Solstice creates very little trust in the criminal justice chain, it also leads to a poor fight against crime, and we have the ambition to fight crime. I am also pleased that a large majority, a unanimous committee to a large extent, supports what we say about the need for a close and strong police force. The fight against organised crime would have been totally debatable if we didn't get the Ecocrime upgraded to review all the messages about suspicious relationships, i.e. money laundering transactions, that are now coming in. We have instructed the outside community, whether it's lawyers or financial institutions, to report to Ecocrim. Now the government is taking action beyond what the Bondevik II government did, in relation to just being able to get people to go through these messages and run investigations and possibly make charges. Our upgrade in relation to Ecocrim is one of the most important estimates against just serious organised crime – trying to do something about the illegal cash flow in this. In addition, I would like to point out the effort that the government has started and signalled in relation to using DNA evidence. It is imperative that we find out more crime in several areas in Norway. In fact, in my view, this is a more important debate than how long we are going to punish the few that are actually being taken. We cannot live with a situation where some and ninety percent of the girls raped in Norway feel that there is no judgment on such an act. In this way I am very impatient to take hold. There is no use here of beautiful action plans, good Soria Moria declarations and any additional propositions alone. In fact, here we need to become more effective, and I see it just as my and the government's task to become. In addition, I am very pleased that the line that the previous Judicial Committee continued in relation to a good deal of important issues of principle, into this period. The Committee agrees that there is a need to use alternative criminal responses, community sanctions, conflict councils, etc., and wishes to extend it. I'm very happy about that – it's constructive. It points to the content of the settlement and, finally, to the development of a close police force, particularly in relation to the pilot projects proposed by the Government in Hedmark Police District and in Agder Police District. I am pleased to have such broad support here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e741	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e744	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is on the topic that has been debated before today, which concerns human trafficking, the penal framework and telephone interception. Will the Minister of Justice immediately take the initiative to do something about it and come back to Stortinget, so that you can also use phone interception in the kind of matters that are being discussed today? The second is a theme I've been on before, the relationship with the Stine Sofie Foundation. The Council of State had something to do with it itself. Is there any chance that the Council of State has intended to restore the damage done by the Storting by the majority not granting funds to the Stine Sofie Foundation? Is it so that you can assume that the Council of State will appear as a saving angel and put things back in place, and in that way reap the glory of appropriations where the Storting has not actually done its job?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e751	To the first part of the question, on methodology: we're looking at it right now. We can't sit quietly and look at statements about such empty spaces in relation to such an important area. But I might signal to Stortinget that it is often a good idea to have some ice in your stomach – I think the representative Ellingsen sail has acknowledged it on certain occasions – so that we can see this a little bit wider. We are now given the opportunity to assess the issue of methodology by including the existing methods. shall be evaluated. But we're going to go into this, I promise. So to the Stine Sofie Foundation, we've pointed out some areas where we want to bet, and that's especially about the content of the settlement. It is based on, among other things, The Progress Party said in the accession debate here in Stortinget, among others. in relation to Way Back. That's why we're supporting it, just to be responsive to the opposition. But there's no sign in it that you should stop supporting all the other organizations that the Ministry of Justice actually supports, such as the Stine Sofies Foundation and others, like, among others. receiving aid above entry 70, will be assessed on the same line as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e759	The Minister of Justice pointed out that there may be too many action plans, but I hope we in this Chamber can agree that we need the action plan against violence in close relations, we need an action plan to combat trafficking in human beings, and we also need to combat child and youth crime. The Minister of Justice himself has announced that he will come to the Stortinget with a comprehensive prison building plan. In this context, the Right and Advance Party have a note asking the Government to make an extended assessment of the settlement capacity in the northern prison region, as it seems clear that a prison in the Inner Salt will not be sufficient to meet capacity needs. So my question to the Minister of Justice here and now is whether he, despite the inaction shown by the government parties in the committee, can promise that in the context of that plan an extended assessment of the capacity problem in the northern prison region will be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e766	Unlike the Right, the Government is concerned that we are currently establishing more prison sites. That's why we're proposing 45 new ones, as opposed to what the Bondevik II government did. When I have said that there is a need for an overall assessment of the need for number of settlement sites, custody sites, this applies to the whole of Norway. The press is big not only in the north, and here in the Stortinget we are set to represent the whole country. So my ambition is that this plan will apply to the whole country, and then it is said that also North Norway is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e771	I agree with the Minister of Justice that we should have ice cream in our stomachs when it comes to methodology. And maybe you're going to have more ice in your stomach the more intrusive methods you're going to use. But then the Minister of Justice said he was already on the move. Then it is tempting to ask how the Minister of Justice is looking at this. So a follow-up of that committee's leader, the Bjørnface, was inside his post. With regard to this sample to look at the situation of women at risk of rape, she, as far as I understood, asked the Minister of Justice to include the situation of children at risk of violence in the same sample. How does the Minister of Justice feel about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e778	The whole political leadership, and to the extent that the entire Ministry of Justice, is a listening organization, and the experience I've had after coming to the ministry, is that I have an incredibly great office with me – it's great to be able to say it from the Parliament's pulpit as well – that just catches up with the nails that come in such things as the ones we've seen in the last few days. What we're doing is, of course, we're monitoring what the situation is, and how the methodology and the law are related to this, to see if there's room for change, and if it's necessary to do it faster than what it's put into, for example. the evaluation of the methodology. When it comes to the question of the sample to deal with the situation of women at risk of rape, I'm in favour of the recording that comes from the Christian People's Party, firstly because it's an important input. But it is also difficult to set limits on what rape is, and what an assault on a child is. It is therefore quite natural that it can be included in that sample. And it's my hope that we can get more operational in order to get the percentage of information in that kind of case right now, especially in connection with establishing Barna's House. So that's the invitation we're going to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e787	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e790	Most of us want a higher level of activity in the fight against crime, but this also requires that we have the capacity and resources to follow up on responses. That's why we believe that there will be a need to strengthen criminal care, both for the sake of society, the employees, the zoners, and those who are going into reconciliation. Such a propitiatory queue as one has today, society at all is not served. The offender is not allowed to settle for a new life. While standing in the pay queue, the lives of the convicted will often be ‘waited’ and no motivation will be given to get a job or to take other steps to get to the right place. You know that you're going in and zone, but just not when. Sadly, this often ends with many committing crimes while waiting for atonement. Therefore, increasing the use of resources to reduce the pay queue will in the long term pay off in terms of less crime. The Progress Party will therefore strengthen criminal custody by 55 million. Mr Bondevik II's proposal. Of this increase in relation to the Yellow Book, 25 million is assumed. kr is used primarily for the maintenance and cleaning of prison buildings, and that 30 million. kr goes to other general operations. This is a strengthening of this sector of 35.4 million compared to the government of Stoltenberg. kr. Then I want to go back to some of the things that the Right Representative was inside in his main post here today. The representative from the Right had many good suggestions for additions, but she got two questions about cutting in the appropriations for the police. The answer was that this should be included in the police report. But the police report is something we're going to deal with for spring. The cuts that the Right wants in the police report are something that will come in the future, while the Right's budget is currently adding up to cut the appropriations for the police as early as 1 January 2006. And after repeated calls, the Right at all will not respond specifically to what they will cut from 1 January 2006. I ask this question again to the representative from the Right and hope that they have enough time to speak, that they can use three minutes later to answer what kind of tasks they think the police will not do next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e806	One of the main tasks of the Storting and the Government is to ensure that we have a legal system that takes care of legal security and gives the people confidence in it. It is then important to have a court that works well. In the Government's political platform, it is a priority area to have more rapid case resolution in both criminal and civil matters. It is important that we have a high level of activity in the courts, and the budget of the government of Stoltenberg II adds to it. High activity level is important for good trust in the system. More rapid criminal proceedings are also essential to obtain the best possible effect out of the criminal justice chain. What has been done in this budget to improve the level of activity in the courts? We have several adopted and ongoing reforms that contribute to it. Among other things, the fact that we have collected property information in one place at the Staten Kartverk helps to reduce the amount of work for the district court. The merger of the Courts of First Instance, from 92 to 66, increases the possibility for courts to make more efficient use of resources. A new procedural system is in place in all the Courts first and second instance. The operating budget of the courts has increased by 25 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005. kr as a result of the increased ICT effort and the reform process. All of this helps to make a positive contribution to speeding up proceedings in the courts. The new Law on Disputes will also help to provide more effective civil justice. It is suggested that more disputes than today can be resolved by mediation, and I expect the government to facilitate the entry into force of the law within today's timetable. It is important that legal time limits for dealing with a number of criminal cases be given high priority. It's especially important in cases where the perpetrator is under 18 years of age. The same is true of violence and moral crimes. It is important that young offenders quickly come to the courts and get their judgment passed, and then quickly get to and zone the verdict. This is important given that it will be general preventive with short distance from criminal activity being committed to conviction and acquittal. It has something to do with putting things behind and getting on in life. I know of a case where a 20-year-old youth did not raise the first case against him until after two years, and then he had collected more than 15 criminal cases. We can't have it that way. In order to obtain the above, it is important that we have a court with qualified judges with a varied background. The administration of the Court of Justice must work to ensure that the Court of Justice appears to be an attractive job and contribute to a broad recruitment and a good gender balance. The pilot project on the use of judicial videoconferencing shall be evaluated after the end of the probationary period. I hope there is a system that turns out to be so successful that it can be used across the country as an important tool for resource and time savings in court. Through the budget proposal and its treatment, the Government and the Grand Duchy have identified the financial framework, set objectives and drew up general guidelines and expectations for judicial work. Within this framework, the Court of Justice shall have considerable discretion over the design of interim measures and the choice of instruments. However, it is important to see the budget as a whole. More money has been allocated to the conflict councils, prevention, the operation and content of the criminal justice system and the municipal economy. This effort helps to prevent crime, particularly among children and young people and those with drug problems. This helps to ensure that cases that have previously been brought to justice can now be met with other forms of reaction. It is important that courts have a universal design so that they are more accessible to all users of their services. Of course, it is important to increase the appropriations allocated to the courts, and I am pleased that the Labour Party is involved in providing a budget today that does just that – you increase the appropriations allocated to the courts by 5 million. kr. Today's budget has also increased appropriations for the justice sector by 129 million. kr, and there is a step on the way to more close police, more preventive work, better criminal justice and a good and effective court, leading to an improvement in legal certainty and an increase in people’s confidence in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e840	The Justice Committee has in many ways had an unjustified monopoly on defining what is effective justice policy, and it shows to the extent that the debate today is about to take place. Both the Councils of State and members of the Committee have been concerned that many have, in one way or another, been sitting on each other, on each of their money bags and have not seen an overall picture of criminal policy. The establishment of police councils is one of the important points that many have been concerned about in the past and is a step in the right direction. I want to take up another point that means a lot to the right, but even more to the ones that apply. In the 2005 government budget, with the support of the Progress Party, funds were allocated to launch a pilot project in Trondheim with increased cooperation between police, local authorities and health authorities to ensure more dignified treatment for those with drug and psychiatry problems. For that group, all chairs fall, leaving the police with tasks that they initially do not have the means to solve, or should do. First of all, it is bad for those who have ended up in that grey zone. It is also important that these positive experiences are linked not only to other cities but also to other urban areas that end up in a grey zone regionally. For example, there is no very big difference between the evolution of crime at Stovner and Lillestrøm. Now I have come home with my greeting, since there has been a lot of focus on North Norway, for various reasons, in this debate today. It may have something to do with the composition of the committee, but it is important to get that point out. I find it a little strange that the Council of State in a letter to the Stortinget calls the Trondheim evaluation ‘signals given’. In that case, there are quite clear signals, and I believe that this evaluation is reason enough to go further and further develop this project to apply to other areas of the country, including other cities and urban areas. Although the measure is the baby of the former majority, it is surprising if the new majority is unable to support it. While focusing on the need for this kind of prevention work in urban and urban areas, I have seen that in Rome there is a need to focus on empowerment in the municipal sector in order to combat corruption and maladministration — in the light of the revelations in Rome, perhaps even greater need for prevention. The right therefore proposes the development of a national strategy for empowerment in the municipal sector. It's okay enough that you don't intend to be too active in terms of competitive outsourcing to ensure more and better services, but it's a strange form of municipal autonomy if you don't want to make sure that no one eats of the increased load of NOK 5.7 billion that you want to give. The revelations related to both Lower Rome-rich Waterworks, Akershus Energie and many others show that many governments do not seem to know either up or down on an account, and have not had the ability to ask the necessary questions along the way. It has made it possible that the fauna around the eye has recently become much more rich than it has been. Tickets and rock club houses also seem to have been sponsored in a lot of creative ways. The combination of lack of ethics and knowledge is not an isolated case, and although several municipalities and KS now say that they will take this seriously, the government should also show an even greater interest in it. In yesterday's Municipal Report, for example, former corruption leader Erling Grimstad that there is a lack of focus in the municipal sector on corruption. Many do not understand where the limit goes for criminal influence, lubrication and bribery. They do not understand the methods used by many suppliers, and there is a high level of naivety. In the past, the Council of State has stressed that the fight against corruption is international. In the budget, the majority constellation is silent at that point. I therefore want to challenge the committee and fraction leader at this point and ask if she shares the assessment that this fight is also local, and that the state should contribute to an increase in competence in order to ensure an effective fight against corruption, or if one does not want to expand the control apparatus, but only rely on those who are going to do the job doing it in a conscientious manner. And then I'm going to draw attention to a so-called incurrency. This is a proposal that has emerged both in our framework proposal under IX and as proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox It shall not be put to the vote on proposals under IX, but on proposal No. 14, as it's frame-independent. In the end, I would like to say that in a debate on justice policy, a debate on criminal policy, I think almost the most criminal is the ability of the Progress Party not to deal with the framework and the use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e861	I must begin by saying that I have looked forward to this debate today. The reason is that we like to see ideological differences between parties when it comes to justice policy. The gateway to this year's budgeting work became known as a little special, because we got a long-term government change. In practice, that means that we have inherited a budget after Bondevik II, and that we were going to try to put our mark on that budget. And it's as you know a difficult and complicated exercise when you think about the short time we've had at our disposal. Nevertheless, I believe that the government has managed to deliver in relation to what we have anchored in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that it is of course important for us to get a good start on. The Soria Moria declaration is an ambitious political project that will last 48 months, and then it is important to start well. It is also reassuring to me that we have managed to deliver within the Ministry of Justice budget with a balanced and targeted increase. I want to focus on what we do in relation to the police. We're increasing the budget by 87 million. kr more than the Bondevik II provided. The majority of this is going to increase the operational resources of the police, and it allows police Norway to clarify more and react more quickly. That being said, we are fully aware that this does not solve all the complex problems facing the police. But it's a start, and I think it's a clear signal of a change of direction in Norwegian policy. Clearly, we have some challenges in how we as a society are going to deal with the problems that the police are facing right now. And we also see that part of this problem is not just about money – I am thinking about the remaining phase two of the police reform and St.meld. No 42 for 2004–2005, which we are considering, on the role and tasks of the police. These are very important tasks that we are about to tackle and that are not necessarily about increasing budgets. First, I want to say a little bit about the police reform. This was and is a necessary reform in order to have a police and county council that is more effective in preventing and combating crime. But those who have followed in the newspapers in the last two years can get the impression that the reform has not achieved the desired results. I think the picture is more complicated than that. We have received an interim report on the police reform that says that we have become better at dealing with major issues and serious crime. But the same report also says that we have not achieved the objectives of everyday crime, prevention and local presence. Maybe there's been a wrong path. This, of course, is serious. The new government must take hold of it and try to fix it. It is also serious when as many as 70 p.m. Some of the police staff say the reform has failed. This number is so large that you can't excuse it with normal conversion wear. Of course, one should be careful to point to reasons that it has become like that, but I will nevertheless turn to some considerations around it. One reason, I think, is that the 2003–2004 budget led to an increased imbalance between tasks and resources for the department. There was simply too little money compared to the expectations. In my view, this was particularly unfortunate in the midst of a major reform effort, because no early gains were made in relation to the reform, which is important psychologically important in order to minimise energy leakage in a transformation process. What may have happened is that the reform has been blamed for the poor resource situation, and it is a little wrong. The interim report also points to a number of other key challenges, such as the relationship between everyday crime and resource use on serious crime, the relationship between tasks and resources, and finally the relationship between the expectations of different interests with the police. These are questions we will deal with in connection with St.meld. No 42 next year. To conclude, I would say that we are doing well to fulfill our promises in the Soria Moria Declaration. We're changing course, and I think we're able to have a focused and balanced commitment to a comprehensive fight against crime. I know that around Norway there are many people waiting for what the new government will do in relation to the Santa Claus Act. I would like to refer to the Soria Moria declaration, which mentions this in four points. It says: «The government shall instruct state-run funds and government properties to grant redemption rights to 30 times consumer-priced original rental.» [[...]] It also states that the Government will initiate a change in the law, so that the right of redemption is granted every two years, and that the right of redemption for cabins in general is not granted. And finally: ‘The right of redemption shall not be granted for agricultural-related cabins and where the fixed income represents more than five per cent of the net income of the farm.’;» I know that our Minister of Justice and the Department have paid a lot of attention to this, and that it is now working hard to get a hearing note in connection with a legislative change. To that I would say that I hope it will come in the next year, and that in mid-2006 we might have this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e893	The Courts have an important role and a significant responsibility both for the rule of law and for the legal certainty of citizens. A free and independent court is a protection for people. The courts are the most important solution to the conflict in society. Therefore, the courts must be independent institutions capable of ensuring prompt and fair treatment. The Party of Progress emphasises the need to ensure the legal certainty of the individual. One is innocent until the opposite is proven. The Progress Party will modernise the courts and streamline the procedure by facilitating simplified civil proceedings. The courts should have the freedom to make greater use of simplified judicial procedures. The time between research and their implementation must be reduced. The Progress Party believes that a faster procedure in simpler matters must be established. We all know that cows in the courtroom are very unfortunate to all parties. It is not only the perpetrator who is going to wait for the verdict, also the victim and the relatives are going to wait for the matter to be dealt with. We have several examples every day that perpetrators walk around freely and commit new crimes pending legal proceedings, convictions and acquittals. This is contrary to people's sense of justice. It is unheard that suspects choose well-known lawyers who have so many cases that it becomes difficult to frame a case. The courts must not simply comply with the timetables of a cumbersome lawyer. Restrictions must be imposed here. It was with pleasure I read in the Soria Moria statement that the Government will have increased use of conflict advice for young offenders. The work done by the conflict councils is an important complement to the ordinary criminal justice practice. The Council of Conflict saves the legal system for the costs of resolving the case before it comes to court. The conflict management system will also provide young first-time offenders with an opportunity to settle without major consequences in their lives. But for the Progress Party, it is important that these sanctions be felt as punishment. The Progress Party regrets that the Government has not found more money for the important work carried out by the conflict councils. This is a good social investment. To achieve an effective fight against crime, it is important to see the whole chain of criminal proceedings in the context. Today's crime scene means that there is a greater need for security measures in courts. It is important to protect both employees and users, and it is important to streamline justice in Norway. The Progress Party will highlight the pilot project that Oslo Police now has with the video production of prisoners. It is also gratifying that the entire Committee agrees that there is a great potential for efficiency in the video production of prisoners. The Progress Party has high expectations for the use of videoconferencing in the courts, and we ask the Government to ensure that work is continued to make this a permanent and nationwide arrangement. There is still a need to reduce the length of proceedings in the courts. The courts are still struggling with a great deal of time and length of proceedings. In all its alternative budgets, the Progress Party has proposed increases in the appropriations allocated to the courts. Last year's Bondevik government agreement increased the appropriations by 25 million. kr. Finally, the procedure was under way before the courts. Over 7 pst. more cases were dealt with in the first half of 2005 than in 2004. The size has been decided in recent years in terms of the length of proceedings and the reform of the courts. Here we see a clear example of the Storting adopting, but you don't follow up with funds. Everyone in this room knows that the challenges facing the courts with the reorganisation and introduction of new dispute laws require money. It is therefore with concern that the Progress Party notes that the new government cuts in the appropriations for the Court of Justice. It is not useful to talk about reducing the length of the procedure without having consequences in the form of an increase in the budget. One would almost think that the government would not have gone ahead in legal proceedings, and one would almost think that the government would not have the perpetrators condemned. They don't have prison grounds for the convictions. It says in the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘Rapid criminal response against offenders is essential for the general perception of justice and to prevent offenders from committing new crimes.’ The Progress Party fully understands the concerns of the Court of Justice administration, and in our alternative budget we want to strengthen the Court administration by more than 23 million. kr. For the Progress Party, it is important to have an effective and modern court. This requires a good economy. The Courts face major challenges in the next few years, and in recent years the courts have shown the ability to adapt and improve efficiency. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is concerned about what is now happening because of the cuts in the court administration, and we fear that we are now getting even longer proceedings in the judicial system. So a little comment to Thomas Breen, who complained that it has been too short to move money into the budget. For information, the Progress Party in the match with Bondevik II last year moved more money in four days than Stoltenberg has managed to move in 24 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e933	We in the Workers' Party want a total reduction in crime. Then there must be a commitment to prevention, to good police and to a rapid and concerted response to lawbreakers, and we must ensure that prisons and criminal services are upgraded. The trust in the criminal system and the criminal policy and the entire judicial system is, as has been said here before, weakened when convictions waiting for judgment and acquittal make new offences. When a crime is convicted, a crime should not be committed freely in the streets and should be capable of committing new offences. Then shall a son's judgment be done, and shall be finished, and shall go on in his life. Therefore, we need to increase the capacity of prisons, both by building new ones, by reconstructing and looking at alternative forms of reconciliation. The working party will continue to work actively to increase the capacity of prisons, both in the short and long term. Long settlement queues and long waiting time before a person comes in to atoning, it weakens prevention in punishment. Lack of adequate maintenance and resolution capacity and, besides, scarce resources in relation to soning reinforce the problem of relapse criminals. We'll deliver. New prisons in Halden will provide 251 new places in 2009. This is coming. Extension of Vik prison is on offer, and coming. And we have suggested establishing 45 new open properties already in 2006. But it's not enough just to build more prisons, we also need more vocational training. That is why we are proposing the admission of an additional class at the Education Centre of Crime Agency, KRUS. Together, we are proposing a 61.5 million increase in criminal services. kr in addition to the proposed Bondevik II. Both society and individuals are interested in a criminal implementation that focuses on the content of soning. We know that about half of the convicted people before five years have passed will be convicted of new criminal offences. That's why it's good criminal policy to put in resources to reduce the risk of relapses into new crime after one's death. Then comes the question of how do we manage to reintegrate them inside. What do we know about those in Norwegian prison? Jo, we know that 60 pst. some of them have problems with alcohol. We know that reading and writing problems are spreading. We know that more than 30 pst. Of those inmates, they have mental problems, and we know that 70 pst. was without work when they were imprisoned. I don't want to sew pillows under the arms of those inside, nor do they apologize for what they've done. But once they have completed the punishment, we have to give them a real chance to get away from a criminal career. Then they have to get a challenge, so that they can get a job, and we have to help them deal with the trouble/health problem. Getting into work after settlement is alpha and omega to break with previous lives and get into the right track. Otherwise, there's a fast back to where one was before the atonement, and society will only be protected in the period they're out of circulation, i.e. when they're in prison. Measures for the first-time zones, and especially for the young first-time zones, are particularly important. One should focus on the implementation and prevention of new crime – precisely because we do not want them back in prison again. That is why we are also proposing to increase the rights to challenge, to the prison library service and to the operational framework of criminal services. This increase in the operational framework of criminal services should help to maintain the level of activity and better follow-up possibilities for young people. If we're to prevent repeat criminals, there must be an offer and a follow-up even after release. That is why we want to increase our contribution to, among other things: Way Back - Previous Life After Atonement. These measures should contribute to a better follow-up to the laxatives and reduce the risk of relapses into criminal acts. We've started the fight to get rid of the atoning cows, to provide the police with the resources to clear up and react, and to stop the swinging door criminals. And not least, we are making enormous efforts at prevention. A common criminal policy needs this country, and that country needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e954	Justice policy is about people's security in everyday life. A good justice policy is about welfare policy, and it's about being able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. For a good justice policy is not just about being tough on crime. It is equally important to prevent: being obsessive about the causes of crime. We in the Workers' Party have two thoughts in our heads at the same time. Because we know that there is a link between the social security network, represented by the Norwegian welfare state, and that Norway scores low on the Crimean statistics. The reason why we in Norway have a relatively low crimping level is that we have developed a welfare society and established a welfare state that provides all citizens with a certain level of material and social protection, based on the principle that everyone should provide as much as possible. Because we have two thoughts in our head at the same time, we in the Workers' Party want to pursue a policy that is tough on repeaters and organized criminals, and which at the same time has good and effective rehabilitation services, because people must, after all, return to society. Because we have two thoughts in our head at the same time, we have to be tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime. I am pleased that we have received a new majority in Norwegian policy, a majority that represents this whole of justice policy. It also bears the new budget. The new government's commitment to knowledge, care and health in the budget is, of course, a total form of crime prevention. A society with small differences between people also has less crime. Cut in the SFO, cut in culture, cut in school builds down the central crime prevention measures we have. The cuts in unemployment, the cuts in the local economy and the cuts in the care sector are exacerbating the situation to those who are at least already in the past. The policy of the last few years under the previous government was in several areas on the way to leading to greater differences among people and to a weakening of the social network in our society. It is also time for a new course in justice policy. When McDonald’s gets more customers, everyone sees that they open more restaurants. When the police get more criminals to deal with, people feel that they're shutting down police stations. This is a little bit of the picture that people are sitting out with. The resources of the police have increased in recent years, but the bias between expectations and results in this area also leads to a cry for privatisation among the political forces that are burning for it. I don't want a McDonald's police or a mail order police where they can buy themselves safe with money. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that the new government strongly opposes the privatisation of police power. The government is strengthening the appropriations made available to the police to ensure more visibility and closeness to people. We have all received telephones and enquiries about poor preparedness. At home in Hedmark we have had many examples that people have experienced not getting the help they expected there and then, because the police were overburdened. The police are too little present, they're too little visible, they're piled up with things, there's cows and there's trouble getting through the criminal cases. It's a situation we can't live with, because it affects people's sense of security. Security in the local environment is important for the quality of life of people. Police shall be visible and accessible to people. We need a close and strong police force all over the country. Therefore, it is good and necessary that the Government now strengthens the appropriations beyond what Mr Bondevik proposed. But in order to achieve results in preventing and combating crime, it does not just keep throwing money at the police. Cooperation with the public and non-governmental organisations, as well as inter-administration and at different levels, is essential. In Hedmark and in Agder police districts, the government will now set up pilot projects for co-location with public service offices, just to ensure people's proximity to the police. It is important to focus more on alternative forms of compensation such as community punishment, youth contracts and conflict advice against the youngest offenders. More attention needs to be paid to the rehabilitation of drug users. The post-protection work carried out, inter alia: in places like the Barm-Centre in Hamar, must be strengthened. So does the Government in this budget. I'm glad that the work on alternative forms of reconciliation is a priority task for the new government. I'm glad we've got a new government that manages to have two thoughts in its head at the same time, a government that is tough on crime, but that – even more importantly – is putting in the effort to prevent crime from happening. I look forward to a justice policy in the next few years when man is put in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e990	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e1003	The size should now go to voting in cases No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e1395	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 13 and 14, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2-4, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 5-12, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the The proposals are included on pages 47 to 52 of the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 15, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The President drew attention to the fact that IX under proposal No. 1 shall be deleted as it is identical to Proposal No. 14 The President also drew attention to the fact that proposal No. 10 is deleted as it is identical to proposal No. Eight. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals to cover any additional costs related to the NOKAS case in 2006.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e1433	The proposals are then put to the vote. 13 and 14 from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e1459	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5 to 12 from the Party of Progress, with the exception of points 9th@item: inlistbox As stated, proposal No is deleted. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e1507	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and to propose any legislative changes to a scheme where the person caring for the child while the other parent is in prison is considered to be a single-parent.’; The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e1524	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e1556	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. As stated, IX shall be deleted. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2006 is authorised under: Cape TownDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure61High cost [[(see section 4.4). cap. 470)]] IIThe Swedish Parliament agrees that the Ministry of Justice and Police in 2006 may: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 400 item 1 cap. 3400 item 1 cap. 410 item 1 cap. Item 3410, heading 3kap. 411 item 1 cap. 3411 heading 3kap. 412 item 1 cap. 3412 item 1 cap. 413 item 1 cap. 3413 item 1 cap. 413 item 21 cap. Item 3413, heading 2kap. 430 item 1 cap. 3430 items 3 and 4cap. 430 item 21 cap. 3430 item 2 cap. 432 item 1 cap. Item 3432, heading 3kap. 440 item 1 cap. 3440 items 2, 3 and 6cap. 441 item 1 cap. 3441 items 2, 3 and 5cap. Item No 1 cap. 3442 items 2 and 3 chapters. Item 455 1 Chapter. Item 1 of this chapter IIIOrdering powersThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Justice and Police in 2006 can order goods in addition to the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new orders and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostNameTotal Framework440Police Directorate – Police and Len’s Seat1Operating expenditure 40 million. kronor IVThe Board of Directors agrees that the Ministry of Justice and the Police in 2006 may decide that commitments are to be incurred under the continuing care expenditure scheme in addition to the appropriations allocated under the Chapter. 475 Outsourcing item 21 Special operating expenses, up to 10 million. kroner, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed 33 million. VNetbudgetingThe majority agrees that the Ministry of Justice and Police in 2006 may: 1. net the cost reduction under Chapter. 475 Property treatment item 21 Special operating expenses, income in connection with the holding of courses and conferences by the Board of Bankruptcy, and income from other activities of the Council.2. net as cost reduction under cap. 475 Property treatment item 21 Special operating expenses, reimbursed income under the arrangements for expenditure on accommodation. VIPre-delegation in Civil ServiceThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Justice and Police in 2006 can decide on the pre-delegation of crews as stated in the report under the heading. 450 Civil guardians in St. Prp. [[2005-2006]] No Add The President assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-01.ana.ud1774e5169	There is no record.
