ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e28	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of André Kvakkestad on leave of 13 and 14 April to attend the Council of Europe delegation to the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II, in St. Petersburg from the representative of Einar Steensnees on leave from 14 April to 20 April to attend the UNESCO Executive Council in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of the Vara, for Akershus County Harald Espelund and for Rogaland County Olaf Gedrem, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e53	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e76	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Knut Arild Hareide The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced parties, wish to ask themselves the main questions are asked. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e92	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The government has opened up extensive privatisation of parts of the Norwegian public general school. The Labour Party has warned against this, because we are afraid it may lead to a deterioration in quality, a decrease in public school diversity and an increase in social and economic differences in the Norwegian education system. Government parties have responded by referring to the experience in Sweden, where similar free slips from private schools were carried out during the 1990s. The most thorough and comprehensive evaluation of Swedish experience is now available, and the conclusions are clear: social inequalities have increased. Children with rich parents now go systematically to schools far more than children of low-income parents. The ethnic differences have increased. People with minority backgrounds are increasingly going to the same schools as people with ethnic Swedish backgrounds. The geographical differences have also increased. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does he not trust the scientific reports on the experience in Sweden, and why does the Government continue its work of privatising the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e103	I think it is excellent with a searchlight on the effects of free school legislation, both in Sweden and in Norway. First of all, Stoltenberg should innovate that we do not have legislation that is exactly the same as the Swedish one. Therefore, the transfer of experience is not provided without disclosure. Secondly, probably Stoltenberg has given a rather one-sided production of the findings in Sweden. Several studies are available to provide a more nuanced picture. But I don't need to defend the social democrats in Sweden, who have ruled while the law is in place. I expect them to feel a greater relationship with Stoltenberg. Thirdly, in the case of nationalities and their access to school: it is the Labour Party's policy that will lead to health schools becoming too rich. During the last budgetary procedure, the Labour Party cut off approx. 500 million. SEK in the post-secondary education grant, SEK 750 million. kr. That would have meant that someone on average would have increased the school money, I think it's about about. 180 pst., or put down schools. The Labour Party's policy for incubators is a policy for students with rich parents to go there. We think that is a bad social policy. We believe that the supplement that colleges represent should be for people with different incomes and from different social groups of the people. Of course, it is completely wrong that we are in favour of a comprehensive privatisation of public schools. It's under 2 pst. Of the students attending primary schools in Norway, about half of them are in primary schools. 4 pst. at secondary level. It is very modest, among other things. in relation to many socially democratically overthrown countries. In this case, they've been in favour of a huge privatisation of the school if we go in for it is so-called extensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e116	It is true that there are few private schools in Norway today. The problem is that the law passed by the Government opens up extensive privatisation. It looks like the one they have in Sweden, and there it is now over 10 pst. Total, but actually 20 pst. in metropolitan areas, which are now privatised secondary schools. This leads to great economic differences and great ethnic differences at a time when it is important to use school to smooth out both economic and ethnic inequalities in society. It is wrong that the social democrats in Sweden agree with what is now happening. They're warning against it. Last, social democrats did so at the National Assembly of the Workers' Party a few days ago. But they do not have a majority in their national Parliament to reverse legislation as they wish. It is true that the law in Sweden is somewhat different from the law in Norway. The main difference is that in Sweden it is free to go to private school, and in Norway it costs money. This means that social inequalities are likely to increase more in Norway than in Sweden. Therefore, Sweden’s experience is particularly serious, as it is likely to be even worse in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e125	The last comment from the Workers' Party was most amazing. It sounds as if Stoltenberg now thinks it should be free to go to the freshies. Even he has, of course, consistently promoted proposals that will make it much more expensive to go to the freshest schools. So where is the relationship in the argument? The working party has cut the appropriations, so that the school money has to be increased by approx. 180 pst. That's a pretty dramatic increase. This means that children from home with relatively poor finances may have problems going to schools with alternative pedagogics or in life-seeking schools. The Labour Party's policy means more expensive student places in schools, i.e. a policy so that children from home with a good economy can go there, children from home with a bad economy will not be able to go there. This is socially unlucky. This is the Labour Party's policy. Our law of free school makes clear demands, and quite restrictive demands, for the establishment of fresh schools. It was difficult to practice the previous law. That's why it's changed. Of course, we're going to look at the effect of the new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e132	The President will allow follow-up questions from four representatives in the order in which they are notified – first Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e135	Both in the context of the report that is now coming from Sweden, and also in the light of applications, especially at secondary school level, where commercial operators are now applying for, it can be seen that what they are applying for are general professional lines in urban areas. Then this opening, if you give permission to set up all these many colleges that are now being applied for, will mean a huge centralization of the school system. It will also mean the impoverishment of the other secondary schools, simply because you will have to set up school places to attend to the private applications. My question goes to these commercial actors. I have difficulty understanding why the Christian People's Party is holding its hand over commercial schools. That the Christian People's Party is for Christian schools and hospitals, I can accept, but why the Christian People's Party believes that these commercial actors are a blessing to Norwegian school, I find it hard to understand. Let me ask the question directly: does the Prime Minister regret that the law of free school did not provide for a paragraph which gave the county council a greater degree of opportunity to object and to stop applications when it obviously goes beyond the publicly funded schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e144	Now you should first see how things work with the applications that have been submitted. We don't know the outcome. There has also been a sharp reduction in the number of applications, as it turned out that many of the applications were not serious enough. So that scare image someone's tried to draw, that's not right. I also think that one reason why many applicants are now is that they see the possibility of a government change to the autumn, and therefore they are sending in applications now, in the hope that they will be approved before a restrictive policy may be put in place. In the case of municipalities and county councils, they shall give an opinion in this process and if they can point to negative consequences, which they must document, for example: failure of a public offer, there may be grounds for refusal. So the problem that Djupedal's representative raised here is just an example that it could be a no. SV will increase school money also in life school and in alternative educational schools – 750 million. kr cut SV. It'll be schools for rich people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e154	Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e157	It is not surprising that the Right is in favour of extensive privatisation of the public common school and wants more competition between schools and between pupils and teachers. And it's not just some private schools, it's thousands of places. Surprisingly, the Christian People's Party is in that gallery. I want to follow up on some of what the representative Djupedal brought up. Almost all states are opposed to such privatisation. I understand that the Christian People's Party is for a strong local democracy. The government is ultimately responsible for the result. And is it so that the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party will outrun the local people who actually believe that such privatisation will go beyond their ability to have a wide and decentralised offer in the states?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e164	We've just added a law to make the municipalities and states hear in this process, and if they can point out negative consequences, for example. failure of public offer or lack of learning places, they may say no. We understand the fear of that. We listen to the statements that come from the local team. The government is not for the extensive privatisation of Norwegian school. The government is in favour of a strong public school, and we have introduced a reform, the Knowledge promise, which will contribute to it. Free schools should be a supplement. It has traditionally been against the Workers' Party, they voted against the first law, they disagreed with eleven of the paragraphs of the next law that came, and so they will make the student places even in life-vision schools and in alternative education schools much more expensive, or lay them down through a stranglehold of the grant. SV goes in that way even further, they'll have even greater social differences in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e171	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e174	I think it's important that we also remember who the schools are for. As far as I know, there's a survey in Sweden that shows that 90 pst. of voters want to maintain freedom of choice for pupils and parents. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, when he first pointed out that going to high school costs money, and that in Sweden you have 100 pst. funding, i.e. the same Community funding for schools, whether run by the public or run by others: why can't we make sure that we do the same in Norway, so that we get the same level of equality that it would bring — that is, the same funding for schools and full freedom of choice for pupils and parents? The fact that the socialists won't go to remove the monopoly school, I understand -- they don't like freedom of choice, they don't like freedom of choice. However, it is fully possible to maintain Community funding but to give students the freedom of choice. Does the Prime Minister agree that competition between different schools will also stimulate all schools to provide better education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e179	It may be that there is a certain difference between the policies of the Progress Party and the Government in this area, because we want a strong public school, where most of the children see themselves worthy of walking. And they do that in Norway today. Free schools should be a supplement, and I think that supplement should be expressed by a real need. It's having a partial of 15 pst. is an expression that here there is a real need and a real desire. There shall be no release to start fresh oils in Norway. That's why I think it makes sense to have 15 pst. But, of course, it should not be increased strongly, as is the consequence of the Labour Party's and SV's budget proposals, because then it will be largely for children of families with good finances. The government has a social policy and believes that it is the child of parents who want an alternative life - vision school or pedagogical school, so they should be able to send their children there regardless of whether they are rich or have a lower income.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e186	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e189	Also within the Christian People's Party, there is great scepticism for the increased incidence of private schools, and the Christian People's Party out in the counties warns. The central party for its part is under the old private school law. We believe that it provides sufficient freedom of choice for those who want a different school offer, related to life views or alternative pedagogics. The question is, what was the problem with the old private school law? Why can’t the Christian People’s Party stand on it and thus prevent the possible future results from commercial private schools? And then I have to ask, according to what the Prime Minister said in a previous answer, that many applicants now because they think there is a change of government and fear that they will not get approval: is it also so that the government will approve the applications in the spring and summer of the current band, in fear of a change of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e196	Of course, we won't let a election date decide the process. This is being treated seriously. It's as well-known as the Education Directorate that decides these matters. The Ministry is only the Board of Appeal. We don't control the Education Directorate in terms of pace, either one way or another. I understand that local Christian People's Party politicians express scepticism, because there were a lot of applications. They all didn't work as well, and that's why the number is now going down. We do not want extensive privatisation. When the old private school law was changed, it was because it gradually became a little difficult to practice. We've seen that in changing governments. These included: a number of schools that sometimes tried to adapt to the two criteria that were then applicable, alternative pedagogics or life views. Marit Arnstad mentioned commercial schools. Of course, we don't want to develop it. There's an explicit prohibition in the law against dividends, i.e. commercial schools. That term I think you can put on the shelf. We have forbidden that, even clearer in the new law than in the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e207	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e210	I have a question for the Prime Minister about how he sees the Landsorganisation party holding its grip on the Workers' Party at the last national meeting. So now LO's leader is elected, in addition to Kjell Bjørndalen in the Joint League and Jan Davidsen in the Trade Union. I am thinking in particular of whether the Prime Minister will reconsider the question of the stability of the Workers' Party's representatives in local government and county councils, which has also given special advantages to the Trade Union and the trustees through an agreement. In many cases, the Workers' Party in many local governments does not represent the citizens and voters, but represents the party that the Trade Union is. They also have additional access to the representatives of the Workers' Party through the agreement with the Trade Union. This, I think, is a serious question of viability. I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister would also like to look at the sustainability legislation and question, so as to prevent having such special interests when bought and paid – as the LO has done with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e216	I also registered today that the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg, on the radio, something hesitant, but at least gradually admitted that there are arrangements for consultations and cooperation that can serve as a special advantage. I have not seen any reason to raise any questions about the stability of local government representatives in this way. Such agreements must be open. If they're open, I don't think there's any crucial question of stability. Something else is that I don't think it's lucky that this happens. The same applies to LO partying the Labour Party in national policy. There's no doubt about it. It is completely free for the Workers' Party to select three LO peaks from its central government. But that's a little interesting, given that last year the LO leader defended LO's independence because she had chosen not to go into central government, and then she does it one year later. She beats herself on her mouth in that way. I also think that this is an old-fashioned system, contrary to developments in most other countries, where the trade union movement sees itself as serving to be more equal to other parties. But this is, as I said, the election of the Labour Party and the LO. I think a lot of LO members are responding to it. 50 pst. of which, of course, are members of other parties, at least not members of the Workers' Party. You must feel this very difficult. The same is true of other trade unions, who feel that LO is in a special position in relation to the largest party in the country, which also has the ambition to become a government party. In this way, there should probably also be a problem for the two possible government partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e223	I thank you for the answer, but I really do not understand what the Prime Minister here is saying about stability, because the usual regulations on the stability of the local government are both family and whether you have close financial relations with someone who is a party to a case. Then you have to resign, for example. whether you are the owner of an enterprise for which you have to assess whether you are going to get a contract from a municipality. Even if it's completely open, it doesn't help. You have to step off as a stowaway, because it's a close link. It is exactly the same as the Workers' Party's representatives in local government and county councils – close economic dependency, where it is relatively easy to demonstrate that it can well be claimed that the Workers' Party's representatives have been purchased and paid by the trade union movement. Then it's within the normal criteria that you have to resign as an inhaler. I would again ask the Prime Minister to assess this, so that he takes much more account of the inhabitants of the municipalities than of those who have been bought and paid by a party in a conflict case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e230	Before the Prime Minister responds, the President must be allowed to state that the representative Hagen would like to use such a characteristic in the newspapers and in other contexts, but in the storeroom it seems inappropriate to characterize someone who bought and paid by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e233	I know the two criteria. I am not aware that the agreement between the Trade Union and some municipalities involves financial relations, which is one criterion in addition to family, which Hagen pointed out. But I would like to take a closer look at these agreements, which are obviously still available even after the Municipal Association entered the Trade Union, as Martin Kolberg admitted today. But, as I said, it is especially family and economic relations that in the event of the problem of stability raise, not necessarily a cooperation agreement itself. But that it's unfortunate, it's something else. And I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e238	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e241	I am very pleased with the signals sent by the Prime Minister now. I would like him to ask the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice to consider this question of stability a little further, because even if this agreement has been concluded without direct financial obligations, it is such that the Trade Union as such gives substantial sums of money to the Workers' Party in order to run an electoral campaign, among other things. Obviously, when the two things happen at the same time, the question of stability becomes very visible. We had something similar in the election campaign in 2001. It was not at the municipality level, but at national level, where the Workers' Party was pressured to change the position of the sick pay question, as the LO therefore threatened to take several million kroner in support of the Workers' Party. It's a parallel, and it's clear that it seems very unfortunate. It seems that when you receive money for taking different positions, you can then doubt the integrity of politicians. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that he will ask the Ministry of Justice to assess this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e248	The last thing we can't confirm, because as I said, I don't know that the cooperation agreements between the trade union and some municipalities contain financial obligations. That's why I said I would like to look at the agreement, if it does. Because that's what happens in the case of the sustainability legislation. As I said, I don't think it's particularly fortunate for a union to conclude such agreements with the municipalities that, as far as I understand, they get a preferential right to consultations before matters are decided, at the expense of and in contrast to other organisations. Our point is that it should be non-discrimination, and this is not an expression of it. But if it's affected by the rules of viability, I'm probably more in doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e253	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e256	If the Prime Minister has problems with the cooperation agreements between the Trade Union and Municipalities, he should take it up with his largest government party, Right, for the first agreement was concluded between a Right-Rapporteur and the Trade Union Confederation in the municipality of Sørum. But then to this with the cooperation between the trade union movement and the Labour Party. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the LO states as the reason for cooperation, namely that there is deep concern about the current government's policy in relation to the fundamental rights of workers, in relation to good pensions, in relation to sick pay, in relation to the increased unemployment experienced by the Bondevik government, in relation to a lack of industrial policy and in relation to the need for a community economy, which affects very many people who build well-being in Norway. We now see in the media that Stein Erik Hagen fully supports that policy. Does Bondevik think it is worse that those who work at Rimi and ICA, once again, give support to the Workers' Party than that Stein Erik Hagen, who owns these shops, gives it to the Prime Minister and his government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e263	The Prime Minister is not given any gifts of money, it is in the case of the parties that get it. But those who are rich in this context are the Labour Party and the LO. That's where the large amounts go. What goes to that party at least I know best, my own, is small money in proportion. So the rich in terms of gifts of money to the parties, that's the Workers' Party and the LO. And the reason for this is also bad. Now this was originally a debate on government representation. I wonder if Gerd Liv Valla has become so much more concerned in recent months with what she was last year, as she thought it was absolutely excellent not to sit in the central government of the Workers' Party, to mark independence. Now it wasn't enough for her to go in, another top leader in the lo had to go in – three pieces. We would never think of allowing donors who support the Christian People's Party to sit in our central government with triple representation. Well, the points that Giske mentioned, we could do point-by-point. We have no plans to change the law in relation to sick pay, we have an offensive industrial policy, we have put forward a good work environment law – which even Thorbjørn Berntsen said was good political craftsmanship. We have expanded the well-being of this country over the four years that we have been running.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e272	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e276	I have a question for Prime Minister Bondevik. Yesterday, the «Eirik Red» drilling rig released 1,6 tonnes of hydraulic oil into the Barents Sea. This is more than a thousand times more than after the permission that has been granted. And that is despite the fact that the company has repeatedly given guarantees that oil should not be released during drilling in the Barents Sea. This hydraulic oil is in the hazard class ‘next highest’ — i.e. ‘red’ classification, by the second most dangerous — and is thus also characterised by Statoil as a serious incident. My question is, what consequences can this have for Statoil? The situation is as follows: Statoil has given guarantees, they have received an emission permit that the thousands of times have exceeded, and it is the third time in a short time that “Eirik Raude”, this platform characterised as the most secure platform, has emissions to the Barents Sea, one of the most vulnerable ecological environments we have access to. And the question to the Prime Minister is, What consequences can this have, and should this have, for Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e285	Let me make it clear that the government also looks very seriously at the messages that have come here, in the same way as Øystein Djupedal. There are, as is well known, very strict requirements for exploration in the Barents Sea. There's zero emissions to the ocean that's the principle. There are very small margins in relation to what Djupedal knows. The SFT received a message about this event that Djupedal is now recording, on his guard phone at 0 p.m. 00.30 a.m. but no further facts about what had happened. We are very serious about this. If the information that has now come out is correct, it is totally unacceptable in relation to the requirements for exploration in the Barents Sea. The Ministry of the Environment has therefore asked the SFT this morning for a report reviewing the facts of the case and assessing the environmental impact of this release. Representatives of Statoil have also stated that they take this seriously. They have notified the authorities of the incident, and so far this hydraulic system, from which this release came, is closed. We have to, since this is just hours ago, get more facts the table before I can go further in prescribing consequences, possibly also for Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e294	I thank you for the answer, and I also thank the Government for taking this matter with the deep seriousness of the matter. I understand that the government, along with the SFT and others, needs to spend some time figuring out what to do after this. But what this with all possible clarity shows is that it is not possible to provide guarantees of zero emissions in the Barents Sea. These guarantees are given, there are strict environmental requirements imposed by the authorities, and the companies say we have to deal with zero emissions. But for the third time in a short time, it turns out that it's impossible. It's simply impossible because you're dealing with people, and you're dealing with a very difficult environment and also difficult conditions in the Barents Sea. This is, in my opinion, a good confirmation of why one should be careful to enter the Barents Sea with further activity. My question to the Prime Minister is this: Does he think that the examples we have seen recently can cause the authorities to withdraw the permits granted for drilling in the Barents Sea, and that the consequences are so serious that it can mean that Statoil and others who are now conducting test drilling are simply being withdrawn for the sake of the vulnerable ecological environment that is in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e303	I agree with Mr Djupedal that the Barents Sea is a highly vulnerable environment for drilling for petroleum. That is why the Co-operation Board has been very cautious, restrictive, demarcated areas and has made very strict demands. I also agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal, that we must be careful with further activity in this area. But to go so drastic to work when we have no more overview than we have at the moment, like notifying the withdrawal of permits, I can't now do over the Great Britain's pulpit. As I said, we need to get a more detailed report on what is happening here. Otherwise, I realize that this is about to become a very interesting theme if the three opposition parties were to win the election for the autumn. Because here's a deep disagreement between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e312	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jørund Leknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e315	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. What we've been witnessing here is a tragic environmental scandal. There is the release of hazardous hydraulic oil in a particularly sensitive ecosystem. This is an area that is very important for young fish. The objections to drilling in this area have been very large, including: from environmental organisations. But the interesting thing is that the discharge here could have been avoided, because March 15th the drilling permit was extended. Then “Eirik Red” had already had two accidents that led to emissions. The application was submitted for consultation to the departments concerned on 8 March 2005, including the following: The Ministry of Environment, but none of the ministries objected to the extension of the exploration period. Why did the Ministry of the Environment have no objections to the extension of the exploration period in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e324	The Minister for the Environment is now sitting here, so I think it is natural when a direct question is raised about the position of the Ministry of the Environment, that perhaps the Minister for the Environment could not answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e329	It determines the representatives of the Government entirely on an independent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e332	Then I ask the Minister for the Environment to respond to this, as it was directly addressed to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e337	There is no doubt that the event we have been notified of now is very serious. But the application that has now been dealt with was dealt with in the previous week. This is a new case relating to the Guovca area in the Barents Sea. So it was a new application that was dealt with last week. This is an entirely new case, and we have not had any emissions of the size that we experienced getting a message about yesterday. So this is a matter of the same size as before, I want to refute. This is a new case. The application was made in the previous week for the start of search drilling in this area. So we got a message about this last night. We've asked SFT for a report, and we'll wait for it before we evaluate what we'll do further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e344	In fact, the President perceived that the questioner addressed the question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, so that redispatch was completely correct. Inger S. Enger – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e350	My question also goes to the Minister for the Environment. It's on the Barents Sea. It has been a long time since absolute zero emissions were to be introduced as early as 2005. It is easy to put on paper, but it is obviously very difficult in practice. As you know, the Barents Sea is a delicate issue in a double sense. We're talking here about the world's most fishing seas, and in terms of growth and spawning conditions, this is one of the most important oceans in the world. So there's a lot of restrictions on oil business, and that's where it's going to fail. There must be an absolute requirement of zero emissions at sea. And now it's probably so that the concession is hardly being withdrawn. Then I would like to ask: what other sanctions does the Minister of the Environment or Government have against these oil companies to ensure that what happened yesterday, for example, never happens again?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e359	I would like to state on a general basis that the reports have shown that the petroleum industry has had good results in a relatively short period of time when it concerns the cooperation between authorities and industry in achieving the zero emission target. In particular, this applies to added chemicals. The government is running on zero. The paintings we have, among others. connect to the Barents Sea, to limit emissions as much as possible. When it comes to the things that have been mentioned here before, there is a 2,8 kg emission of category red, while the other emissions are of category green and yellow, which we do not see having the same environmental impact. So we're experiencing positive results here, but of course, we're looking very seriously at the information that's now coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e368	Grethe G. Fossum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e371	I want to ask the question to the Prime Minister or the Minister for the Environment – it depends on who wants to answer. The working party agrees with SV that the emissions in the Barents Sea are very unfortunate, both from an environmental point of view and also in relation to the confidence in the oil industry, if they do as best they can. I understand that this case cannot be resolved today, since it happened yesterday, but there have, after all, been two similar cases, so that the Ministry of the Environment should have made guidelines to prevent such things from happening. So my question both to the Minister for the Environment and to the Prime Minister is, what steps will be taken to ensure that this will not happen again? I'm not so concerned with sanctions – that it doesn't happen again, it's much more important than punishment. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that such emissions will not occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e380	Since I'm here, I choose to answer the question. Today, some of the world’s most stringent requirements are being imposed on the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea. The requirements must be met – it has been an intention. We now have to look at the things we have on the table, and the most serious one was the one we were told about last night. But I would say that for all the activities in the Barents Sea, if one fails to meet the requirements that have been set, it will have an impact on the future activity there. There are environmental requirements here that need to be met, and if one fails to do so it will affect the future activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e385	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e388	My question goes to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has commendably followed the Stoltenberg Government's orders to introduce 40 pst. the proportion of women in the boards of Norwegian ASA companies. The government has, quite rightly, stayed both business and the people with good reason to talk about this issue over almost the entire period of enlargement, but now the government will finally introduce a law decision into life from the fall of. This is one of the biggest interventions in private ownership done here in the country. The proposal is radical and naturally has produced reactions. Today, by looking up the media, we become aware that the Prime Minister does not use his own power to promote women in very important positions of leadership in the ministry. What is the Prime Minister's excuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e395	There is no need for an apology, because in the case of the proportion of women, it has increased in the case of senior management positions in the country. VG would have taken into account a particular period where there was no satisfactory development, but if we look in relation to earlier, when we started, it has been a good development, but not good enough. We aim to have 40 pst by 1 June 2006. by the heads of the State are women. Many measures have been taken to achieve this, and we are moving fast towards this goal. In 1997, when I formed my first government, the share was 22 p.m., and by the end of 2004, it was 35 p.m. Women in senior positions in the state, so that the growth is great, that is, about 50 p.m., and that is joyous. But there are great variations. In the defense, the women's share is low, but the defense works purposefully to increase it. I'm not satisfied with the proportion of women in the senior management positions in the state if you're just taking the top management level. Today it is approx. 23 pst. Of these positions occupied by women, we are therefore systematically also working to have one in this area, i.e. in the top management layer, into 40 pst. Otherwise, I guess I'll be allowed to add: it's no excuse that we have 42 pst at the Prime Minister's office, and in administrative management we're up to 60 pst, so soon the men have to start yelling at quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e402	I believe that both I and the Prime Minister agree that these are very important positions in our society, and I believe that there are no excuses that the Prime Minister has not now used power. The Prime Minister has had the highest political responsibility in this country for five years and eleven months, and when we go out with radical proposals in relation to Norwegian business, it is very important that we follow up on the appointment of important posts in both departments and external agencies. We know that there are some jobs we have good applicants for, it is precisely these jobs, and women are qualified. That's why I want to challenge the Prime Minister a little more specifically: why aren't today's figures better than they are? Because here it's about political appointments where a prime minister can use the power of rats.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e407	I'm using my power if I don't use it raw. I hope there is no tradition in the Workers' Party either. Among other things, I have the use of power to increase the number of female ministerial council posts in my time compared to the time when the Workers' Party was running, from two to five, in order to take a specific job category at the top level. So we're up to 35 pst. as regards the proportion of women in senior management positions in the country. The target is 40 pst. in a year, and I actually see opportunities to reach that. It shows that we've used our power to do this, and I agree with Karita Bekkemelm Orheim that this is important. The period covered by VG in its study — 2003–2004 — was, for example, also a period when there were very large shifts and very many new additions in the defense, and there is as well known the female proportion very low. It actually worked out in the statistics that very year. It's not an excuse, it's a fact. We agree. We think we're reaching the common goal we have. The Prime Minister has used his power to get it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e414	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e418	The Prime Minister here uses the argument that the sum of the state is doing quite well. But at the same time, statistics show that for some departments there is actually a wrong path. I experience that when the prime minister's government argues with business, it's not enough for business to show that it's going pretty well in sum. No, each enterprise must meet the 40 pst requirement. by each sex. When we then find that under the leadership of the Prime Minister, there are seven departments that do not even achieve the objectives of 2000 to 30 p.m. Women leaders, it must be allowed to ask what kind of concrete action the Prime Minister is now planning to take in order to achieve the goals of the Government with such power, just enough, facing private enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e423	I can mention some of the concrete measures. In 2002, under this government, we adopted guidelines for recruitment to senior management positions, among others. that among the final candidates for all positions of office, at least one female candidate shall be presented. In order to stimulate government leaders to seek wider experience and thus qualify for further leadership careers, pilot projects have been launched to promote mobility among heads of government. There are, of course, as well-known quite many who sit there for quite a long time, and sitting a well-qualified man, one cannot throw him out to get into a woman. The aim of this is to create more circulation and make it easier for leaders to change the subject area and the administrative area. Women are given priority in this project. We also consider any measures to stimulate women to address precisely these challenges. A recent study shows that women in the country have at least as much ambition as men. We are therefore now working specifically to ensure that they apply for leadership positions and that we achieve this. So I think Bjarne Håkon Hanssen with good reason can look back on the story, both on the government he himself was in, and on former labor party governments. Then you were much worse off.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e432	Heidi Sørensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e435	The study in VG shows that there are some departments that are worse than others. And some of us sitting in committees on the Stortinget may not need to see the statistics in the VG to know that. If we're on the Transport Committee, we just have to relish on the diplomats to see that the gender distribution is quite biased. The same can be said if you sit and deal with oil and energy issues. It is also clear from the study in the VG that both these departments have employed 0 pst. new female leaders. In Sweden, this has been taken more seriously than we have. It has been said that equality should be an objective of the transport policy, simply because it is important that both sexes are well represented when the infrastructure of society is planned. Can the Prime Minister join in and think a little bit wider about this, so that we get our equality shattered even in the heavy, man-dominated sectors of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e444	I agree with Mr Sørensen that this is important. And I'd like to look at new tools to get it done. For it must not be the case that departments that handle so-called soft matters and care matters have a good women's presentation, and that those who stand with so-called hard, heavy things, among other things. infrastructure, dominated by men. It's unfortunate. I think a more equal gender representation is important for priorities. So I'm going to take that with me – also what they've done in Sweden. In the case of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, as Sørensen specifically mentioned, in my prime minister's time a female ministerial council has been appointed. And that's the top position in the Oil and Energy Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e451	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e454	I want to follow up with a question about women's representation in business. The size has decided on the 40 pst rule with an overwhelming majority. And I'd like to pay tribute to the Council of State, Deavøy, so that she would finally put that matter before the Grand Council. There are many parties and many governments who have talked about it, but Davøy did something about it. If this 40 pst. presentation is not followed up by August 2005, we can implement a law. We then have a transitional period of two years for business to meet this requirement. The question to the Prime Minister is: What kind of concrete action does the Government intend to take in order to achieve the common goal we have in 40 p.m. representation? I am also thinking about information and information. I think that big business and government here should work together, because this is a matter we are a few about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e467	The last thing I want to answer is yes. I think it is excellent if government and greatness can cooperate on this, because this law was adopted by a broad majority. I am pleased with the tribute given by Eli Sollied Överaas to our Minister for Gender Equality, who, together with the Minister for Industry, drove this proposal forward and through. It was a very tough tool, and it shows that this government is taking equality seriously, even in the private sector. Now it has become a very debate about the dissolution of companies. I think it's going to be a derailment. Now we have to see how far we have come by the date Sollied Överaas mentioned. And it's absolutely right that if we haven't achieved the goal then, the law will come into force. That you have a natural inertia in the system, I guess, isn't surprising. A transitional period of two years is granted. I believe that new measures, information and information will be required, and that maybe you can also provide databases on women who are qualified to enter these boards, who can kill the myth that one does not have qualified women. Because I actually think one has.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e476	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e479	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister and the Minister for the Environment have recently been critical of what they believe is becoming a new government – polluting gas power plants and a bad environmental policy, it has been claimed. The remarkable thing is that the Right, on its side, has been out saying that today's government is the only guarantor to expand today's gas power concessions without new environmental requirements. The right is afraid that a new government will engage in dialogue with the builders to help increase CO2 emissions. It seems a little strange when today's government party Right argues that a new government will be both more and less environmentally friendly. One has to almost make up his mind in that way. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear whether the Prime Minister shares the Right's fear that a new government will mean more environmentally friendly expansion of the gas power plants that have already received a concession today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e491	The gas power stations that have been granted a concession have been granted a concession. It was the Workers' Party that gave, that is, the dominant party in the government alternative the Center Party prefers. It was those who gave these concessions, and we chose not to withdraw them. I have no fear that a labor party-dominated government will pursue a more environmentally friendly gas power policy. I've been afraid it'll be less environmentally friendly. For as I have read the Workers' Party's National Meeting Decision, they have not demanded that new gas power plants, in addition to the concessions they themselves gave, contain requirements for CO2 clean-up, or that they wait for a Kyoto quota system. These are the demands of the Cooperative Government. So Marit Arnstad, if she comes into this cooperation, will face a dominant partner who, as far as I understand, can open up highly polluting gas power plants in the period 2005-2008, when the Kyoto agreement enters into force. I hope that concerns Marit Arnstad, because we've seen the same thing about these questions. In fact, we also chose to go out of the government together because we were overrun by the majority of the population in these questions. Fortunately, the three contested gas power plants from that time on have not yet been realised, but Marit Arnstad is in danger of being under pressure for much more to be authorised.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e502	When there's such a big gap between what the Christian People's Party says and what the Right says about a possible new government, one should perhaps be a little careful about going so high on the track with what can actually be a new government policy. Both the Workers' Party and the Centre have said that they want a dialogue with today's developers to increase the CO2 management of the concessions given. Director of Natural Power Ole Rønning says that a new technology could be interesting if the state were willing to discuss it, but he has not met any particular interest in today's government. It's starting to rush, because the investment decisions for Kårstø can soon be made. What is going to be the Government's further gas power policy in relation to the gas power builders that have been granted a concession? Will it already take the initiative to contribute to the more environmentally friendly development of the concessions granted? It's starting to rush, and you might want to clean it up before a voter goes out with the kind of rhetoric that the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Environment have done lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e512	It is well known that the Government will provide co-financing for CO2 clean-up, also in relation to concessions given. We think it would be excellent if that were the result, but we haven't found it right to change or withdraw the concessions that the Workers' Party gave. This is not rhetoric, but it is a demonstration of the fact that there will be serious problems with environmental policy with the option that stands out. The working party has not made such strict demands as regards the purification of future gas power stations as the Cooperative Government has done. We require CO2 management or an allowance system. As you know, this has not been done by the Workers' Party. And then the Center Party will have a protective break and won't have any particular predators in Norway. So this I think is going to be a terrible blasphemous environmental policy. There will be no red-green government. It's going to be pretty much red.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e525	There will be three follow-up questions – first Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e528	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for the Environment. I would like to remind you that it was actually not the previous government, but it is this government that has given concession to a highly polluting gas power plant in Hammerfest. Perhaps the Prime Minister should not forget that. But the Minister for the Environment has said on several occasions that a new, red-green government will exacerbate environmental policy by going in for polluting gas power plants, while the Government's own gas power policy cracks in every direction. On the one hand, a red-green government believes will be a threat because it will pursue a policy that is environmentally friendly, while on the other hand, the Left says that CO2 should be removed from the first gas power plant being built. This is not a reality, but it shows the rift in today's government. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: What will Hareide do to contribute to CO2 management from the gas power plants that have already been granted a concession? And does the Minister for the Environment think that access to free climate allowances is a good contribution to CO2 management?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e551	Yes, it is true that I have said that any new, red-green government will lead a poorer environmental policy. It's because they differ in areas by area. There is disagreement about protection; there will be a break for the centre. There is disagreement about gas power plants; there will be full gas flow of the batch of workers. There is disagreement about coastal zone policy. So in the field of environmental policy, there is disunity, while we have shown that we can lead an offensive and good environmental policy, and we have the Sem Declaration that we are good at. The Sem declaration also clearly states that new concessions to be granted shall require CO2 treatment until we have an allowance system in line with the Kyoto Protocol. In the case of the concessions already granted, Einar Steensnæs said in the gas message he provided that we are willing to provide co-financing if it would be profitable to build a gas power plant. We are also committed to research in this field, and it must be our goal to achieve a better system, so that we can secure the technology required for CO2 handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e564	Heidi Sørensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e567	My follow-up question goes to the Prime Minister, because his answer amazes me. He is concerned that after the election there will be a build-up of gaseous power plants. And he's only a few months before those who have concession today, Natural Power, announce that they will make an investment decision. If there was the fight against the polluting gas power plant Bondevik was really most concerned about here, he would be on his head to make sure that investment decision is not made. It is the greatest danger that gaseous power plants will be built in Norway. The Sem Declaration states that ‘framework conditions allowing the realisation of CO2-free gas power plants’ shall be provided. But there's no dialogue with Natural Force about it. Ole Rønning says to the newspaper that if the government wanted to bet, we could have gotten CO2 cleaning now. He says there is no dialogue with the Government to remove the emissions from the concessions that have already been granted. Will the Prime Minister set up such a dialogue so that no polluting gas power plants are built in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e582	Einar Steensnæs made it quite clear when he was Minister of Oil and Energy, that the Government will consider co-financing for CO2 cleaning also for projects where the Workers' Party has granted a concession. We'd like to reinforce the dialog if it's possible. As you know, this government has also earmarked a fund of DKK 2 billion in contributions to the development of such projects. I agree that we should avoid highly polluting gas power plants. Those who come, and with whom the Workers' Party – with whom SV is now going to cooperate – have been allowed, we have not found it right to withdraw. The problem for SV must be that if they come into government with a dominant working party for the autumn, the Workers' Party has not put any scandals against new concessions for highly polluting gas power plants from 2005 until 2008, as we agree that this should enter an international Kyoto quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e592	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e595	Sometimes it seems that the Prime Minister has a little theoretical relationship with gas power plants and pollution, because it is not right what he says that three concessions have been given to gas power plants in Norway. Four concessions have been granted to gas power plants in Norway. The only thing that is physically in the process of being built and will soon begin to release mass CO2, a highly polluting gas power plant, as the Prime Minister calls it, is located on Melkøya, and it is his government that has authorized. So it seems like there's a difference between the gas power plants that he gives permission to, and that pollutes strongly, and those that other governments have authorized, and that haven't even been built. The significant difference is that the gas power stations to which he has authorised will worsen the climate in the world. Then the question is, how can he, who runs that policy, attack another, possible government to crack? For example, Halleraker from the Right claims that his government, that is, Bondevik’s government, is the only one that can guarantee more highly polluting gas plants. So it's absolutely right, as Arnstad's representative says, that Bondevik and the Government have to decide. Will a new government lead a better or a worse environmental policy in Bondevik's eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e605	A new government opens up to pursue a clearly worse environmental policy. Perhaps this matter has in fact been lost within the Workers' Party. He has now participated in a programme that does not require CO2 management for any new gas power plants until a new post-Kyoto allowance system comes into place in 2008. This should be SV's problem, the central party's problem, but also Giske's problem. It's a fact. We have made such demands. This has not been done by the Workers' Party. I'm probably the one in the hall here that has a least theoretical relationship to this. I have such a concrete relationship with it that I actually went off because the Giske party was in and overrun the center government on this issue. In the case of Snow White, I almost have to wonder if the Workers' Party is now against the Snow White project. This is an integral part of that project. It was clarified in the Sem statement. As Giske now says, it could almost seem as if the Workers' Party is against the project that has now really created optimism in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e618	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e623	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative May Hansen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, is moved at the request of the Council of State and answered before question 1. Question No 9, by the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Defence, lapses because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e634	So let's start with question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e641	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘There is considerable uncertainty around the country as to the criteria to be used to obtain recognition as a private child protection institution under the Children’s Protection Services Act § 5-8. Some have only received approval, which has since been withdrawn. Institutions in which mother or father and child live together have been granted their approval, despite the fact that parents under 18 live in these institutions. Does the State Council believe that children who have children should not receive an offer approved by law on child protection services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e655	Housing measures for parents and children, maternity homes, differ from the child protection institutions by providing care for the child to parents and not to the institutional staff. Children’s protection institutions place the child without parents, while housing measures take the child and parents together. The housing arrangements, the so-called furniture cabinets, shall provide housing, guidance and training on parenting both above and below the age of authority. At child protection institutions, parents are absent and the institution takes full care of the child. Staying in housing facilities, the so-called furniture houses, among others, is always based on volunteering, while staying in child-care facilities can also be carried out on the basis of coercive decisions. Children’s protection institutions and housing measures have different target groups and tasks, and therefore different requirements need to be imposed on them. This is part of the background to the fact that housing measures for parents and children are not regulated in the same way as the ordinary child protection institutions and are not subject to the authorisation rules applicable to the institutions. Some regions of the BUF budget had unfortunately misunderstood this, and some of the housing measures were therefore subject to an approval procedure, which later led to the withdrawal of the authorisations. Although the authorisation rules for institutions do not apply, quality and soundness of the offer are required. Housing measures for parents and children are an important and necessary offer. The Ministry has therefore made it clear to the Ministry of Children, Youth and the Family that such measures should form part of the region’s response apparatus. It is further clarified that it is important that the regions examine and monitor the professional soundness of the offers. This is also clarified in Ot.prp. No 64 for 2004–2005, recently promoted by Stortinget. Housing measures for parents and children are also covered by the payment and reimbursement schemes applicable between country and municipality. Finally, for the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Ot.prp. No 64 has been proposed to change the concept of ‘moor home’ to ‘home care for parents and children’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e666	I thank you for your answer. I wasn't quite satisfied. The Ministry of Children and Family decided last autumn that parental-child institutions should no longer be defined as child protection institutions. Many of them were defined as from then on, despite the fact that very needy parents who themselves are under 18 years old live in these institutions. Everyone is referred to you from Child Protection. Many come directly from other child protection measures where they can no longer be because they have become pregnant. It is incomprehensible that when one child becomes two children, you should not have the same legal certainty as you had in the measure you lived before you became pregnant and gave birth to a new child. This is an offer of care around the country that is extremely important. Many of these children do not receive further care from their parents. In some places, there are also children living alone, without parents, in these institutions. Who will take responsibility for these children? Who does the Council of State think is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e675	It's possible we're talking a little bit past each other. The fact that mothers who live in their mother’s homes with their children, even under the age of 18, are not at all problematic or unusual. In such cases, it will be the parent's parents who have parental responsibility for the mother, while the mother herself has parental responsibility for her own child, even if she herself is not competent. However, if Mother herself is under the care of the Child Welfare Service, as the representative here suggests, a problem may arise in the case of the furniture placement, because the law now requires that only approved institutions can be used for children covered by the law. In these cases, Mother will be a child covered by the Child Protection Act. However, if the Child Welfare Service considers that mother is able to provide care for her child, which is what is actually required for maternity accommodation, it is little natural that mother herself should be under the care of the Child Welfare Service, and the care decision should therefore be able to be repealed in such cases. We in the ministry have not received any enquiries or signals from the regions or municipalities that this creates problems, but if it should do so against presumptuously, we will of course, in cooperation with the department, look at these questions and clean it up. But as I said, we are not aware that this has caused problems per person. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e684	I know positively that there is a complaint from the department that the institution is not approved. But if parent-child institutions in the country are not to be recognised in the same way as child-protection institutions, how are they to be approved, and who is to supervise these types of institutions? When these institutions are not approved today, they have fallen out of their supervisory responsibilities. Then I wonder: Does the Council of State think this is sound? I believe that this is not in line with the decision taken by this magnification when we reorganised the County Child Protection Agency. There has already been an authorisation scheme here. These are children who are referred from child protection and come from child protection measures. A lot of them do, and many of these don't have any particular care. These are well-prevented child protection measures, and this is the responsibility of the Council of State. What will she do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e689	We need to distinguish between the defined child protection institutions, where one can of course be voluntary, but also under care. These measures, which are represented by the so-called'moors', are always based on voluntary activities, and that is what is the big difference. As I said in my reply earlier, these institutions must be required – quality and soundness requirements. This shall be followed up by the Children’s, Youth and Family Status. But once again, if it turns out that there are elements in this conversion that create problems, the ministry will of course look into this. It will also be important to know where to possibly have these kinds of problems, so that we can look at them more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e694	Then we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e701	I will be asked the following questions: ‘Through the media, I have been aware that Fire Stadium needs to refurbish the chairs. Most of the chairs in the stadium are red with some whites. The white chairs formulate the company name Hansa. The reason for the refurbishment should be that the beers are the largest when they see the name Hansa. Hansa has our Firen's main sponsor every year. What do the Council of State have to do with this, and what is the foundation?'
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e710	Let me first point out that the premise for the matter we are about to deal with is hardly that the Hansa name is located there as a cultural memory from the Hansa era. It concerns the ban on advertising alcoholic beverages, one of many alcohol policy instruments that Norway has had since 1975 and that have been subject to broad political consensus. The Norwegian advertising ban is of an overall nature. This means that the exceptions to the prohibition are few and narrow. Among other things, indirect advertising is not permitted, i.e.: advertising that is perceived as an advertisement for alcoholic beverages. The global nature of the ban makes it effective in preventing the exposure and generalisation of alcoholic beverages as commodities. If we allow indirect advertising, we will erode the effect of the advertising ban. Advertising is communication and crucial for its impact is how the message is received. In a judgment of 21 January 2000, the Supreme Court held that theme advertising with brewer’s logo is subject to the ban on advertising, as it is designed in the law today. The issue was defined by the Supreme Court in such a way that it is crucial how advertising is perceived. The Supreme Court stated that if ‘any part of them to which the advertising relates is not insignificant, it must be presumed that they would regard it as alcohol advertising’, the advertising is illegal. The judgment must be understood in such a way that it is essential that advertising be associated with alcoholic beverages, not with alcohol, for example. used image of the brewery’s products, reproduction of the brewery’s logo or only the brewery’s name. At the latest in Ot.prp. No 86 for 2003-2004 the ban on advertising was subject to a thorough discussion where the need to continue to have a complete advertising ban was stressed by the Government. There was a broad majority in the UK that joined the Government's proposal that we should continue to have such an overall advertising ban in Norway. The advertising ban is enforced by the Directorate for Social and Health, such as: may decide that an infringement of the advertising prohibition shall be corrected. If the infringements are not rectified, the offenders may be liable for periodic penalty payments. In the case of Fire Stadium, no decision has yet been taken. I have been informed by the Social and Health Directorate that a prior warning of a decision has been sent on the matter. I am confident that the Social and Health Directorate will enforce the legislation in the best possible way and according to the guidelines that the Stortinget and the Supreme Court have drawn up in that judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e723	Thanks for the answer. It was not expected that there was such an answer I would get about the promise of advertising. It's clear that the promise is important. But then the council says one has to associate it with alcoholic beverages. No, it's not like that to me. That Hansa produces beer, we can verify. Hansa town is Bergen. There's no doubt about it. The product for Hansa is shower and Olden water. So it gets wrong, I thought, when a person is just busy focusing on the alcoholic in what Hansa produces. It is good to have a completely different approach to the decision on advertising bans than that of the Council of State. First of all, a not Hansa name doesn't look, because it's full of stands when Firen plays football matches. But the point is that this name has been there every year. Hansa has our main sponsor for Brann since 1928. Can't be a little modest and think Perlebrus instead of beer when you watch it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e732	The views of the representative of Frøiland are quite reasonable, but they reveal that she may not have been particularly closely involved in the debate on indirect advertising of alcohol in Norway, on which the Social Committee of the Stortinge has been closely involved. The majority of the committee stated in the position I referred to instead, and that majority therefore includes the party representing Frøiland, that ‘a ban on indirect advertising for alcoholic beverages is absolutely necessary in order to streamline the ban on direct advertising for alcoholic beverages’. They refer to – and this is interesting in relation to the approach taken by the representative of Frøiland – the problems of the use of beer logos in advertising non-alcoholic beverages. Among other things, it is shown that: that this has been the case in the so-called Ringnes case, a brewery that, as I know, also produces a number of other non-alcoholic products than beer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e737	It is possible that I have not followed, but I believe that I am quite outstanding anyway. I've accepted what a did with the themes, and I didn't ask any questions about it. But it's also possible to have room to exercise flexibility and understanding in connection with this. I thought "Hansa" on the trusts in the stadium was going to be something completely different. I sincerely hope that the directorate will make some other assessments after this round than the Council of State does.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e744	It is according to what the Storting has said, passed by law and given by leaders, neither the Council of State nor the representative of Frøiland to decide this, but it is the Directorate, as it is said here. The Directorate must do so within the guidelines drawn up, with the discretion in it. I don't want to go in and shoot that conclusion, but say that I feel obliged by what a majority of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre said in the Social Committee as late as in a position that was issued before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e755	I will be asked the following questions: ‘The Norwegian Food Agency nectars a sheep farmer from Hedmark to pick up two texels from Rogaland. The reason is afraid of scrapie, although no scrapie has been detected in Rogaland for many years. The national competence of farmed animals has not been consulted. The Food Authority believes that instead the farmer should import vers from Denmark. Is the Council of State saying that it is better to import live animals from Denmark than to transport sheep from Rogaland to Hedmark?»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e764	For many years, there have been strict restrictions on the movement of small ruminants across county boundaries. The background is to take into account the risk of spreading disease with small ruminants. This was absolutely necessary in the fight against first medi in the 1970s and 1980s and later scrapie. These are diseases with long incubation times and difficult diagnostics. The use of the county as an administrative unit for the purpose of trafficking in live animals has been shown to be successful in the control of diseases that are difficult to detect. This practice has also been supported by industry. If we are to have the objective of eradicating Losing Diseases as mentioned, there will still be a need for regulation in this area. However, the Food Safety Authority has rules that allow an assessment of the type of action required in each case, including whether movement above the county border may be permitted. With regard to imports from abroad, it follows from our regulations, which are based on common EEA provisions, that imports may take place if certain conditions are met. Those provisions also contain requirements concerning scrapie. Among other things, samples shall be taken in the herd of origin if the animal does not have specific genes. However, when animals legally introduced come to the country, the same strict rules apply to them as to Norwegian herds. Contact with other flocks and movements of animals is regulated according to the health status of the herd. This has proved to be a good control. Based on historical disease data, our national control of scrapie may be less likely to spread disease associated with sheep from Denmark compared to sheep from Rogaland. However, food surveillance assesses this on a case-by-case basis. The Food Authority is currently reviewing large parts of its legislation on small ruminants. For approx. Six months ago, the Food Authority appointed among others: a working group entrusted with the task of assessing the practical control of major small ruminant diseases. The results of this work are expected to be completed in August. On this basis, the Food Safety Authority, in consultation with the professional communities and industry, will propose possible regulatory adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e777	The centre lot has a strong commitment to ensuring good animal health in Norway. We are pleased that the Council of State also has, but the greater the reason for reaction to this matter. Rogaland has a very good overview of sheep diseases. Very many sheep are tested, including: because the section for small fescue testing of the high-fat veterinary sphere is located in the county. Norway has an effective monitoring of scrapie through the Veterinary Institute, better than in most EU countries. The crew that we're talking about here is cleared for scrapi. So it hasn't been a classic scrape in Rogaland for many years. In Denmark, fewer animals are examined. Monitoring has not been as good as EU countries, and Denmark is subject to free movement between countries. Danish sheep are also more prone to diseases that we do not have in Norway, nor have they been diagnosed by sampling and import. Is it really that the Council of State will not act on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e786	I refer to my answer. A working group that assesses this will make an appointment in August. We'll be waiting for it before we evaluate changes in the legislation. But I think it is important to say that I think the problem of the representative is completely wrong, because moving on animals – and beings in particular – always represents a risk of spreading disease. We have to try to define that. In the few cases where the Food Safety Authority grants access to it and it has access to it, the benefits must obviously be greater than the risk it presents for the spread of infection. Fortunately, today, technology makes it possible to get the breeding gains, among other things. from the texel-sauene, which one wants to get in to get stronger thighs in Norwegian sheep. They can be obtained by using artificial insemination. The farmer on Hedmark can travel to the beautiful Staur farm on Hedmark where the most beautiful places in the country stand, not to pick up a weather, but to pick up the semen and lay in on their ewes and get the best texel-beings one can get. That way, we're able to get breeding without the spread of infection. That's what the Food Authority recommends, not to choose Denmark over Rogaland, but to choose the new technology that eliminates the risk of spreading disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e793	I'm surprised that the Council of State is recommending insemination, which also leads to complications. I think he's aware of that. Then I am also surprised at the procedure that is being taken into account in these kinds of cases. Let me remind you that the national competence of farmed animals has not been consulted at all. Competence lies in Rogaland. They can find the genotype of the vera. This means that they can do well for anyone who can move across borders without spreading. I want to encourage the Council of State as strongly as I can, to go into this matter. I know he's busy with quality sauce himself. He knows about Rogaland County, Rogaland County. Here, too, there must be other arrangements. I would like him to be actively involved in the legislation that is now and in the procedure that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e800	I can confirm that I am busy with quality soap. In the case of rams, I am most concerned with the quality of the sperm, and it can be obtained without spreading disease. The representative of the Central Party here points out that there are complications in insemination. It may be more boring, but it's unusually good in breeding, and it ensures that one doesn't spread disease. So I would like it not to be hanging again after this. One can also get the best breeding material from this beautiful Texel breed without risking the spread of infection by itself and its neighbours, and that's what the Food Authority wants us to get and do more of. So it is that historically, very many of the animal diseases of small ruminants have come from Rogaland. It's a historical fact, as I said in my answer. In this case, it is also the case that scrapie, which is now feared, has never been detected in Denmark. So professionally, I think the Food Authority is on the dry spot. But they don't recommend any of the parts, because they recommend using the modern methods that make us not at risk of spreading infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e811	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The Directorate-General for Taxation has inter alia: on their websites, it is stated that where missing information from the donor has been provided or other errors made in the reporting to the tax authorities, the deduction of donations to charitable organisations may be refused. This means that a donor may lose a deduction even if he can prove that the donation has been given. Will the Council of State take the initiative in rectifying this, so that donors who can document gifts receive the deductions they are entitled to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e820	The provision for the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations is laid down in the Tax Act. Regulations of the Tax Act require that the central point of the voluntary organisation is to provide the information necessary to the Tax Directorate for deduction of the donor’s income. We have wanted a most unbureaucratic and simple system. It has been the starting point for our design of this legislation. It is necessary to require that it is the organisation and not the individual taxpayer to report information. By making such a requirement, the Equation Authority will have a limited number of organisations to deal with and not many thousands of taxpayers. Furthermore, by requiring the reporting by organisations, it is possible to require the provision of machinery reporting, which is essential in order to create a system which does not impose any significant additional burden on the authorities of the equation. The deadline for reporting is 20 January of the year following the year of income. Organisations may correct errors in reporting by 24 April of the same year. Tax collectors who have not received any deductions in their pre-filled declaration that they consider to be eligible must themselves enter the amount in their correction. The tax authorities will then check whether this is consistent with the information provided by the organisation. If the organisation has not fulfilled its reporting obligation by 24 April, the taxpayer may lose the right to deduct. I see that the provision could have unfortunate consequences by refusing to do so to donors who initially have a right to deduct because of reasons that are due to the recipient organisation. However, in the light of the reasons justifying the claim, I do not wish to derogate from the requirement that disclosure of the gift must be given in machine processable form of deduction. Another solution could have very adverse administrative effects. In my opinion, the ability of an organisation to correct errors is sufficient to ensure that the taxpayer is also taken into account. However, there is reason to consider whether the time limit for the correction of errors may be too strict. I want to take this up with the Tax Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e835	I want to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer he gave, which I feel is a partial attendance, and that he wants to look at this and make it a little simpler and more flexible. It is now the case that Chapter 6 of the Equation Act establishes a duty for a number of third parties, without the fact that compliance with this obligation has become a decisive factor in the tax treatment. It shall apply, inter alia, to: interest on debts. I would like to ask this question to the Minister of Finance: what makes it more demanding to deduct gifts from voluntary organisations than, for example, they do. deducted from interest expenditure on loans raised abroad? The policy is that if this has not been reported, tax payers can carry it on and get the deduction from the local Equation Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e844	It is in the good old progress point of view that the tax system should be made as simple as possible and that there should be minimum red tape in setting up new deduction schemes. This deduction scheme, that is, for gifts, has become very popular, and I also expect the number to grow. Therefore, it is necessary for the recipient organisation to report on this in machine processable form, as it is called, which is essential. I would like to add that if you give gifts to organisations that do not acknowledge having received them, you should stop doing so – at least to that organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e851	I fully understand that reporting is to be done by organisations, and that it needs to be set up to do so without problems in most cases. But here it's like if, for example, the donor fails to give the birth number on the bank giro at the time of payment may have the consequence that the charitable organisation cannot report the gift to the tax authorities. There may also be other errors on the part of the charitable organisation that result in incorrect reporting. Then I thought it was strange that the taxpayer should not have the opportunity to correct this on the self-notification, if the taxpayer can document 100 pst. that a gift is given to a charitable organisation, which thus results in the donor being entitled to a gift deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e860	For example, tax collectors are obliged to provide correct information also to those organisations that are obliged to report to the equality authorities. It is a liability the taxpayer has, also in this area. Then I think it is important that in order for a gift to be deductible in the equation in relation to tax, the gift must be recognised. So the recipient organisations have a deadline from the beginning of January to 24 April to correct any errors. I think that's a good time. We have said that we should also assess whether this deadline should be extended for organisations. But there will be a system that can unfortunately easily be abused, if, after that deadline, there will also be the possibility for organisations to correct errors, i.e. to acknowledge having received a gift that has not been discovered until long into the following year. It opens up abuse mechanisms, and I'd like to avoid that, because this is a good system, which also relies on considerable trust in the organisations that receive gifts. That is why we have said that there must be a central link that receives the gift, in order to obtain the adequate documentation directly to the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e871	‘The handling of the NOKAS case by police and Stavanger has impressed most of us. Such a horrifying crime shall be detected and shall be responded to. It is important that such investigations and corrections do not affect other measures to combat crime. It is now reported that there is too little prison capacity to deal with the case. It is also important for the Stavanger court to be allocated resources. Will the Council of State ensure that the capacity of the prisons and the Court of Justice is strengthened so that other work is not impaired?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e878	I agree with the representative of Storberget that the handling of the NOKAS case is impressive. The correction of this case poses major challenges to both the police, the court and the criminal justice system. Criminal services have the capacity to deal with this and will contribute to the effective implementation of the case. This will happen without release beyond the practices resulting from the rules in force. The Government's view of this type of crime is very serious, among other things. the proposal for additional appropriations for the NOKAS case in the order of magnitude was made in the context of both the revised national budget 2004 and the changes in the appropriations for the 2004 harvest. 50 million. kr. In St. prp. No 14 for 2004–2005 was also briefed that research and follow-up will require resources in 2005 and that the Ministry of Justice would come back to the case if necessary to underline the very special nature and seriousness of this case. I can confirm that there will be extra expenses also for the court and the criminal service in connection with the NOKAS case. Measures are thus considered not to impair capacity, inter alia. in criminal custody. The Government will come back to the case in the context of the revised national budget 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e889	I thank you for your answer. I feel that at least we have common intentions and common goals in relation to this type of crime. It is well on the verge that many of these kinds of things that get such an amount become problematic to correct – at least it becomes a difficult challenge – when we know that there is such a big imbalance in the criminal justice chain as what we are experiencing today, where, among other things, it is. are cows in front of prisons, and where the courts already feel a relatively high pressure. Does the Minister of Justice see that it will now be important to achieve precisely this balance in the criminal justice chain, get rid of the atoning cows, get rid of the queues in front of the courts, just in order to meet these kinds of challenges, which unfortunately we do not seem to get fewer, but perhaps more?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e898	With regard to this very specific matter and its very serious nature, I have underlined it, and I have explained how it is handled. I perceive that the representative and I share the same view of it. What I am particularly pleased about is that we have managed to get so far to both the court and the police in relation to this matter and matters in its wake. I also agree with the representative that it calls for everyone, both to the police, who has been given important tools to combat this type of crime, to courts and to criminal justice. Now it's like all of these terms have been strengthened, but as it turned out in the interpellation debate yesterday, we've done a lot on the crime scene, but we have to do more. I guess that's some of the nucleus of the answer. But then this is unfortunately complex, for many of those in line, because people who can be in simpler conditions than those who belong to the most organized crime, so that the general answer to the general question is: Yes, I see the need for such a balance, and we have to have it. But in the case of the NOKAS case, it's important that we implement it with the strength that has existed. It is absolutely crucial, I think, for a total trust in Norwegian society that this crime is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e907	I thank you for the answer, which I am very pleased with. I just want to use this opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice – which I am sure he will have the attention to – especially in this process to be vigilant in the situation in Stavanger Tingrett. We often talk about police and detention centres. The staff of the Court of Justice are often the quietest. We don't hear much from them in the press and the like. I have visited Stavanger Tingrett, and experience that it is a well-run thing right, but that has many complex, big things, partly because of offshore, but also because of some other circumstances, and that have now received this burden. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice in his description that the actors here have run this case in an exemplary way. Without going into that matter, but to comment on the process – this is also true of Stavanger Tingrett: My call is that in the time we now go into, where the case gets its main weight in the legal system, there is a particular vigilance against the property court, which has a huge challenge in relation to the liquidation of this case, and that the administration of the courts and the ministry ensure that this does not become such a heavy burden that the court gets a perpetual run.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e912	I share the representative's view of Stavanger Tingrett based on the experiences I have had, and with all due respect for the fact that we now have an independent court administration. I said in my answer the following, and I would like to repeat it: ‘The course of this case presents major challenges to both the police, the courts and the criminal justice system.’ That's the whole criminal case chain I'm thinking about when I'm talking about the challenges in this case, both in terms of the seriousness of the matter and its special nature. I have expressed myself that way because I see that there is such a total connection, and therefore I have probably also answered the representative's question to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e926	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘One of the summer plagues along the E6 in Bohuslän and Østfold are road pirates robbing camping and residential tourists who spend the night in this area. Before a new summer season one fears that this crime will flare up again. This destroys, for example: for tourism. What will the Council of State do to prevent the roadside?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e935	Initially, I would like to point out that through preventive and enforcement activities, the police are to ensure that it is safe to travel anywhere in the country. However, crime is also increasingly cross-border and organised. As far as cross-border activity is concerned, it also challenges the ability of coordinated crime prevention across borders. In connection with the question asked by the representative, contact has been made with the Directorate of Police, such as: has informed that Østfold and Follo police districts have registered approx. 10 cases in 2003 and approx. 6 cases in 2004 of the type of crime described in the question. Crime has been primarily linked to the E6 in Rygge and Ås municipality. In 2003 and 2004, several measures were taken by the police to prevent and prevent this type of crime. In cooperation with the State Road Administration, signs were put up in vulnerable places that explain in German and English that you are in an area where there is a risk of such crime. In addition, the presence of the police along the E6 in the area concerned intensified. In 2005, the police plan to intensify their presence further. A separate project has been established in the area such as: addresses this type of crime. In addition, further prevention measures such as signage are under assessment. Eastfold police districts cooperate with the police in Sweden on both prevention and investigation in the specific cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e948	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am fully aware that the problem in Eastfold has been far less topical than, for example, the problem in Eastfold. in Bohuslän, where there have been a large number of such cases. As far as I know, 160 was reported in 2003 in Sweden, and 105 in 2004, a certain decrease. Sweden has had this earlier than Norway, and measures have been taken. It is reassuring to hear that we are now continuing to work on this in Norway as well. Certain measures have been put in place, this should be further developed and increased in the field of patrols. What is a key point here is that this should be preventive, so that you do not develop the situation you have in Sweden. I would also like to stress that this is, of course, a responsibility for the individual tourist, who must ensure himself with locking systems, alarms, etc., but it is also a public responsibility. It is reassuring to hear that you will cooperate with Sweden. A number of other things have been done, including: have had information campaigns that have turned out very positively. As this is a new crime in Norway, many people do not know it when they come to the country. Would you like to invest more in information in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e959	It is clear from my answer that I am thinking on the same lines as the representative: firstly, to be able to prevent by allowing individual citizens to guard themselves in the form of practical knowledge – the representative and I fully agree on that – and, of course, that the citizen should also be able to expect society to stand up. I have expressed that fact that society does, and that you are aware of this danger. So even though this happens more in Sweden, it is all the more important that there is a cooperation, as I said in my answer, between the Eastfold police district and the police in Sweden. It's very important. Although we can say that we should be concerned with criminal matters in our own country, we are in the field of cross-border crime, depending on such cross-border cooperation with our neighbouring country. We've added up to that. I also agree with the representative that we need to look at information measures. I've noticed his views, and I'll take them in appropriate contexts. It is also the case that the Norwegian police, just as they do in Sweden, warn against sleeping along the E6. Information is useful, for example:: do not select a rest as accommodation, do not have valuables visible, etc. We share the two main lines: that this is a responsibility for the citizens, and that citizens are supported by an active police force that understands that this can develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e968	I thank you for the additional reply. I think it's positive, and hope that these promises and points of view are followed up so that we don't get an explosion of road pirates in Eastfold and in Norway otherwise. It is also unfortunate for tourism. In the few cases we have had, there have been major negative calls internationally, and a picture of Norway and Sweden is being drawn as unsafe tourist countries. It is also very unfortunate for the tourist industry. I hope that the Council of State and the police districts will follow this up and give this area priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e973	I choose to take the representative in the best possible sense, but I'm neither an operational manager nor a police officer. But with that I know, for example. have access to the affected police districts, and I mentioned especially Eastfold, the police have their own ability to listen to the challenges of the police. In Eastfold, for example, the police officer has said that the whole county, which is his responsibility, has border challenges. Those border challenges are well described by the representative in his questions to me. I therefore believe that the local police understand this and see this, and they have documented in many contexts that they both understand the interaction with the population and can talk to them properly. For my part, I don't forget when we still had a Halden police district, how those in the district could tell that as soon as something happened, you could be sure that the population reacted immediately. There is a kind of proximity between the basic plan and the police in the border state. I think that is quite important in order to get to the prevention that the representative and I very much agree that we need to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e980	Question 6 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e987	‘The last year’s annual reports from the Oslo training seat show that while the number of students has risen, the number of teachers has fallen sharply. In 2003, the number of students grew by 1,100, while the number of teaching positions decreased by 154. In 2004, pupils grew by 1,600 and teachers decreased by 101. This trend is increasing in student groups. How does the Council of State feel that the objective of adapted training can be achieved when there are fewer and fewer teachers available to each student in the educational situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e994	The Ministry uses two indicators to look at the development of teacher density in schools, i.e. the average estimated group size and the number of pupils per school. teacher’s annual work. Developments in these indicators suggest that teacher density on a national basis is high and stable, but there are local differences. The development of resource use in recent years must also be seen in the context of changes in the contract work, which in isolation should lead to a reduction in the number of teacher years, but not a corresponding reduction in the number of teacher hours, because each year's work has several hours. However, from the previous school year to this year, the teacher density in primary school has been increased by the number of pupils per year. Teacher's annuals have been reduced from 12.3 to 12.1. Oslo Municipality spends a lot of money at school. The teacher's density is on average 12.3 students per. teacher’s annual work. In addition, we know that Oslo offers pupils in high school a larger total of hours that is above the minimum number of hours imposed by the state. In addition, the Municipality of Oslo carries out very large investments in school buildings. Oslo Municipality has nearly 150 primary schools. As is known, the Government has conducted routine surveys of schools in Norway based on data on resource use. The County of Oslo and Akershus are responsible for the supervision of the schools in Oslo. In the review of the GSI figures for primary school from 2004, the county found cause for concern about the group size of six schools. The figures for these schools have been examined in more detail and the review shows that more detailed supervision is needed in one or two of these schools. The county follows up these individual issues, but at the same time expresses no concern about the use of resources in primary school in Oslo. Of course, I too will follow closely the development of resource use, but I agree that it does not give cause for concern so far. Both GSI figures from the autumn of 2004 and COSTRA figures from March 2005 confirm that Norway remains among the world’s most resource-using countries in school. On top of this, it should reach, among other things. be invested in a high level of professional competence in the implementation of the Knowledge Lift. The school's task is to provide each student with training tailored to their needs and assumptions. The ability to achieve this depends on something far more than resource use, and this has been discussed in depth, among other things. in St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, Culture for learning, which led to the government’s school reform. The Knowledge Commitment facilitates a national effort to adapt training, which has been widely endorsed by the Storting. I also have great faith in increased flexibility and greater room for action for schools and municipalities, and I get many positive feedback that the rigid classification rules have changed. Schools are now also given the opportunity, in consultation with pupils and parents, to dispose of up to 25 pst. the number of hours spent in each subject in order to strengthen the adapted teaching for each individual student. The development of teachers' skills is a very important part of the focus on adapted training and must also focus on research and method development. Further work on the learning environment, awareness of values and bullying are also key elements in the effort to better adapt training. Two to three billion SEK will be allocated to the development of skills in the Knowledge promise, and 500 million will be allocated already in 2005. kr for this – in addition to the municipalities and counties themselves use. Better adapted training is a priority area for the development of skills, and it is the responsibility of the school owner that the PPT is also covered by this initiative. As I said, I will follow developments in the resource situation carefully and make sure that the supervisor captures breaches of the prerequisites for the educationally sound organisation of the students. But I'm concerned that with our high resource use, both in Oslo and in the rest of the country, we can't just be busy with resources when we point to the need for better adapted training. I have great expectations of the measures of the Knowledge Lift. An evaluation shall be carried out to follow the implementation and this evaluation will allow us to assess the impact of the measures and, if necessary, to adjust the course of action, if necessary. The national quality assessment system and the national tests will also be an important instrument in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1011	The numbers for Oslo are ready. There have been 2,700 more students in Oslo School in two years, and there have been 256 fewer teachers in Oslo School. It must necessarily mean that training has been less organised for each individual student. To me, this stands out as a logical conclusion. It happens in a right-hand city, but unfortunately it is that very many municipalities around Norway experience exactly the same thing. We have an evaluation, and we have research that shows that we have a school today that can't even out the social differences we have in society. We have a school that doesn't manage to provide adapted and organized training for each individual student. The Council of State has said in the past – and I very much agree – that the most important resource in school is the teacher. Then is my question to the Council of State: Is the Council of State concerned about the development of the Oslo school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1018	My opinion is that Oslo School is getting very good. I guess it has to be one of the best schools in the world, because Norway has one of the world's best education systems, and in Oslo school it's going to be amazingly positive. For the current year's resource use, the average teacher density is the number of pupils per year. teacher’s annual work, 12,1 in the country and 12,3 in Oslo. The average group size is 13.7 in the country and 14.5 in Oslo. The average number of dollars used per person. The student is probably NOK 64 000 in the country and over NOK 83 000 in Oslo. This is quite high due to a new management of rental costs, but also last year Oslo was above the national average. So the resource use in the country is about the highest in the world, and Oslo also has a very high resource use, partly higher than the country. In addition, consideration should also be given to School Package 2 if you want to look at the development of resource use in schools in recent years, because it meant that each teacher should teach a little more, and therefore you also need to look at teacher lessons. Yes, adapted training has been an ideal in Norwegian school since the 1930s. If it was just the resource use that was the explanation that we haven't got it, I think it sounds strange. We know from Norwegian and international research that there are other factors that are far more important, including: on the competence of both teacher and continuing education and all that we are about to do in the Knowledge promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1029	There are many teachers and students who are not familiar with the classroom the State Council Clemet describes, nor in the educational statistics she presents today, and the one she has previously provided. Statistics can be used in many ways, and they do not need to measure what is actually to be measured. I would like to claim that in relation to the kind of education statistics provided by the Council of State. First of all, we now have a differentiated structure. We have many small schools, single and few schools. In Oslo, for example, you have Very many large schools in central districts, and in many small municipalities there are small, old and few schools. Secondly, parts of the special education have been included in the Clemet number. In other words, some of the education that individual students receive and that a whole class does not receive has been included in the statistics. Third, if you look at the distribution of the group size, it's 57.3 pst. by students in groups with more than 17 students, and close to 20 pst. students are in groups with more than 20 students. Does the Clemet Council agree that there is a need to review the way statistics are viewed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1038	I just have to make it clear that there's nothing called the Clemets number. What we refer to in the ministry are official statistics in Norway, produced in cooperation between the Statistical Central Bureau, which maintains a high quality internationally, and the Ministry of Education, the Directorate of Education, the municipalities, etc. However, Norway has also placed great emphasis on a broad consensus on the statistical base and the data base with actors such as drug users. the trade unions, in particular the Federation of Education, which is a major trade union. It is quite obvious to me that all such statistical environments should work continuously to improve the statistical basis. But I'm referring to what we know. All of these statistics are fully open today, because we have a national quality assessment system where there's a lot of resource data about the schools, so everyone can go in and look at exactly the same statistics. I have never hidden the fact that there are local differences in Norway. We have many small schools and many large schools. Throughout it can be said that the smallest schools are more expensive than the middle schools, and that the largest schools are more expensive than the middle schools. [[The President clubs.]] It doesn't have much to say for the average on a national basis, but it may have a lot to say for the individual municipality. It also varies within the municipality of Oslo. But we have local democracy, so that's why it's up to the municipalities how they want to finance their schools. So whether it's a money or a student system or another system, it's up to the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1045	At this point the President will recall that each additional question and answer shall be up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1053	I'll do the best I can. I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «The newspaper Our Country 6 April points out that the majority of Storting's stated intention in, among other things. Deep. S. No 114 that all young people with disabilities living in nursing homes and old people’s institutions should not have moved out by 2005 if they so wish have been followed up. [[1997-98]] Many municipalities relocate young people with disabilities into institutions. How will the Council of State ensure that the stated objectives of the Storting are followed up and implemented as soon as the deadline has expired?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1064	The work of providing young people with a strong need for help living in old-age or infirmity, an alternative accommodation, is a priority task. No young disabled person should live against his will in an institution intended for older residents. It is the municipality that is responsible for providing practical or personal assistance to people who cannot care for themselves. Furthermore, it is for the municipality to assess the extent of the assistance that should be provided. At the end of 2002, the Ministry of Social Affairs carried out a survey showing that 125 young people with disabilities were living in old-age or sick homes. Of these, 63 wanted users or their relatives another offer. On the basis of the mapping, a report of concrete actions was presented in December 2003, in cooperation with user organisations. Among other things, Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre and Muritunet – the Centre for Meinstring and Rehabilitation have initiated and guided the relevant municipalities in concrete relocation processes at, among others. focusing on user rights and individual levels. The county councillors have followed up the municipalities concerned to help them draw up individual plans for the individual user. In addition, a contact group has been set up with representatives of user organisations, the Local Governments’ Central Association, the Directorate for Social and Health and the Department. The Group shall follow developments in this area and make proposals for new measures. In order to monitor developments, a rolling reporting scheme has been developed. Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre carried out a new survey in 2004. It showed that there are 132 disabled people living in old-age and sick homes. It is estimated that between 30 and 50 of these have moved into an old-age or sick home since 2002. All municipalities with young people living in old and sick homes will be closely followed up through the counties. This will provide an overview of whether users want a different housing offer, whether they have developed an individual plan, and whether there is a plan for moving to suitable owner-occupied housing, etc. With regard to the financing of out-of-town actions, I would like to mention the top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive users allocated to municipalities with large expenditures, regardless of the form of residence. This scheme was introduced from 2004 and is a system that is both predictable for municipalities and ensures the permanent operation of measures. In order to prevent municipalities from moving disabled young people into the elderly institution, it is necessary to focus on work on quality and attitudes towards this user group, both in the municipal service and in the specialist health service. In my view, investing in the quality development of municipal health and social services will help to provide these users with an individualised service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1081	I must be allowed to express disappointment at the response of the Council of State. Actually, it doesn't seem like he's taking the situation seriously enough. The response is strongly influenced by the need to look at developments, to follow developments, to refer to the top-level funding model presented. One question then is, how many have moved out as a result of the top funding model? The development is going in the opposite direction -- actually, there are several people moving in. The Council of State also suggests that the county councillors should monitor the development of each municipality and that they should assess whether users want a different housing offer or not. I hope that the Council of State in the follow-up can be a little more concrete and answer the following questions: Why is the decision of the Storting not implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1095	The representative's supplementary question holds a claim that, in my opinion, is incorrect. It is not true that no action has been taken. I have just listed all the actions we have undertaken, with all the contact groups that are organised, and the cooperation we have with the Directorate, with the Department, with the county officials, with the municipalities and with the user organisations. So it turns out that despite the intense work that has been done – half of the 125 that had been surveyed, have come out – a lot has yet come in. For some, it means a shorter stay. For some it has been of a more permanent nature. This means that, for various reasons, both for good and for bad, but probably most of the poor, municipalities have not implemented the actions decided in cooperation. In view of the facts, it is quite natural for me to contact the county council members again on this issue. That's what I'm going to do in a meeting I'm going to have with them at noon. 14 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1104	I was at least a little more satisfied with the answer that came now, but still the Council of State does not respond to why Storting's wishes and decisions have not been followed up when it comes to the relocation. One thing is that reference is made to a number of measures that have been taken, but still, in fact, there are more people moving in than being moved out. It's a big problem, and I hope the Minister of Health sees it. In the response of the Minister of Health and Welfare, reference was made to the Valnesfjord project. But it put the Social and Health Directorate down from New Year's, so it actually doesn't exist anymore. Responsibilities include: transferred to the five regional health establishments. So I hope at least that you will become more concrete in the follow-up this time, and that you strongly point out to the statesmen that these people should have moved out in the current year – unless at least it is strongly in conflict with the wishes and decisions of the Storting. I expect the Minister of Health to agree that it is the Council of State that is responsible for the Stortinget, not the statesmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1111	I fully agree with the latter. As far as I have been aware of the constitutional law, it is only government councils who are responsible for the Storting. That's not what's being discussed. Then Stortinget has also operated on the relocation and placed responsibility for the implementation of it to the municipalities, which are responsible for the care of the elderly. We're going to assist professionally. The technical assistance previously provided included: Valnesfjord, has now been transferred to the regional health establishments. The professional part is the exact same thing. What is quite clear is that there are some municipalities that have not done this for varying reasons, despite the close follow-up. But as I say, my room of action is a renewed contact with the statesmen to re-take a review and make sure that those who want to move out get it, but we have to remember that half of the 125 who were in the institution, did not have a wish for this, as it turned out from the basis of which Stortinget had to treat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1131	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1138	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Gothenburg Protocol sets requirements in relation to NOx. If we are to meet our obligations, it must be done, among other things, within the coastal fleet and the oil industry. The transition to gas operation and the rehabilitation of the existing engines are two ways to go. New technologies are available to reduce emissions of existing oil and diesel engines, among others. at a Molde and Trondheim based company. Does the Council of State have concrete plans to contribute to the fulfilment of these obligations and, in the case of when, and what action will be taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1147	The Government will put in place the necessary measures and instruments to ensure that Norway complies with the nitrogen oxide emission obligations, NOx,in the Gothenburg Protocol by 2010. The government has in St.meld. No 21 for 2004–2005, ‘Government’s environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state’, addressed the type of instrument it will use. This message was submitted to Stortinget on 18 March. For ships and fishing vessels, it will be necessary to develop new means of action which may result in emission reductions beyond those resulting from the IMO requirements for NOx emissions from new ships. The Government is proposing to establish its own emission requirements for ships engaged in Norwegian domestic voyages and for fishing vessels. Requirements will be imposed on both new and existing ships and vessels. The Maritime Directorate has already assessed a range of possible technical measures that can be implemented on diesel-engined ships. In addition, Norway has gained experience in the use of gas as a marine fuel. I am aware that there are several Norwegian suppliers of technology for the solutions evaluated. For power plants on the base and on the mainland industry, the use of best available techniques will be required in line with the requirements of the EU Integrated Pollution Control Directive. For some of these enterprises, it may be appropriate to set requirements that go beyond the current description of the best available technology. Following the analysis of measures, the measures taken in the offshore petroleum industry are substantially more costly than the measures taken on ships and fishing vessels. The government is now working on concreteising the design of the agency. The government will also ensure the most cost-effective achievement of targets and therefore facilitate flexible cross-sectoral solutions. This is the case when implementing requirements that go beyond what is provided for by the EU Directive and emissions regulations that are introduced into ships and fishing vessels. Verkemmidla must help to ensure that commitments are met by 2010, a commitment for the actors and a good cross-sectoral insight. The Ministry of the Environment has been in dialogue with the actors in the maritime industries and has received their views on the further development of the NOx project towards ships. We will listen carefully to what they have to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1171	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the content of the answer, but I ask a question about the schedule here. Now just before Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen went out of the hall – he should almost have been here and heard this, for he promised 10 million. kr via Directorate for Maritime Affairs in April last year. These funds have not yet been allocated. I wish that the government could have been a little more concrete in relation to the time schedule for a new NOx regime to be introduced. There are people out there in the business world waiting to get started. There may also be bureaucrats in the system who are not willing to release. Maybe the biggest bend we're politicians, who don't send clear enough signals. So I want to ask you directly, at what point will you be able to implement a real NOx regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1184	Now we have presented a big message which clearly states that we should implement the requirements of the Gothenburg Protocol. It's an agreement that's particularly important to Norway, because we suffer from that kind of pollution in particular, and then we have to be able to meet the requirements that we have, and that applies, among other things. NOx. We have seen that the way progress is today, we will not meet that obligation. That is why we have put a strategy for this in the message on the state of the state of the state of the state, where we address different actions. Ships and vessels will be covered by such measures. Now, of course, we have to get this confirmed in Stortinget, and then we have to classify the different ships according to what requirements are to be set for them. I found it difficult to comment on what is the Minister of Industry's responsibility, but we know that the problem here has been, among other things, that. EEA legislation and the challenges facing it. I hope you'll find a solution to this as quickly as possible, because we need the resources to get us good incentives, so we can start the development – for the reconstruction, it has to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1194	I thank you again for the answer, and see that the Council of State has intended to do something concrete. But in what way does the Council of State see that one side of the Ministry of the Environment can support those working in both the research community and industry in developing even more new technologies? We know that this is also a technology question. Of course, we also know that when it concerns NOx, it has something to do with building gas power plants, because that's where the really big emissions are. But it's very interesting to see environmental protection in practice, when, for example. coastal fleet machinery, when the high-speed machine lists become those operating in practice in the field of environmental protection. But perhaps we could expect the Minister for the Environment to take some action and bring some money, too, so that we could simply start developing new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1204	I agree entirely with the representative Jacobsen says in relation to gas power plants. Among other emissions that were given at Snow White, it was very clear and very hard, just to ensure minimum emissions relative to NOx. And that's very important, we're going to be able to fulfill this agreement that's here. This is here today, the representative points to his question in some environment. Yes, actually, in my own country, at Bømlo, there is technology to develop this. There's an exciting environment, we want to encourage this, and I want to say that the signal from these when we sent out the message about the state of the state of the state of the state was very positive, precisely because now one sees that an initiative is being taken in relation to this issue. And there is no doubt that we are going to comply with the requirements of the Gothenburg Protocol, then there will be a lot of work for this industry. They want to help improve the environment, and they want to give us good technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1216	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «Vern destroys our quality of life, says most people living in the municipality of Engerdal in Hedmark. The State proposes to protect large areas in addition to what is already protected. Does the Council of State believe that local interests and opportunities to use nature in work and leisure must give way to new protection interests, when the municipality has large areas of land already connected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1225	In the Grand Duchy, there is broad support for increasing forest protection and for the active use of public-owned forest land in this work. To follow up on a clear signal from Stortinget, I have, in close cooperation with the Minister of Agriculture and Food, started a systematic work on forest protection on state grounds. The work on protection on state land comprises the area of a number of municipalities, between other Engerdal. Extensive hearing processes are now being carried out in which all parties can make representations of their views and interests. Vernesaka has not yet been sent to the Department of Treatment, so I cannot comment on this matter in detail at present. The government's work on conservation under the laws of nature has wide support in Stortinget. Protective policies are an important part of an active and long-term environmental policy aimed at ensuring quality of life for society and individuals. The Government attaches great importance to the continuation of existing activities and uses within the old and newly created protection areas, as long as this does not conflict with the purpose of protection. This means that people, among other things, must be able to move in the area, fish and hunt, sank mushrooms and berries. Someone thinks that protection only involves restrictions and lost opportunities for business development. I want to focus on the potential of protection for local and regional economic development. I am therefore pleased that more and more municipalities have taken up the challenge of developing the economic potential of protection. Our protected areas and areas around them are not ‘nutritional fallow’ today. Both agriculture and tourism have long used these areas as a basis for economic activity. This government attaches great importance and seriousness to the fact that our protection areas will continue to be an important basis for the creation of value in our districts in the future. Through the ‘mountain text’ of the 2003 revised State Budget, the Government has provided guidance on how this work can be done and on what importance it must take to ensure that natural values are not reduced or destroyed. It is my clear belief that the protection and sustainable use of our natural resources, where the Government's protection policy is an essential element, will strengthen the nutrient base of our districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1242	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The municipality of Engerdal is a relatively small municipality of more than 2000 km2 and with approx. 1,500 inhabitants. Of these 1,500 people, it's about. 250 persons with rights of use in areas that are or are now protected. In this case, there are mostly state forests in the municipality of Engerdal. In total, this is going to be approx. 600 km2. Already, the protected areas in the municipality of Engerdal are larger than the municipality of Oslo, just to say a little about the size when you now propose to protect another approx. 130 km2. This means that in these areas it becomes difficult to operate, it is difficult to operate, it is prohibited in parts of the area to ride horses and to ride bicycles, with motorised traffic, to remove any roads and ditches, and to bring back the nature. That's when I have some difficulty getting to the council when he says that the protection provides nutritional opportunities. What about the business that's already gone today, for example. tourism and forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1258	Now I will not comment on the specific matter in Engerdal. There is a consultation process, which now has the local possibilities to make their recordings, and we will finally make a holistic assessment. That's why we have these democratic processes, so this is going to make it possible. What I want to point out in this matter, which I think is very positive, is that the state is also involved in protecting something for its reason. The representative Bredvold and I may disagree on the protection policy in general, but the fact that the state is also involved in protecting something of its area, I think I am very positive, and in that context I know that the Progress Party also gave its support to the proposal for the active use of public-owned land in forest protection. I have also met people from local populations who see opportunities through protection. I also believe it is important that we, from the Ministry of the Environment, support this work, which enables us to benefit from protection as a nutritional basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1265	I thank the Council once again for the answer. This is a lot about quality of life, and it's about business. Quality of life is about people being able to use nature the way nature is used before, and when the possibility of something as simple as getting rid of it disappears some of the quality of life for some. Then there are other things that disappear for others, because we have a different view of what quality of life is, and we have a different view of what a business is, of course. I've been to a meeting up in Engerdal and heard a lot of views, and they're pretty clear that a protection will reduce all of this. Of course, there's probably someone who's for a protection. But an alternative is to make the area a little bit smaller, which is perhaps the possibility of making suggestions. However, there are also questions about compensation, because something is lost. What is the compensation you can get in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1272	The quality of life is precisely what has been an important basis for the protection policy pursued by the Government and to which we have broad support in the Grand Duchy. The fact that we take care of our nature and secure it for the future is precisely to increase the quality of life for a lot of people. Then there are some questions that the representative takes up in a good way, which there's not taken any decision yet. The protection area in Engerdal is essentially in surplus public opinion, and that means that forest protection here is possible, while private individuals with maximum rights in the general government can still take out timber, as an example. There are different parts of the guidelines that I now want to look at in the future. This is a process on. Here the locals are going to make their recordings, and of course we'll listen to them in our health assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1277	Case No. 1, Question Time, has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-13.ana.ud818e1288	There is no record.
