ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-11.ana.ud226e592	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! The 150th big thing your Majesty has opened today is the first in a new parliamentary term. The grandma opens in an anniversary year where we have marked 1905 as a milestone in the Norwegian People’s Republic. But the year is not just a milestone for the government. Our monarchy is also a hundred years old in the fall. On behalf of the Stortinget I therefore allow myself to congratulate your Majesty and the entire royal family on this anniversary. As the census gives a good picture, there are many tasks to address in different sectors of society and in different areas of our country. But if the challenges are many, they are not insurmountable. Our generation of politicians have greater opportunities to do something about the challenges ahead of us than past generations of politicians had. If we have the ability to use the possibilities, we can move on to what is a goal for all of us: a secure society that provides the basis for growth and progress, and a life expansion that does not go to the detriment of others, but is based on the values of the community to take care of one another. In this we manage an inheritance from our predecessors in Stortinget. Millions of people around the world face a different and much harder reality than ours. The size goes into action at a time when environmental disasters, poverty and terrorism put their terrible mark on large parts of the world. It makes a strong impression on us all to see the images from the earthquake regions of Asia and the hurricane kings on the U.S. continent. We know that many in this country are waiting again for family and friends in Pakistan. I want to express that we feel with them and the many thousands that are hard hit by the earthquake. With 73 newly elected representatives, we get a significant renewal of the Stortinget. Together, the newly elected and the re-elected representatives shall contribute to the development of an efficient and decision-making working community. The election campaign and election results have also led to a clear majority in the United Kingdom for the first time since the beginning of the 1980s. It gives the government more opportunity to implement its policy, and voters can more easily place the responsibility for whether what was promised in the election campaign is really put to work. I am sure that the Storting will follow closely if the promises in relation to those who have the least, are fulfilled. Democracy means that the majority decides, but not without taking into account the minority. There has been a tradition in Norway to find broad solutions at the intersection of government and opposition, where possible. In this way, the interests and competences of the various party groups are brought to justice, and the results are best achieved for the country. Today's elected representatives meet a well-functioning parliamentary system. The term ‘all power in this Chamber’ describes the content of parliamentaryism, that government and magnification meet in the main hall in order to arrive at the decisions together. However, it is a fact that actors outside this hall — both internationally and nationally — have increased their power and influence. Ideally, therefore, it should be a goal for all of us to move power back to the elected body, to the magnificence hall, while at the same time making greater use of ourselves in international bodies in order to influence development. During the next four-year period, the Storting will decide on several constitutional proposals that make up significant changes in our constitutional practices. The consideration of these proposals will allow us to discuss important principles for our people's rule. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many and great tasks ahead of us, and in strong faith that the whole of the Great Britain looks beyond the borders of the country to all those who suffer distress, who are affected by violence, oppression and natural disasters, we gather in the old and good will: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-11.ana.ud226e628	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
