ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e67	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e70	On behalf of Per Erik Monsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose a reduction in the tax on petrol and car diesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e75	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e89	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group, 5 minutes for each independent representative and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e98	The matter we are dealing with is a proposal from the representatives of Rolf Reikvam, Lena Jensen, Karin Andersen and Sigbjørn Molvik to legislate that county councils should provide training according to the model «School at work». The Committee does not support the legislative adoption of a single model, but believes that the proposal focuses on important aspects of higher education. The majority, consisting of the Committee other than the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, discuss in the vote the problem of organisation in higher education. Almost 90 pst. students leaving secondary school start a course of education in secondary school. The demands of an increasingly advanced working life increase the need for formal competence. When 23.7 p.m. by students who have dropped out of secondary education in the 2003–04 school year, it is necessary to consider whether the organisation of training can be improved so that more students can reach a final qualification. We know that education is important for jobseekers, and that young people without education have a lot of trouble getting a job. The majority stress that the county councils, as the responsible authority for providing a training offer to all students, have a great deal of freedom in the choice of a model to prepare individual training plans for skills as an apprentice or a professional letter. The proportion of on-the-job training will vary according to individual training plans. By developing individual training plans, a different combination of training could be offered in whole or in part at a workplace. What is important, however, is to make a thorough assessment of each individual student in order to determine what is the best course of education that can lead to final competence. The provision and quality of the training to be provided at the workplace also depend on the fact that schools have companies to cooperate with who are both able and willing to undertake the task. The majority emphasise that Aetat is an important partner in providing unemployed young people who have not completed secondary education with an offer of training up to their final qualification. The majority stress that triangular cooperation between the municipality of residence, county municipality and Aetat is well established in most counties, but that this cooperation depends on Aetat having a financial framework to follow up this work satisfactorily. Then I will refer to the comment of the Council of State on the document, where she says she will assess different ways the county municipalities can be made familiar with ‘School at work’ and other training models. The majority agree with this and stress that it is important for the Ministry to take initiatives towards municipalities and business partners so that they can engage in the training model ‘School at work’ and similar training models, and that there may be an offer for students in need of an alternative training course, and for the unemployed who lack formal competence. I would therefore ask the Council of State to say a little more about how she thinks the Department can assist the counties so that the pedagogical diversity that characterises some county councils in this area can help others to organize educational courses leading to final competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e117	The completion of secondary education is important for subsequent courses of work and education. Those who end up go very much to leisure. It is an excessive drop-out, and it is the largest in vocational training. This is a serious problem that we must address, not only at local level, but also from the side of the Storting and from the state. We simply need to ensure a course of education and completion of secondary education that gives final competence. There are several bets that can be pointed out. In connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004 we discussed inter alia: better advice and how to ensure broad runs in higher education. Greater emphasis has been placed here on practical training. For my part I would say that although this field is of secondary education, a good part of youth could be included in the thinking of workplace practices. Today, there is a great deal of freedom for the county to organise such training courses, and there are many places. In my opinion, however, there is too little and too little systematic tailoring of training and arrangements for individual assessment. We realize, of course, that there are wide variations in the possibilities for such training courses, as there are different possibilities for the county with regard to local business and cooperation with the labour market seat. But there are many good examples, and at least we have to make sure that the good examples are spread. In the nomination, we make a mild recommendation to the Ministry to take initiatives towards county councils and social partners so that good training models can become an offer for students in need of vocational training courses, and I will also add: to unemployed people without formal qualifications. This is a consensus within the Committee. Is there anything that separates? Yes, at least I would suggest that it is a certain disclaimer of responsibility on the part of the government parties when you refer to the responsibility and freedom of the county council today, and that that freedom and responsibility should be respected. Now it's not unique in this area that you think this is just a local responsibility, which needs to be resolved locally. But we believe that also the State, and in fact the State and the Stortinget, should have the primary responsibility to ensure and develop models in cooperation with county and business to ensure that young people have a final qualification, and to prevent the great disqualification we see in high school today. After several recordings, there's also one thing that bothers me a little bit. This concerns the professional correction of the common subject in the vocational training programme. There are many ideas for us that one with the new curricula is making professional correction difficult and is helping to make professional correction less important. Now we know that there is a discussion about whether vocational correction is a method or whether there is a variety of educational material, but in my opinion, professional correction actually means that the various professional education programmes need to be organised, which must reflect in some guidelines from the central level and perhaps preferably in the curriculum. I hope this is not a result of the model that the Government wants to lay in relation to increased demands for study competence and academia of professional education programmes. It is important for us to stress that professional correction is something that many can benefit from, but it must actually take place a professional correction in relation to different educational programmes. It is essential simply for many to succeed in higher education and gain an end-of-life competence that they can use in higher education or working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e132	Document No The 8th proposal from the SV to legislate that county councils should provide training according to the model ‘School at work’ is, in my opinion, a strange proposal, and, as I understand it, has undergone a slightly special treatment in the committee as well. In fact, it may seem that the proposers are opposed to their own proposal, as it is not promoted in the position we now have to deal with, and as I understand it, nor will it be promoted during the course of the Stortinge process. What one then wants to achieve is reasonably uncertain. However, it appears from the current majority position that SV has gradually become reasonably satisfied with how the Government and the Council of State meet the challenges of differentiated and adapted training also in the field of vocational training. Since the introduction of Reform 94, the right has raised concerns about the increased pressure of theory in vocational training and the lack of flexibility that has been practised to prevent some students from being excluded from vocational training. There is no doubt that the overall amount of theory was increased in vocational training as a result of Reform 94. It was very gratifying that in 2003, the Government took the initiative of a legislative change, which allows students to take full vocational training in the enterprise. This is completely in line with the Right Long wish and work for. The right is also in favour of the ‘School at Work’ project, which is an offer made by entrepreneurs in cooperation with Aetat. This offer is aimed at the unemployed without completion of secondary education. There is evidence that there are several models to allow people with different assumptions to complete secondary education and to receive vocational training. The right is not afraid that different models are being tested and put into system, rather on the contrary. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State stresses that the county has a high degree of freedom of method in the alternative towards trade and labour law. This is fully in line with Røjre's intentions in the school reform The promise of knowledge, where freedom of method is an essential and fundamental element. Right, and to the extent that the rest of the Committee, cannot therefore support SV in the fact that one model is to be legalised, while others are not. On the other hand, the right is concerned that different models and different educational methods are tested and put into systems in the different counties and that their experience is spread to all school owners in the country. This ensures that schools learn from each other for the benefit of individuals and for the overall school environment. The right is therefore satisfied that the Council of State warns that it will make the project ‘School at work’ and other initiatives known to the county councils in an appropriate way. After all, the case rapporteur has already asked the Council of State to clarify how she intends this to take place. With such an dissemination of experience and knowledge, county municipalities will have the full opportunity to implement suitable solutions for the different counties, for the different school owners, for the individual school, for the individual community, but above all for the individual students. It is an overall committee that welcomes the fact that schools and school owners should have freedom of method in education. For the Right, it is an important principle that corruption and government set concrete learning goals and establish systems to make and follow up results and quality. There is a lot of competence in each school, and it's the individual teachers who know their students the best. Then it is also those who can choose the method of teaching and the organisational solution that leads to the best result for each student. Teachers have the opportunity to use the methods they think are best to provide students with a good learning outcomes. The time for central methodological directives must be over. It will seek the right to contribute to the next accumulation period as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e160	The proposal of the SV representatives Rolf Reikvam, Lena Jensen, Karin Andersen and Sigbjørn Molvik is intended to legislate that county councils should provide training according to the «School at work» model. That's not going to happen to the Progress Party. In fact, it turns out that it does not want the proposers either. On the other hand, the progress party will take the opportunity to point out that the county municipality is something we should get rid of as soon as possible. The Progress Party will also take advantage of the opportunity to recall the currently introduced law on early school leave, which has resulted in a joyful influx of new applications to compete in higher education with the county council to the now existing school monopoly. For the Progress Party, it is therefore twice as wrong to add new special tasks to the former monopolist. On the other hand, in the opinion of the Progress Party, it will be a good opportunity to propose that all independent schools receive 100 pst. funding, i.e. full equality in funding and equal treatment of pupils in basic education in Norway, as is the case in Sweden. For the Progress Party, such non-discrimination also includes a common training law for all students, as is the case in Sweden. I take up the two proposals of the Progress Party that are included in the vote, and I would like to sum up by saying that if we want diversity in the offer – and the more of the previous speakers have stressed that we are doing – then we must ensure that it is equal to funding for all offers and that there is full freedom of choice for all students. The Progress Party also wants to facilitate upgraded and enhanced vocational education and training. Such enhanced vocational training includes choices of both a shorter duration than three years and a more practical content in the workplace than the main device of the day. In the opinion of the Progress Party, free establishment of schools could thus facilitate a greater variation in the offer also for those students who demand practical vocational education and training at secondary school level. This means that our funding model provides a good opportunity to develop such offers, not least when a student applying for adapted vocational education can be fully funded on the road, even when the student is applying for such approved education, offered by others than the county. Anyone who offers can't possibly be important, but it's important that those who demand such education get a varied offer and are guaranteed full freedom of choice. The Progress Party will also express support for the Ministry's initiative to provide secondary school students with an alternative training course following the model 'School at work' for unemployed people who lack formal competence. We assume that the social partners are encouraged to participate in different ways. Experience in this way has been different. But without doing post-processing, I find it natural to mention that one of the major actors in this field was the Minerva school, which no longer operates. Finally, let me stress that the Progress Party also requires that new curricula for professional subjects which are under development be clearly vocationalised with clear practical content.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e179	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e182	It is rather disappointing to note that instead of addressing the important issues raised, the Progress Party uses this for an attack on the county council. They can do that. But this is too important a matter to be used for an attack on the county council. In addition, I also react a little to the Right, which makes this a methodological problem. This is not a methodological problem. That's not what we're talking about here. Here we are talking about a way to organise higher education, about alternative forms of organisation. That's what we're talking about, not a method for the different teachings. In the latest report from NIFU STEP, we have received new figures on high school abortion. NIFU STEP has followed approx. 10 000 students from the autumn of 2002 and looked at where these students were in the autumn of 2004, i.e. two and a half years after they started training. They say there's cause for concern. Too many people choose high school away. This applies in particular to mechanical, hotel and food subjects — almost every third student in the hotel and food sector chooses this away from two and a half years after they start training — the construction subjects and the woodworking subjects, which note this in particular with away selection. We also see that at the transition from VK I – after two years at school – and for students to sign a learning contract, there are a lot of people who fall out or choose this away. There is reason to believe that this is due to the difficulty of getting a learning contract. So we have a challenge in getting enough classrooms for students who are done with VK I. One might consider legislating the right to a place of study, just as one has legalized the right to a place of education. For those who opt out of school on the way – and thus not at the transition to VK I/VK II/VK I on the way – the answer is alternative training courses. The size has adopted the 2+2 model – we have said that the main model is 2+2. And we've also said it's going to be easier to pick an alternative race. I would also like to commend the Council of State for proposing this – after SV had submitted its Document No. Eight proposals and required the Council of State to come back with a proposal to amend the law. That's good. The size has also decided that there should be something we call an apprentice, a level under completed degrees. All this has been decided by Stortinget – Stortinget has said that this should be an offer, this should be run. Thus we can also say something about «School at work». We have the opportunity to give leadership if we want. Just as we adopt the main model, the alternative race, the apprentice, etc., we can also participate and give strong and clear leadership to the rest of the school. We're very good at evaluating here in the country. We evaluate upposts and downwalls — there are evaluation reports everywhere. But our willingness and ability to learn from the evaluation reports is very limited. There is an evaluation report on the project ‘School at work’. SINTEF has given it, and their leadership and recommendations are clear: they say that this is a model, a way of organising training that should not only include those who are unemployed – for whom it has been developed – this is something you should try to introduce into the rest of the school. I recognise that legislating this can be problematic – we have said that this is what we are dealing with. But giving strong and clear leadership to the county councils that this is a model, this is a way of organising the training, which is likely to enable more people to complete the education, it can help reduce the severance. And that's what our goal is. The purpose of having different alternative loops is precisely that as much as possible should be successful, that as much as possible should be achieved. When we have a problem with such a large selection, we should be clear and clear about giving strong leadership to the county councils that this is a way of organizing. This is a good offer. The experience is good. Sintef, who has evaluated it, recommends it and says that this should also apply to those who should have an ordinary training course – not just as now, those who are unemployed – in cooperation between Aetat, school and workplace. That's what we wanted, and I wish we could be even more clear about giving these leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e201	The rapporteur has given a good idea of what this matter is about. I would like to stress here that for the Christian People's Party, it is important that the secondary school can offer students both practical and theoretical training, and that the county councils have great freedom to choose which training models they want – including cooperation with businesses. Students have different needs, and the model ‘School at work’ is found to be suitable for some students, and the school as a workplace is suitable for others. It is important to underline the freedom of method which the county councils have. There is no disclaimer from the government parties in this, because with freedom there is responsibility. When we look at studies that a good part of the students end in the course of training, a question should be asked if something else should be done. We know that it is very important to be able to refer to training completed with formal competence in order to enter the labour market. It is important that as many as possible be able to complete secondary education with study or professional competence and that they have a diploma or a letter to refer to. NIFU has written a report on the 2004 project ‘Advantages and performances’ – also referred to by the representative Rikham – in which 9800 young people have been followed out of primary school and through secondary education. The project is being carried out in cooperation with the educational institutions in Eastfold, Akershus, Oslo, Hedmark, Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold, and I would like to quote the following from the summary comments in this report: "What appears to be very clear in our analyses is the very important background of the students; what conditions have they grown up under and what influences they have been subjected to in the family. We have found that growing up with both parents is present, that parents have higher education and that they are engaged in education are conditions that greatly increase the risk of students remaining within the education system and also of doing well." Further: ‘In addition to the great importance of students’ background, there are also some issues related to the pupils in the education system that have an impact on both performance and renunciation. Aspects of importance are largely related to the student’s own actions as a student... or the student’s self-assessment.’ The report also states: ‘We believe that a strategy aimed at both compensating for the lack of assumptions related to background conditions... and trying to put some action in place in relation to students where the warning lights flash. Not all warning lights are just as easy to see, but when the students have a lot of absence, there is a clear signal that something has to be done here to avoid the next step being out of line. Also other signs that students do not master the school professionally and socially should be able to catch up with teachers and schools in order to take action to make the students become.’ This is important to take seriously and pass on to the school system. The School in Construction Site project is therefore a useful tool here. Sintef researchers have evaluated the course and the evaluation shows that the pedagogical model is considered useful by the participants. The course provides for full education for groups who do not master traditional school-based education. I therefore see it as very positive that the Council of State will make this known further in the school system. I also refer to St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, where we dealt with something similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e230	Let me make some comments and answers to questions that have been raised, including: by the representative of the Skjellaaen. Firstly, I would like to say about the project «School in construction site» that I think that the model is very good, as far as I can judge, and it is also evaluated as good. I'll come back to that a little bit. In the case of progression, non-response, removal, etc. in secondary education, which has been affected here today, the situation is that few studies have been carried out in Norway. Now there is a study from NIFU STEP, to which reference has been made, and it is the first in its stroke. But in relation to being able to follow this in a better way in the future, I show, among other things. to our new national quality assessment system, where this with a high level of implementation in higher education is a central element, which means that in the future we will be able to obtain more systematised and ongoing information on this important field. In terms of the number of interruptions, withdrawals and non-responses — whatever you may call it, you have chosen to call it something other than non-response — there is reason to stress that a very high proportion of students in Norway, almost 90pst. if I remember correctly, still in high school after three years. Many of those who fall away have chosen to come back – we have to remember that there are a lot of things that do. In the case of those who are gone for good, so to speak, there are some who are well, for example. in a job situation, but some have actually gone out of work. I guess that's a sign that there's a lot of non-happiness. It's about doing to prevent that kind of apostasy, and to the extent that someone has fallen off, that we're doing something about it. It is quite right, as the representative of Rikvam was here, that there are differences between directions and that there is the greatest concern about some of the professions. So I agree with some of the descriptions given about this. We have put in place many measures and will take further action to address this. I mention the consultancy, which we want to improve. I mention the introduction of programming at youth level, which may make it easier to make safe choices. I mention a new structure in higher education, which means that we should also get in touch with the practical in a professional field already in the first year. I mention that the government has made proposals to extend the right to secondary education to the year when you are 24 years old. I mention that the government has launched its own drop-off project, first in some states, where the experience is to spread to other states. And I mention what more people have been into here, the possibility of choosing different models to meet the needs of different students and apprentices – two plus the two-model, enterprise first, the entire training of the company and other models. ‘School on construction site’ is a creative example. In relation to this, we have stressed that there is nothing in the Training Act or the Labour Market Services Act that prevents this type of action today. I think the main challenge is to get cooperation and interaction between different agencies, and cultures in different departments, and to make it work in the public sector. It may apply at both local and regional level and at State level. I can say that at state level I have initiated closer cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, just to assess how we can achieve a better interaction between labour market policy and central education policy, which can also have an impact at regional and local level. That investigation work is not complete. So how can we spread local examples? There are a number of methods for that. There is ongoing work under the direction of the Education Directorate in terms of dissemination of experience and dissemination of knowledge. The website Schoolporten.no, where you can go in and look at local examples, i.e. from reality, is actually one of the most popular places. We have already had a presentation of ‘School on Construction Site’ and an evaluation of ‘School on Construction Site’ in the Government’s Forum on Competence and Working Life, where the municipal sector is also represented. We have not only demonstration schools, but also demonstration companies. I also mention that the Education Directorate has been given the task of developing its own quality development strategy in the field of vocational education and training – to mention something. I therefore believe that there are a number of opportunities to disseminate experiences related to this good example. Just as regards the curricula, which were also affected by the representative Bjørnstad, I would like to point out that they are not final. There's a work going on, but what's my very definite impression is that the cooperation between the social partners in the field of professionalism is currently very good, and that's all possible reason to believe that we should be able to achieve something good. It is obvious that all types of objections or suspicions that are encountered in the course of the process are raised, as it is then possible for the Ministry to take this into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e257	The councils themselves referred to Ot.prp. No 57 for 2004-2005, which we are discussing in the Committee, including: there are proposals to extend the right to take up secondary education until the age of 24 years. Neither the state council nor I'm going to pre-shoot it. But if we extend that right, will it not also be important to have measures to ensure that there is a wide range of offers, to develop many offers for those who fall from them, so that within the extended court they get a good, diverse and varied offer that makes it tempting to come back? Is it not also important to have a good dialogue, not only with establishments, but with business organisations and large enterprises, so that you can also develop a practically targeted offer to get back those who have been jumping off the road in their higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e262	I fully agree with that. I believe that we have a good dialogue with the social partners, on the one hand institutionalised and on the other more informal. Of course, we have a good dialogue with the local government sector. I would like to mention that the Government actually has its own Forum on Competence and Work. It went under a slightly different name, I think, under former State Council Lilletun. Then it lay down a period under the previous government, and we created it again. There are all representatives of central education and training authorities and the social partners and others, just to discuss types of joint action. And this is a project that has been presented in detail to this forum, precisely in order for us to be able to disseminate experience in this way. But all good ideas and suggestions on how to develop the dialogue and disseminate experience and knowledge about providing good and individually adapted training to everyone in this country are received with thanks. I would say that it is almost a basic feature of our education policy that we want to disseminate good experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e267	The school shall be allowed to be chosen for periods. And it's true, as the Council of State says, that many people who opt out of school choose it back after a certain period. And it's going to be allowed to do -- dear friend, we're not going to have a school where everyone's going to be pushed to do just this in four years or in three years, here there's room for getting there in different ways, and spending different time getting there. But if it's because students don't get comfortable in school, they're just struggling with the way you organize the training, then we have a problem. And we don't want to. I think we can agree that we don't want students to choose school because the school doesn't work in a good way for them. It is therefore extremely important that we be able to develop different offers and new offers. And there is a ‘School in the construction site’ such an offer that I sincerely want the Council of State to be strong and clear in relation to the county councils, that this is something that you should try to get together with the local business community, so that it can be a real alternative for students who need this way to organise the training.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e272	In this debate it is just sunshine, because I agree with all of this as well. In fact, I agree that ‘School in construction site’ is a very good project. I take it as an example of the cooperation we now have at the central level to improve cooperation between education and labour market and social authorities. For many years, Norway has been struggling with cooperation between labour market authorities and social authorities. Now it's one department. But I think that often the problem is that when you want people from social and into work, competence can be the answer. It is therefore important to also cooperate with the competent authorities. I also fully agree that the disqualification that is not good – to use such an expression – because you might prefer to go to school or be in training, we should try to prevent it. The full evaluation of secondary education, the large differentiation project in secondary education, says that there is too little differentiation, too little variation, in training, and that there is one of the reasons why the students are bored, less motivated and perhaps eventually also ending. But it's important to bear in mind that part of the apostasy we see in the first and the second year, etc., is not necessarily an apostasy to time indefinite. I think it's important to bring it, so this picture won't be drawn darker than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e281	I don't think it's just sunshine when actually the whole 23.7 pst. discontinuance of secondary education in the 2003-2004 school year. Then you don't talk about sunshine. I think it's a very high number, and I think it's worrying. And it might have several reasons. However, I would like to ask the Council of State if she knows how much individual training plans are being used for students, and how much individual training plans are helping to contribute to implementation up to a final qualification, either as an apprentice or by letter. My impression is, in fact, that too little individual considerations are taken into account and too poorly organised, and that this is perhaps the biggest challenge associated with this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e288	I am pleased that the representative of the Trustee is so happy that there is now data and knowledge about Norwegian school available and open to all, which, of course, provides a better basis for pursuing a better policy. And now we're starting to get a lot of knowledge about the progress in higher education as well. My point is that if you look at the kind of numbers that are now being referred to, it doesn't necessarily take into account the proportion of these students coming back to the training. And there are certain developments that indicate that this about taking breaks in different ways has also become more common. At least throughout our lifelong learning policy, we have arranged for it to be possible to come back. But I also admit openly that one of the reasons why we haven't extended our right to advanced education forever, and so set a limit of even 24 years, is that we also see certain advantages in that there should be a certain pressure for young people to continue their education. And there is a lot of evidence today that having education also at a level above primary school is a very important condition for doing well in life. In terms of individual training plans and their scope, I do not have an overview of it, but I will be happy to investigate it – if it is possible to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e297	The next replicator is Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e300	I actually asked for the word for a three-minute post, but I can use the visit to the Council of State in an extra line. Contact with business is good. I've seen that, too. But what I tried to get was that we need to have a good supply development. And since I was encouraged to make good ideas and good recordings, it's actually in the Progress Party's proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox In fact, when we receive equal treatment for students with regard to funding, it is possible for interested students to request many offers, including those outside the county council and beyond the county boundaries. So it's a good idea from the Progress Party to make sure that there's a good product development, a good education offer for those who want to get back and get the end of their initial education, that those who are unemployed and want to gain more competence can do it in a practical way, and that there can be a broad offer operated by others than public authorities, but funded by the community, through equal funding for all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e307	The president's sorry he misunderstood. It's completely possible to draw yourself into a three-minute post as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e310	That's what it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e318	With regard to contact with the labour market, I will also refer to the strategy plan developed by the Government in the field of entrepreneurship in school. I think it is gratifying that there is so much excitement about cooperation and contact with the business community, as sometimes in other debates you get the impression that it is about keeping the arm's length away from everything that has to do with business. With regard to the funding of primary schools, we are aware that the Progress Party has the position that there should be zero probabilities and 100 pst. funding, while the Government has committed itself to 85 pst. of the operating costs, a gradual introduction of a certain capital grant and limited excesses. I believe that there is a question that can be discussed. There's different views of it, I don't see the very big differences in principle of having a tiny proportion and not having any, but there's someone who's concerned about that difference. The big theme in this room should be that there's someone here who thinks that there should be cloudy peculiarities, because the cuts to the colleges are going to be dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e325	Now I felt that I also had to use the opportunity in the line change, in order not to seem uninterested. There is a great deal of agreement in the setting in relation to the matter. But I just want to take the opportunity to re-examine what I was worried about, and about which we have got a lot of input, not only from the social partners, but also from school students who are out in professional schools – the one with the professional correction of the education programmes. I believe that what we are discussing, ‘School at work’, which has been adapted individually, tailored to individual levels, is a small part of the overall scope. I feel that with the professional correction of professional courses of study, it is the very basis for reaching most. Many people are concerned that there is no need to tighten up now, so that one with too tight teacher plans actually gives a signal that one should not have professional correction adapted to the different educational programmes, but a much more streamlined template for all — including professional and public subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e334	I have taken note of this point of view, and I am taking it into account in the further work on the implementation of the Knowledge Lift. I remind you that we have called for contact with the subject itself for the first year of higher education, if you choose a professional course. Someone who wants to be a hairdresser will be allowed to cut already the first year. I think that can be motivating for many, or you can find out in time that that's not what you want to do. Otherwise, I think that the problem that is raised here on a general basis would be greater if you went along with what I see the National Assembly of the Workers' Party has now agreed, namely that everyone should be prepared for study after they have completed secondary education, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e343	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e348	It was just a brief remark to the representative from SV, who gave me a visit and said something like this was too important to attack the county council. Now it is the case that SV itself brings the county municipality into this case. This is SV's Document No. Eight proposals, and it's SV, which is basically so outstandingly sure that the county council will get legalized as a task, that they'll notify it and try to get it through a Document No. Eight proposals. Then faith falls a little along the way, and there's little faith back in the end, because the proposal is specifically not repeated. We agree with much of the substance. It is important to ensure that pupils complete their education, and it is important that those who have come out of work and lack competence try to obtain it afterwards, and that those who are unemployed and incapacitated also have the opportunity to obtain it. But we're quite ghastly in disagreement with the Swedish authorities about the instruments, and we disagree with the fact that the county council is going to have new special tasks in addition to the monopoly situation and position they actually have in the field of higher education. It's an important thing to get diversity in the offer. This is what we do best, in the opinion of the Progress Party, by letting many others go to offer higher education, by putting many others in competition with the County Council, as the scheme is today. Then it will be a diverse offer. The prerequisite for many to benefit from a wide range of offers is that those applying for offers other than those offered by the county also receive a financial backing equivalent to that obtained by choosing the publicly managed offer. That is where the agreement between the Advance Party and SV ends. So we're going to let go of diversity, we're going to ensure freedom of choice for all types of students who want to go to higher education. So that's how SV will choose for the many, preferably for everyone, and that's the basic disagreement with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e361	It surprises me what is really the purpose of such an article in a debate on how to organise higher education. The very thing, most of the secondary education today, is in the county municipality. They're the ones who drive it, and they're still going to drive it. This was a proposal to try to stimulate new organisational methods within our education system. We have experience, we've got an evaluation, we've got all this on the table, and then we promoted a proposal out of it. We took up an evaluation report and said that we have to learn from this, we have to use it, and we really want all county councils to use it. And to the extent that there is private secondary education, they also have to use it – dear friend, that’s not the point. But this is about adding proper training. I have to say that I think it is quite revealing that the Progress Party is making this a debate on private schools versus public schools. We're going to have a good education system where we can get the most out of it. That is what we have put forward, and I sincerely hope that the Progress Party understands that. This is quite revealing to the Progress Party. They may not have any education policy at all, except to ensure that there are some private actors in this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e370	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e386	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group, 5 minutes for each independent representative and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e395	The document promotes proposals to remove today's CRL in school and replace it with two subjects: a confiscational Christian subject with a right of freedom and a neutral religious and life philosophy, with a high emphasis on Christian education, and where students do not have the right to exemption. The discussion of what was finally the CRL subject has a long history. Already in 1969 the Stortinget decided that the subject of Christian knowledge at the time was not to be part of the baptismal training of the Church. When the CRL subject was evaluated in Innst. S. No 240 for 2000-2001, the Committee unanimously stated: ‘Christianity knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation shall contribute to providing students with a common knowledge, culture and value base. [[CRL]] In an increasingly multicultural population, school training must aim at promoting understanding, respect and ability to dialogue between people with different perceptions of faith and outlook on life. At the same time, the subject shall provide students with a better understanding of their own religious or life-seeing tradition and identity.» The Committee further stated: ‘The Committee points out that the KRL is an ordinary school subject, anchored in the overall objectives and guidelines of the ten-year school curriculum. The trade shall provide knowledge of religions and outlook on life, not training in a particular faith.» The Committee stressed in the evaluation the importance of the openness of the CRL subject, of contributing to the understanding, respect and dialogue across the limits of faith and life, and of promoting understanding and tolerance on religious and moral issues. Basic knowledge of each other is a prerequisite for respectful dialogue and social inclusion. The majority of the Committee now refers to the work being done on new curricula for the CRL subject, a work based on the political consensus on a common CRL subject. At the same time as this process, legislative proposals related to the subject are now being consulted. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of representatives Evje and Simonsen, therefore wishes to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e416	The party of progress is in this rejection. I also refer to Innst. S. No 200 for 2002–2003 to St.meld. No 7 for 2002-2003, on the reform of baptismal training in the Norwegian Church, where the following proposal was made by the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case with proposals for strengthening and further developing the CRL subject in primary and teacher training for this subject.’ The Progress Party continues to believe that strengthening and further development of the CRL subject as a common value subject in school, and thus a common Norwegian value platform, is important. We still have the impression that it's important for all primary school students, and that therefore it has to be arranged so that it becomes a teaching profession. The Progress Party stresses that such a common Norwegian value platform should clearly present Christian cultural heritage and Christian ethics as fundamental values in Norwegian society. I would also like to quote more from the comments on the proposal relating to the matter of faith training. This concerns a comment by the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party. It also included the representative Evje at the time, and the comment also received the agreement of the representative Simonsen. The note states: «These members will at the same time stress that the school will continue to be based on the Christian purpose paragraph of the Training Act. Furthermore, these members would stress that strengthening and further developing the CRL profession in school should be carried out in parallel with a state initiative on baptismal training through the State Church. Such a strengthening of the CRL profession can provide all students with better training in values and morals, including what these members will call training in folklore. This is important for individual students, for the common learning environment of pupils and for the whole nation. In the view of these members, teacher training must be strengthened in the CRL field.» This is what the Progress Party still believes, but I note that the representative Evje and the representative Simonsen have changed their mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e435	The introduction to the curriculum for the KRL subject reads: ‘Religions and visions of life reflect people’s deepest questions and have at all times shaped individuals, communities and communities. Knowledge of religions and secular views of life, philosophy and ethics is essential to know the cultural traditions of their own society, to interpret life and to understand cultures and societies around the world.» Fact-based Christian, religious and life-wise knowledge as we have today is a meeting place for students with different backgrounds. The profession shall contribute to the common knowledge base and reference frameworks, promote new insights and provide recognition from its own background. By going back to a division of the subject, as the representative Simonsen suggests, we will lose this meeting place. The Christian People's Party does not see that this is the way to go. We got the CRL in 1997, and the goal of the subject was to embrace all students, but with the right to exemption from, among others. activities experienced as the exercise of other faiths. The Landes Raad Hernes stressed in its explanatory memorandum that: «a common cultural identity based primarily on our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage in a society of increasing pluralism». That there should be the most substance about Christianity was reasonable from its historical and current place in Norwegian society. But the subject should not be training in a particular faith; it should be an ordinary schooling. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, the reform of faith has been important. It is precisely intended to provide children and young people with the opportunity to train in their own faith, and therefore meets the need of Jan Simonsen for Christian education. The number of applications from the communities we have seen in these days shows the great need for this. Not since 1969 has the Christian profession in school been the baptismal education of the Church. That the subject is a non-preacher is nothing new and is therefore not a contrast to training on faith. A religion subject will be able to produce differences between people, but if you want to have concepts like tolerance and respect, which are to be taught in school, you also have to practice living by it. Tolerance is not to give up on your own identity, but to allow others to have a different opinion. Training may not take place in a value-neutral void. The purpose of school training applies to all subjects, not just the CRL subject. That opinions about the subject are broken is natural. It is therefore important that the subject is open and contributes to respect and dialogue, while stressing the importance of Christianity in Norwegian culture and history. It is natural that this is shown in the distribution of central learning material in the subject, as it should also continue to do. When the UN Human Rights Committee gave its opinion on the CRL subject, they were particularly concerned with the exercise of the right of exemption. It is important that parental rights and minority protection are respected in accordance with Norway’s international obligations, by ensuring that the exemption rules are easy to deal with. One prerequisite is that school/home cooperation works well, and that information is clear as to what the subject involves and how the training is planned. This must not lead to theoreticalisation of the subject, but to retain engaging pedagogical practices. This is why good teaching skills are important, and school leaders have a good understanding of the subject, so that dialogue with their homes is ensured. I am pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that continuing training in the CRL will be prioritised, as a new curriculum in the subject will be implemented as early as autumn 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e470	The biggest problem in today's modern Norway is not money, but care and care. A large number of Norwegians have mental problems, anxiety or nervous problems. Many are lonely. Older people are housed in public homes and rarely or never visited, while others die at home, surrounded by food and garbage. Violence and sexual crimes have increased dramatically in the last 10 to 20 years. In many presumptuous environments, not least in politics, it is common to use pointed elbows, slanders, rumors, gossip and lies to achieve a career at the expense of others. There's a lot of evil in our society. Perhaps that's because Christian values are on the way back, and the ten commandments are no longer taken seriously – whether it's the eighth, which requires us not to harm another man's name or honor with lies and sloppyness, the ninth, which requires us not to gamble after the inheritance or the property of our next, or to try to take something from him with tricks, the tenth and the sixth, which says that we should be loyal to our spouses and not try to take the spouse from anyone else, the seventh that says we shouldn't steal, or that we should not steal any of the other commandments. The overwhelming moral message of Christianity is that we should love our neighbor as ourselves, that we should do to others what we want them to do to us. Today, most people think of themselves, unless there is some natural disaster that gives us the opportunity to ease a little bit of an otherwise bad conscience. "Give freely, and not under compulsion, for such gifts are taken from God," wrote Paul. Not many people are following it today. Most people spend their money on themselves. Again: Perhaps it is because Christianity is on its way back – pushed aside from sexpress and materialism through newspapers and weekly magazines – and increased space in the school of Islam and other alternative religions. Norway has more than a thousand years of tradition, history and culture as a Christian country. At a time when our entire Western civilization is under pressure from foreign religions and cultures, it is more important than ever to use Christianity as a stronghold to defend our Norwegian culture, our history and our cultural traditions. If we want less crime and less evil in our society, we need more Christianity, not less. What we learn as a child is what gets stuck in the body and soul for the rest of your life. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that neither the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party nor any other party supports my proposal to introduce confiscation-bound Christian education from the first class in primary school, with exemption. In other words, it is only an offer to parents who want it, but it is probably most. Children do well to learn that Jesus was the Son of God. They have good things to do by learning the Father's Word and the creed. They're good at dealing with something solid. That is probably what most parents think, but obviously not most politicians. In addition to proposing a confederation-bound Christian subject, I also suggest that for a higher class stage, it be an objective and mandatory subject of religion. Our immigrant children can learn about their own religion, but also about the religion that is tones in the country in which they live. Norwegian children can also learn about other religions. It should in every way take care of and wish for a meeting place between different religions, as the representative Scarbøvik was concerned about. I note, however, that all parties in Norway, other than the Democrats, want to maintain a system in which Islam is almost equated with Christianity, and they are pleased that the influence of Christianity in Norwegian school is minimized. It wasn't like that 20-30 years ago. When I was young and went to high school, I had a confessional Christian science and later a religious subject, both very interesting. I haven't been hurt by that. Because it was different before, we also have a completely different crime trend today than before, not only because of it, but also because of it. Therefore. Finally, I refer to the proposal put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e491	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e513	It's not for fun or to get the media interested in us that this interpellation has risen. We have raised this interpellation because the matter is extremely serious. When the Council of State in November says that systematic and long-term efforts had led to an effective cutting of the queue, he must also expect criticism when three months later it turns out that the queue has grown again. When the interpellation was inserted, there were 2,333 people in the queue. Sundry cows are extremely harmful for several reasons. First, it is that a lot of the purpose of the sentence falls away when it goes a long time before the sentence is imposed, and some also continue to commit crime while they are waiting to get in to acquittal. Secondly, trust in the judiciary is undermined, not least for those who are victims of crime. Thirdly, it's hard to plan for the future to say for the one who's been convicted, and therefore also more difficult to get straight again, because the chance is reduced dramatically when you don't know when to go to the settlement, and when you're done. For example, which employer would like to see employ such a person? So it's most in the interests of society that we don't have cows for restitution, and there's also some reason why there's been so much pressure on that case over all the years we've had this justice committee. That being said, I would say that we on SV's side do not want clean reconciliation machines. Therefore, it is not immaterial what means are used to liquidate the queues. Therefore, we are concerned that, to a large extent, there are adhoc solutions, temporary arrangements and crisis measures being implemented, while the long-term, holistic work is not at the forefront. SV has requested plans from the department on several occasions. We believe that it is necessary to take an active stand on whether it is reasonable that as many of them as today are in closed prisons belong there, or whether we should spend the money differently, more efficiently, more humanely and sensibly. We have about 3,000 closed and 900 open locations in Norway. Why can't we build more open spaces, which are cheaper? What is the point of letting people who were not judged to be more dangerous than being referred to a reconciliation queue, zone in closed prisons? First-time zoners who have gone out in the open come to Ringerijk Prison, perhaps the toughest prison we have. When I visited them last year, they told me about a young boy who had never soned before, and who had actually been out for months and waited, who was then put into the Ring Kingdom, along with some of the toughest criminals, in a prison where you can't see over the ring wall. Obviously, it's not going to go well. Obviously, the chance that he will either end up in psychiatry afterwards or back in the prison system is very great. The Fafo report, the terrible report that many here are tired of hearing about, has given us a clear speech. We're talking about a segment of the population that needs a lot of help and total effort to get on the right track, not adhoc solutions. The debate on restitution cows must also be about how to prevent the reproduction of prisoners through prevention, rehabilitation and aftercare. It's like maybe as many as 70 pst. Of those in prison, come back again. If we don't take the discussion about how to prevent them from coming back again, we'll never get any further than just the adhoc solutions. So it's like the prisoners have the opposite educational pattern of the population, as shown in the Fafo report. But what do we do with that? School offers are laid down. At least 26 million are missing. DK for prison education, and this has been done for two years. The Education Committee had just two debates in this Chamber, and the State Council Dørum and State Council Clement were sitting almost side by side. I wonder how much they talk about the exact budgetary situation of prisons! There is also a lack of money for libraries, for the purchase of books. So here we're talking about a group of people who often haven't learned to read and write. Obviously, they can't, like us, survive in a modern society if they can't read and write. State Council Clement, who should have also been sitting here now, has always been concerned with the very fact that there are too poor reading and writing skills among the students. Yes, if she really wanted to get hold of it, she should have taken a trip to prison, talked to those sitting there, heard what kind of school experience they've had, and what advice they have to give, so that these defeat stories don't repeat themselves. Norwegian prisoners borrow about 17 times more books than the rest of the population. And what is that answer that we can give them? Well, that's cutting library supplies, because that's what really happens when you don't give the money to. It's so pointless that I almost don't have words. So someone says, for example. in the Progress Party, that SV only cares about the prisoners, not about the victims. It's a blank lie. Last two days ago, I had a long talk with a raped girl, a young girl who's had her life ruined. She contacted me, because she thought that at least she would try to get some advice on how to deal with these matters in the future, so that her life had not been put in ruins completely in vain. And what was she concerned about? First of all, she was concerned about how she was met as a rape, of course; but then she was also concerned about what happens when he who raped her, comes out of prison again. Have we done anything in the meantime that prevents other girls from getting their lives down to the ground in the same way that she did? The proponent's answer to that is, bring them in. They're making a new move, and we're bringing them in even a little bit longer. We had that discussion yesterday. The representative then asked Ellingen whether it was reasonable that, for example: a thief would be in six years if he had been taken for the third time, or if there might be a signal to us that we had to think differently and use the methods of punishment different from what we do today, and then Ellingen answers: Yes, we want them not to do it for the third time. So, you just explain this with individual choices, completely independent of choices and what society actually does. I wanted to say that it's making future victims responsible that we might have failed, because then they say, "Yes, there are new victims, but it's not our responsibility, the thief should have learned from the methods we tried to implement." From our point of view, we try to think more differentiatedly, also to analyse and be maritime critical of the methods we use, to see how we can prevent new victims next time. Then, of course, we have to have an analysis that goes both into the choices of individuals and places people in charge of the choices they make, but we also have to look at what choices we offer, how we organize and how we punish in a wise and sensible way, and also provide a rehabilitation scheme that prevents others from getting their lives ruined in the next round. So we're talking about who we want as a neighbor. SV will have a complete thinking. There is no plan for expansion or renovation now from the Department of Justice as we can at least see it. Instead, it is an extensive patching in the form of forward release, temporary release, duplication and general savings measures, which has made the compensation system more a storage system than a arena where a change can be made for the better. We have previously requested, among others. a massive bet on so-called §12 soning, where people can zone outside prison. Some of the most pointless thing about today's system is that we so much jail people with drug addiction. At least 60 pst. of those in prison have drug problems, major and extensive drug problems. Many of them are largely for storage, and many of them seem to be completely eel-ridden, because it becomes a breathing hole in an otherwise quite tragic life. But we can't say we're satisfied with it, that they're going out in an eternal round dance from one prison to another? We want to bring about lasting change, and in the debate on pay queues, it is the debate on lasting change that has to be central, and then we have to offer people treatment as well. With that, I'm going to leave the pulpit to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e532	One gets to have me excused, I expect it's the Stortinget and the president who's leaving me the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e537	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e540	Thank you. The government's goal is to get rid of the payroll, and the concrete plan for the future is to continue the systematic work we have done, with four points: 1. provide quick settlements in the short term2. the planning and evaluation of major prison deployments that will provide a long-term perspective3. continue with the idea of ‘restorative justice’, which is in the increased use of community sanctions and the use of conflict advice4. continue to develop administrative cooperation between the judicial, labour and social authorities, health and education authorities in order to make it possible for those who have entered prison not to come back again; That being said, I would say that it is not possible to predict either the number of judges or the length of the verdict. It is therefore not possible to guarantee when the queue will be gone. What is possible is to continue the systematic work that has been done, and I will describe it. The summer of 2003 was the highest since the beginning of the 1990s, from then until the fall of 2004 the nesting queue fell. Since then there has been a gradual increase again to today's level, which is now at 2,517 places per. 31 March. This is still below the peak of 2813 judges per year. 30 June 2003. As I explained in the Stortinget on 2 March this year, following questions from the representative of Storberget, in the fourth quarter of 2004, there was a relatively high level of access to criminal services compared to the third quarter of 2004. This may have been due to the fact that the queue has increased again. It also appears to have been a trend towards longer and stricter penalties. It is a misguided development that serious crime, such as gross drug crime, killing and rape, is penalised more severely. It was last expressed in the Stortingen debate yesterday. Crime statistics from the Statistical Central Agency show that the average level of penalties has increased in 2003 compared to previous years. In 2003, the average fines for all unconditional judges were about 170 days, while in the period 2000–2002 it was around 140 days. This is also reflected in criminal law statistics, which show that during the period 2002–2004, the number of prison days produced each year has increased by about a quarter. 9 pst., while the number of insertions has decreased by approx. 5 pst. The total number of completed prison days has increased every year since 2001 at an average rate of about 10 %. 4 pst. per 1 % years. There has been an increase in the rate of refusal of probation at two thirds of a time, which is no longer granted automatically. This is a wild and desirable development. In addition, there have been some unforeseen temporary reductions in prison sites such as the fire that closed the Inner Eastfold prison, the Drukstad department, in January of this year, and the closure of the Molde prison in 2004 for health reasons. So to the representative's perception of how it's made available to prison sites. To that I would say that in the period from 2002 to now there are a total of 292 new prisons. Some of these sites have been put into use relatively recently and will have full effect in 2005. Last year, prisons received an amount of about 97 pst. In 2004, duplicates corresponding to 39 prison sites were completed. This is a modest but important contribution to the fight against the queue. Last year the system of forward release saved approx. 23 500 days in prison, which is equivalent to 63 full-time prisons. The measure was extended slightly from 2005. It is expected that the use of forward release will give a total effect equivalent to about 108 places in 2005. The effect of new places, duplication and forward release is equivalent to a prison of more than 1.5 times the capacity of the planned Halden prison. The new sites alone represent more than the capacity of the planned Halden prison. During the year, a further 14 places will be opened in Drammen Prison and 15 places in Inner Eastfold Prison, Department Eidsberg. Most of the places at Inner Eastfold Prison, Department of Trøkstad, have been put into service again after the fire. The remaining sites, 14, are expected to be opened during the autumn. The Ministry is further working on the planning of a new prison in Halden and a new prison in Inner Salten/Sørfold. Other potential capacity extensions, including temporary measures and extensions of existing prisons, are continuously being considered. Of course, it also includes our open institutions, because there is an important effort here in prison, and it is also important in a comprehensive reconciliation strategy. The government will return to the Storting in an appropriate way with further action. I share the zeal of the representative Thorkildsen after giving drug users behind the walls proper treatment for their drug addiction. Noise and crime are often closely linked. In this respect, as Minister of Justice, I have taken the initiative to obtain in Norway a copy of the Irish Drug Court scheme, or the drug programme, which I have chosen to call it. As the representative of Thorkildsen points out, the number of transfers to § 12 zoning in a treatment institution has decreased. But this does not mean that detainees have received a worse offer. Until 1 August 2003, a total of 54 places for example were used for the housing of criminal services. Section 12-sonance. In 2002, the number was 94. of these places used for this purpose. From August 2003, the cabins were converted into transitional dwellings, so that this possibility of §12-soning fell. Prisoners who were transferred under Section 12 to the cabins mainly needed social training. Some of the people who were granted § 12 soning at the furniture house had less drug problems, but any treatment arrangements took place outside the furniture houses. Those transferred to transitional dwellings today have similar needs as those previously transferred to the cabs. Some of the prisoners in need of drug treatment were and are still transferred to appropriate institutions under Section 12. In 2002, which is the last full year using the furniture houses for §12-soning, it was implemented approximately. 35 000 days with a total of § 12-soning. Of these, it was approx. 16 000 days at the hospital of the criminal office, i.e. approx. 19 500 paydays were spent in treatment institutions outside the school. In 2004, the number of days of §12 soning was 28 500. This means a real increase of 46 pst. for treatment under Section 12 in institutions outside the criminal justice system. With regard to the number of persons transferred to Section 12 zoning, part of these are not completing the treatment and being reinstated in prison. For this reason, I believe that the number of days gives a better insight into the scope of Section 12 zone. The number of transfers to Section 12 in 2002 was 252, of which approximately 100 were for the housing of criminal services, i.e. 152 went to external treatment institutions. In 2004, there were 204 transfers under Section 12. In 2001, 150 were transferred under Section 12 to non-criminal institutions. There has therefore been a real increase in the number of transfers and the number of days spent by treatment institutions from 2002 to 2004. The conversion of the cabins to transitional dwellings has not weakened the overall offer of prisoners. Most of those transferred to transitional dwellings today are not unlike those that were previously transferred to furniture houses, i.e. they need control, follow-up and social training. It is also true that during the period mentioned here, there has been a systematic commitment to the use of community sanctions as a proper response. The use of social penalties was established yesterday by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy's treatment of the general part of the penal code, and also by an extended use of social sanctions linked to more serious drug crime when it was part of a rehabilitation scheme. So social punishment must be seen as part of an overall approach to looking at those who are related to criminal law and to acquittal. Similarly, there is a need to look at the increase in conflict councils, which means to intervene at an early stage in order to ensure that young people do not end up in crime. This government has systematic, through, among other things, a number of pilot projects and through active action plans, based on the idea that it is easier to turn young people in time if they are on their way to a criminal career than to do so later. The sum of these measures in the early stages of youth, the use of conflict councils, the use of community sanctions, the use of prison systems, cooperation with drug services and also the idea of a judicially-led drug programme, and the cooperation developed in the field of community cooperation both with Aetate and with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, are, of course, just an example of our thinking fully. I expect that the representative of Thorkildsen, who is strongly and positively involved in prison education, has been involved in the big message that the Minister of Education made out last week, which is just about about the importance of teaching and why it is so central to both providing content for the settlement and providing the opportunity for rehabilitation. The overall vision is that you have to think about several measures at the same time. But it is also that the sum of a criminal policy is both the job that the police do, the job that the courts do, and the job that the police do. It is not a matter of debate, nor of the content of the settlement, to break away from the other sides of this. When it comes to the sum, I stand for what I have done as Minister of Justice. I then presented what has been done so far the way I have done today. There's provided shelters more than and a half times Halden prison, and I think of multiple lines at the same time, or to use a way of thinking that the representative would probably use, I have several thoughts in my head at the same time, because it's very necessary to see different people not to think collectively about people. We're going to see the individuals and not cut people over one comb, and it's also about punishment and atonement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e602	I thank you for the answer, which in and of itself was the way I expected it to be. I'd like to take the last one first, the big message on prison education. What you should notice most about it is that you can't promise any money to follow it up. It is also our criticism of today's criminal policy, that there are so many words, there are so many visions, and then they are not followed up when the priorities are actually done. SV has followed up their own words by giving priority to increased resources both to criminal services, to prison libraries, to prison education and to the provision of health services in prisons. On Saturday, I volunteered for the Francisco aid, which is within the Catholic Church, and made a spring party for the street people. All the times I meet people on the street as directly, as I know that the Dørum Council is also very concerned about, there are some messages going on again – every single time. That's: you have to do something about poverty! You must reverse the priorities of today’s government! Many people are also concerned with housing prices. The point is that we cannot see the debate on prison systems and settlement cows independently of the priorities set out in the budgets. If we are to be able to reverse the trend that more and more people are being punished in prison, we also need to do something about post- protection. Where do we send these people when they're done zoning in what unfortunately looks more and more like storage places? There I come to the next thing the Council of State had to do, namely to continue the systematic efforts to provide quick settlements in the short term. That's what the council said. The council also said that today's coating is 97 pst. We're in there on some of the core, because if you have a covering of 97 pst. In prisons, it is said that it will be very difficult to follow up the people who are sitting there. Then, once again, we end up with what I've been talking about for several minutes now, which is that we keep people to a large extent instead of trying to do something about the causes of their crime and try to reverse the trend they're in. As long as that's the case, we're going to have an eternal debate in this big deal about cows, and it's going to be the same issues that will arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e617	There is no problem with an eternal debate. It makes sure to keep focus. But what is a problem is when the representative Thorkildsen repeatedly insists that it only performs words. Let me ignore my person, because I can take it. But the actions of the prison staff, the actions of the volunteers, which she herself has just mentioned, the actions of the peoples of the Social Action, the actions of the people of Aetat, the actions of education, are not words, they are actions! There are actions that are carried out every day, which make sure that we can say that we are keeping a humane regime, because it is our ideal in this country. We have countries around us where you try to think in a completely different way, and where you fill up in a way that we don't because we want to keep these ideals. That we then have a debate on this, I think it's very important, because it's not particularly popular outside the big room and the debate we're holding here, to think as systematically as we do. But I stand upright to follow all the thoughts and lines that I outlined in my main post to the representative. Yes, many actions are being performed, but I think the representative and I might jointly have to steal a socialist slogan from Sweden, and it goes like this: «Be proud, but not satisfied». One shall never try to blacken or ignore the efforts made, never ignore the efforts made better, but it is always allowed to strive for even more to create a solution. It's this image where you almost sign what's being done, which is going to be wrong. That you will then strive further, I think, first of all, that a fair and real political ambition, and I also believe that in the field in which we stand, that is absolutely necessary. For my part, I have exactly the same ambitions. When, as Minister of Justice, I first cut off the police budget to move something to criminal custody, it was also wrong. So whatever you do in the field, you have to find yourself in getting criticism, and I have to accept the criticism that goes against my person, because I'm responsible. But what I don't accept is that you don't broadly recognise the efforts of great people who work in our prisons, that you don't recognise the efforts of everyone else who goes into the riots and makes an effort. As the representative may know, I've visited about all the prisons – I haven't been to Hustad Prison, but I've been to the other places – and it's a community spirit that characterizes all those who work in Norwegian prisons, which is good. It's the spirit of society that's important. I agree with the representative that it is important how to think municipally. It's very important, for example. That we have a child-restraint that extends into prisons to catch people, and it is very important to do so, for example. Oslo City Councils did the budgeting for the current year, when social assistance rates were improved, so that the poorest were given a better chance of a decent life. It's all about many of them that the representative meets in a very positive way on the street. That she cooperates with the Francisco aid, I also think is very good. It's an effort that's high-ranking. So my comment is, yes, let's keep striving, but let's be aware that we're making an effort, that we've still improved the effort. It is also my ambition to follow the line forward – be proud of what is happening, but not be “satisfied”.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e634	The working party is also ‘not satisfied’. I think we're going to let the cat out of the bag when it comes to this kind of debate, because it's not a criticism of those who work in the prison system, or do a big job out in criminal care, whether it's in freedom or in prison – rather on the contrary. This is a debate that needs to focus on the fact that we are 'not' satisfied with the policy pursued by the Government over the last four years. There is a debate in which one is now putting the index finger at perhaps the most sensitive point for this government's judicial policy. It is that we have had a queue in terms of compensation, which is totally unacceptable, and which means that the qualitative offer, the offer that people receive, is becoming too poor, and it involves an unreasonable pressure on the police and other actors who are trying to work against crime out there. The fact that there were 2,517 people in line in March is, according to the words and plans we have received from the Government in the last four years – soon totally unacceptable. If you keep going at the pace that the government has now set up, where it goes in the opposite direction, over the next two years, if it becomes the same government with the same policy, we will get a queue of approximately 4,000 people. It's totally unacceptable. If we're going to let the cats out of the bag in this case, in that case it's just about the Minister of Justice in his own college that you don't actually have to get more resources into criminal custody. The Workers' Party in such a debate is precisely what kind of great qualitative action is now to be taken to bring down the big queue, which has been growing in the Government of Dørum. In our opinion, budgetary comments from the other parties in the Grand Duchy should be read in connection with the last budget, where we pointed out that the construction of Halden prison must be started. Is that what money's going to do? Is that political will? Do you really want to use the Community's resources to reduce this queue by getting it started in Halden, which you've just been pushing ahead of you all along? I also want to mention the prison project in Inner Salt that has been on the plan sketch for a long time. People from both the Christian People's Party, the Left and other political parties have said that they will use funds for it. It would mean a drastic intrusion into the settlement queue that is now gradually weakening much of the legitimacy and confidence in the fight against crime. Yesterday we passed general criminal law. It is not useful here in the Storting simply to adopt stricter rules, new criminal law with good intentions, if people are still referred to queue and you get a much too late response that actually doesn't work. There are many types of measures that can be taken from the government side. Now we've only heard an outline of the spectres and small measures that have been taken, either in the case of modules or in the case of the release ten days before. Now action of a larger nature is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e645	Today's interpellation addresses a well-known problem, the reconciliation queue. It's still too long. It is therefore important that the measures adopted by the EEAS are fully implemented. The government parties have, with alternating support, received a majority for various projects that expand the settlement capacity. The measures adopted mean that this government has provided 421 new posts. So this is two and a half Ring-rich prison. It's not flattering, it's not small measures. There's a lot of creeks small that make a big pond. It's important. At the same time, we see that the sentences are longer, and that the prisoners are longer in prison. Thus, 91 200 more prison days have been produced in 2004 compared to 2002. The right will have a balance in the criminal justice chain. Therefore, it is important to start building up prison in Halden as soon as possible and to realise the project in Inner Salt, which Storberget was in. At the same time, we need to continue the work of detectives to track down opportunities for new settlements in existing prisons. To the extent possible, I and the Right think that more should be opened up to duplication where the verdicts are less than half a year and the circumstances of the building are conducive to it. The pay queue is a result of the number of judges handed down and the length of the sentence. Of course, it is positive that police and courts produce more cases, but it is important to note that the number of new prisoners is reduced by 5 pst. between 2002 and 2004, while the number of reported prison days has increased by 9 pst. It's true, as the interpellant pointed out, that there is a very large proportion of prisoners who have drug problems. It is therefore positive that the Government is now working intensively to bring up a case on drug law programmes. This, together with § 12 zoning, is action that needs to be taken as far as possible to break the bad crime spiral. It also has to be added, as the Council of State was also concerned, that we have had some unforeseen events, such as the fire in Trukstad prison, where 90 seats were put out of operation, and what happened in Molde. I have great faith in the job of the State Council Dørum and the government do and have done to get rid of the reconciliation queue. Creativity has been great. It should not be used against the Government, but it should be a positive measure that light and light are actually searched for new places of refuge. At the same time, we know that in the context of the new prison in Halden, as the Stortinget has said, quality assurance work has been necessary. This is now coming to an end, or is over, and I have great faith that the new measures will help to restore the balance of the criminal action chain. Then the representative of Thorkildsen comes with an unintelligible attack on the Clemet State Council and the prison education. Last night, Kristin Clemet was pictured in the paper where she was in conversation with inmates on the basis that she submitted St.meld on Friday. No 27, on training in criminal services, a message that has already received very good feedback from both staff and prisoners. In fact, it is other than the representative of Thorkildsen who is in contact with employees and prisoners in our prisons. Personal evidence may be interesting, but there won't be a whole criminal policy of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e662	It's an interesting debate that the interpellant has been going on here. It fits well in the extension of the debate we had last night, on the penal code. What is fascinating is that the representative Thorkildsen, in a familiar style, goes to and runs a debate largely in self-form. Of course, it's reassuring to be a witness of truth to the rest of the Norwegian community. The question is whether there is consistency between her experience and what are the real problems. I pointed out the exposure yesterday, and I'm going to give her credit for today too, but sometimes I think that the representative Thorkildsen might go a little far in claiming to be the only one who knows the problems, and who knows the solutions. In fact, I believe that the solutions lie in a political debate and a political process conducted in the Stortinget in various contexts, in interaction with the departments and other professional bodies. That's the way to design things and lay the groundwork for what's going to be a common policy. I think, unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, that it is that no one has a one-sided right to the truth in relation to the actions and opportunities of this problem. The representative of Thorkildsen is concerned about the solutions of the Progress Party, and I can draw her attention to the fact that it is mutual for us in terms of SV's approach to this. I have no bad conscience. If you look at the budget results for the current year, the Progress Party, together with the Government, has strengthened, among other things. the job in relation to victim and dependant care with ties to the Stine Sofies Foundation. We've done a job with the representative of Thorkildsen's homeland. I think what we've been dealing with is good and sensible action. Of course, we have also done so in relation to compensation and compensation problems by strengthening the allocation to Life After Atonement. So I really don't have a bad conscience. It is also likely that the SV and the Progress Party have a reasonably opposite approach to this issue. I experience it so that the representative of the SV indicates that there is a crime on the part of society. In the Progress Party, we will probably go further in the other direction and say that the individual must go on his own and take responsibility for his own actions. If we don't, we'll get a society where we're allowed to do what you want, and then you can owe it to society afterwards. The possibility of doing something about this is about having a diversity in relation to different measures. Different types of crime are to be punished in different ways, from prison to open-ended reconciliation and programme work. There I think the committee has reasonably agreed on what to do, and there is a large spectrum within this field. Of course, we need more places to make amends. There's a job the Council of State has to do, both within the Government and perhaps here to get a majority to implement it. Now we've been talking about it for a long time. It is time you did something with Halden and would like to use the Inner Salt if that would be possible. At the end of the day, this is probably about political priorities and political positions in each of us. All in all, the result is not better than the majority in this room is able to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e681	On the Evening Post website of February 22, this year, we read: ‘What the Government is doing is trickery. Later on, one does something when using measures such as duplication and progressive release, says Striking Representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen. [[two prisoners on each cell, red. Note.]] In fact, the government is doing something all the time. The challenges can be made visible by the fact that the housing queue had been around 2 500 people some time ago, but in October last year the number was less than 1 900 people. This is not a static challenge to be addressed. It's actually a challenge with a great deal of variation. Being able to handle it is something you have to spend different means and different efforts to depending on the time and number of the pay queue. When the representative of Thorkildsen now attacks the Minister of Justice, I have a feeling that sometimes it can be like setting up a smith. Atonement is a very complex problem and a major challenge for society as a whole. We know that the prisoners of the future today are at home with mother and father or in kindergarten. It is our responsibility that little children today do not end up in the arms of criminal justice. Thorkildsen’s description of the unfortunate prisoners makes it so that Norwegian prisons contribute to a safe demise. My impression of Norwegian prisons is that the prisoners meet with respect for both the system and the individual prisoners. There is a great deal of willingness and commitment to give the prisoner the opportunity to meet the freedom after settlement with new goals for the future. Atonement is a challenge for the whole of society, as I said. This challenge will help the Christian People's Party to find solutions. Christian People's Party is also for increased use of §12 soning. Recognised organisations in society offer prisoners at all prisons in the country to punish the last part of their sentence in cooperation with the prison under the conditions of Section 12. There is a clear expectation that the prisoner will take an active part in his/her own return course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e698	I want to pick up the thread from the interpellant, which is the importance of the content of the ransom. When the interpellant mentions that 60 pst. Of the prisoners, problems with drug use and only 5-10 pst. It tells me that someone is also struggling in prison. According to the Local Health Services Act, municipalities are required to facilitate the proper and good health care of the prisoners. This is conditional on the State also fulfilling its obligations. My claim is that this is not always the case. In the run-up to fewer pay queues and more prisoners, the prison municipalities see that they do not have the financial means to provide both the health service and the education to which the prisoners are entitled. Here the Minister of Justice may need to talk not only to the Minister of Education, but also to the Minister of Health. Education is one of the best crime prevention measures we have, and a big message unfortunately makes no summer. In general, the health problems among prisoners may be significant. They're complex, and they're more complex than the rest of the population. The municipality must require that there is some predictability in the construction of this healthcare. As you know, a new prison has been established at Vardåsen in Kongsvinger, in addition to the old prison, which has to be continued for several years. The municipality is trying to establish a health service. King's wings today have 125 prisoners, 77 of whom are in the closed section. The health service consists of two hundred pst. position of nurse and eight hours to doctor. Compared with Skien Prison, there are 82 closed settlements, and in that prison there are four hundred p.p.s. position doctor/ nurse, of which 50 pst. to play. You also have physiotherapist, etc. This difference between the newly established and the old prisons may be due to history, but it is important that these differences are corrected so that the prisoners can get the right service. The difference between the State of Skien incarceration and Kongswinger incarceration is 2.7 million. SEK for Skien and 1.5 million. kr to Kongswinger. Is the Council of State just as serious about the content of the settlement as it is about getting more prisoners in prison? It is a question that many people ask, because if not, as the interpellant has mentioned several times here, it is a place of detention where prisons are not also used as crime prevention measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e713	First, I would have asked that a legitimate criticism of a failed policy should be an expression of distrust for the amazing job that employees and volunteers in criminal matters and elsewhere do every single day, and it often does despite the priorities and grips that this government does, and that I have pointed out on several occasions. It's about an adhoc policy and a covering up to 97 pst, which makes it terribly difficult to get something constructive done while people zone. Then the representative of Greece fell heavily to the chest that I criticized his councillor, Clemet, to counter the fact that the prisoners are going to get school. I actually think I hit the nail on my head right there. My point was that there is a long way between the objectives of communications and the actual state budgets, where the money is given priority. There are at least 26 million missing, no matter what Greece may say. to maintain an already unsatisfactory school offer. It would have been more interesting if the representative of Greece would go into a discussion about how to reverse the pattern that is pointed out in particular. The Fafo report, which shows that there is a reverse pattern of education among the prison population of what it is among the rest of the population, and of what we can do while people actually son, so that they get a school that makes them better rusty when they get out of prison, instead of making a message that has a lot of good in it, but we know it doesn't follow money. Then to the representative Ellingen. This is not primarily about the testimony of individuals or the fact that Thorkildsen has been around in one or the other prison or in the Francisco aid. But it's about documented knowledge. In fact, I doubt whether the representative Ellingen has opened the Fafo report. At least he gets annoyed every single time that report is mentioned, but then he is also the representative of a party that is largely not interested in the knowledge being documented, but who on the other hand claims to be the voice of the people into the Storting. I think it would have been very good for criminal policy if the Progress Party too had been willing to go into a discussion about what is the reason why the people who are in prison have the background that they have. And once they're served on a silver barrel, what can we do with that? Especially in relation to drug problems. That's where I agree with Dørum's intentions, but the fact is that between 5 and 10 pst. Of those who have extensive drug problems, which are therefore approx. 60 pst. Among those in prison, treatment services are available while in prison. And so they're served on a silver barrel, that's just starting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e722	I concluded early that the criticism that is being addressed politically should go to me, because I have the responsibility that I have. I allowed myself to refer solely to the effort that was made, and I think it is good that it also came out from the interpellant's side. So it's like I'm trying not to skip a single responsibility in a single budget, but just illustrate that there can be a dilemma for more people in the room. I believe to remember that in the revised national budget in the spring of 2003, a large number of people, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, decided that a series of buildings should be built. On that list of buildings, as far as I remember, it was not a single prison measure. It must be pointed out that there are some challenges also for other representatives in this room when they are busy doing something about the reconciliation queue. That is why I allowed myself to be a little humble on my own behalf. I'm not going to be humble on behalf of others, but I'm equipped with useful memory, and it doesn't seem to be a glamour to get projects out. But, of course, it is my job to bring forward the projects that I say I am fighting for, and that the Stortinget believes I am going to fight for. It was supposed to be missing, too. In terms of content, it is that the Fafo report to which it is referred, we in the department have asked because we want to have the living conditions on the table. One of the most important examples of teamwork, on which we are now doing a lot of work, is in relation to the whole health service, because it is right, as the representative Fossum said, that it is absolutely crucial. It is crucial not only in the primary health service but also in the second line service, for example: in the case of psychiatry. We put a lot of work into it against the Ministry of Health and Welfare, because this is quite crucial. In the case of groceries, it is not known what money comes from the Storing Message before the budgets come. The announcements are just clear about politics, as the Clemet State Council has done. The money is in the budgets. When it comes to thinking completely, I hold on to the following: 292 new properties have been created. It's going to be 29 more this year. It's more than Halden Prison. It is a significant effort. The Vardåsen prison is a good prison, a modern and new prison. The fact that there are supplements within existing prisons is good. That we can build new ones in Tromsø is good. The sum of these are measures that point to the longer term. The measures applied to duplication are limited but are important grants. Prolonged release is not a long-term measure. It can only last until we get bigger institutions in place, and that's the institutions I've mentioned, Halden prison first and foremost, but also the plans and work of a prison in the Inner Salt. I share the interpellant's view of how important it is to think across professional boundaries and institutions, also between municipalities and in relation to the state. I'm going to work along all those lines of progress, too, in the course of the process – cross-cutting, conflict prevention and community sanctions, and I'm also of course going to be aware of how to use the open areas right, because the interpellant has a good point, that here's something that we can develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e742	Then we have finished dealing with case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e760	When children commit criminal offences, they must react quickly and in an appropriate manner. Rehabilitation and behavioural change must be central to the choice of response and must guide the design of the response selected. The parents are primarily responsible for implementing measures against children moving on the inclined plane. However, if parents do not have the power to fulfil this responsibility, child protection and, in some cases, criminal justice could also penalize the unfortunate behaviour of children. The worst thing we as a society can do to our children is to ignore the young. Clear limits in a care framework are the best of the child. It is impossible to talk about youth and crime without at the same time reflecting on the causes of illegality. When a 15-year-old robs a fellow student or sells drugs to classmates, it may be due to both difficult home conditions and a bad association. But it may also be due to lack of leisure, bullying or general dissatisfaction at school. Knowledge of the causes of crime is of primary importance in preventing illegalities. Crime must be prevented in several ways and on several fronts. Both parents, adults in the community, non-governmental organisations and the public are challenged. Efforts are required from many to raise a child! Prisoning of children under 18 years of age shall only take place exceptionally. Unconditional prison sentences are generally imposed only when the young person has committed serious crimes or is a major relapse offence. Where the offender is under 18 years of age, his age shall be weighted in a mitigating manner by both the prosecution authority and the court in relation to the measurement of penalties. When crime is committed by young people, it should, as a general rule, be responded to with other than prison: The transfer of criminal proceedings to the conflict council means that the offender is confronted with the victim in the case, and an attempt is made to find an amicable solution. The outcome of the conflict management is often a profound reluctance and understanding of the unfortunateness of the action. A little more preventive. Therefore, conflict resolution should be widely used against young offenders. Societal punishment means getting settled through a certain number of hours of social effort. This type of criminal reaction has also proved to be effective, and it is often an appropriate response when the offender is young. The Christian People's Party hopes that this arrangement will continue on a permanent basis. It is necessary to think about new and creative responses to children and young people who have committed crime. In the 2005 budgetproposal, the Government announced that it would propose anadjudicating system with the drugs programme, or ‘Drug Court’, already in the revised national budget. This means that a drug addict can be sentenced to treatment instead of to traditional punishment. Not least for young offenders, this could be a good opportunity to get life back on the straight track. The Law on the Protection of Children provides for measures to be taken in the field of detention. However, this possibility is rarely used, because access to space and resources is limited. The Christian People's Party believes that detention in an institution subject to child protection will in many cases be the best solution. The need for social protection and evidence protection could be met by a closed-ended child-residence institution while at the same time providing better care for the child than is the case in prison. It is therefore important for us to invest in the development of closed child protection institutions for young people on the slope. But most importantly, child protection intervenes early against families who are struggling with their children, so that parents can get the help they need to supervise their children and thus keep them on the right side of the law. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that the threshold should be high for the imprisonment of children under 18. However, like all other parties in the Judicial Committee, we believe that there should be an opportunity for the courts to judge prison even when the perpetrator is young. Persons under the age of 18 may at times commit such serious criminal acts that imprisonment is necessary both for reasons of general prevention and for the purpose of maintaining social tranquillity. If one imagines that it was not possible to imprison a 17-year-old rape offender, but that he could only be sentenced to social punishment, then the confidence that the decisions of the judiciary reflect the seriousness of the criminal act would be greatly reduced. In the ultimate sense, such a system could undermine respect for the rule of law, which is important to avoid. When the courts consider it necessary to imprison a person under the age of 18 — or a person under the age of 21 — the prison environment must be qualitatively different from whether the decision concerns an adult with many criminal convictions. In these cases, it is particularly important that criminal justice facilitates the situation during the detention period in order to minimise the burden on the young person. As of December 2004, 61 persons under the age of 21 were detained in Norway. At the same time, 122 youths under 21 reported imprisonment. The numbers can't be said to be insignificant. I have previously called for the setting up of separate departments for young prisoners in one or two Norwegian prisons. The aim of this proposal was precisely to ensure a qualitative second prison stay for the youngest prisoners. It is particularly important that young prisoners are provided with a well-organised educational service. We know that many prisoners in Norwegian prisons have little or no formal education — and education is an important premise for a crime-free life after an end of settlement. In addition, many are struggling with drug problems. Others need expert assistance to process evil experiences or to control aggression. Such assistance is particularly important to offer those who are early in a criminal career. The proposal on own youth services was endorsed by several teams, but also met with some criticism. The main objection to the proposal was that a number of young prisoners would have to zone far from their loved ones if only one to two such specialised departments were set up. This is a criticism that both I and the Christian People's Party take seriously. We all know that the need for contact with family, girlfriend and friends is important – even for those who pay a prison sentence. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for special offers for young prisoners in all the criminal care regions of the country. I hope and believe that the Minister of Justice will pursue this proposal in the budgetary work of the coming years. During the examination by the Judicial Committee of the odelstingsproposition on new criminal law, it was decided to ask the Government for its own notification of the compensation of persons under 18 years of age at the time of imprisonment. Such a message will give the Storting a long-term opportunity to take a comprehensive review of the situation of the youngest prisoners. An overall objective of such a review must be quality improvement, individual adaptation and rehabilitation. The reason why I have today focused on the imprisonment of children and young people is that it is particularly important in these cases that criminal justice organises the situation during detention so that the burden on the young person is minimised. Societies sometimes have to react with prison sentences – also against young offenders – but in these cases the stay in prison must be particularly forward-looking. I am now excited to hear how the Minister of Justice believes that criminal services should meet young offenders, and what reactions he believes are best suited to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e814	I agree with the representative Einar Holstad that young offenders should meet as much as possible with reactions other than prison. Prisoning and custodial detention of young convicted persons should be avoided as far as possible and should only occur in the event of very serious offences. If young people under the age of 18 are sentenced to prison, the transfer to a child protection institution will be a possible solution. Young people will also be a good reason to transfer sentences to other types of treatment institution where they can be treated for any drug problems or other problems. To date, there have been very few prisoners under 18 years of age, and therefore there is virtually no specific regulation for young people to carry out punishments in ordinary prisons. Today’s legislation, however, provides a great opportunity to develop individualised schemes for the implementation of penalties, and emphasis is placed on making arrangements as prudent as possible. In several areas, the Guidelines on the Criminal Enforcement Act provide for special consideration for young prisoners and provide for good opportunities to derogate from the usual rules if the prisoner is young. This applies, inter alia, to: in the selection of prisons and the possibility of implementing the prison sentences with a lower level of security. Provision is also made for young prisoners to be particularly motivated to participate in training. In addition to training opportunities, the Contact Officer and Programme Activities scheme will provide opportunities for good arrangements for individualised criminal execution with emphasis on rehabilitation. These possibilities are widely used but should be further developed and improved. The use of community sanctions will often be appropriate for young convictions that need an immediate and noticeable response with clear consequences for breach of conditions. Similarly, the use of conflict resolution is an appropriate response for the youngest. The conflict council brokers both in criminal cases involving children over 18 years of age and in cases of otherwise criminal offences in which the perpetrator is under the criminal detainee. It is the prosecution authority that decides, as a general rule, the transfer of criminal cases to conflict resolution agencies where the cases are suitable for this purpose. More than 7,500 cases were transferred from the police to the conflict councils in 2004. The Ministry of Justice will review in the current year the practice of dealing with the most recent offenders entering prison. The number of persons under the age of 18 in Norwegian prisons is small, and was per year. On 5 December 2004, seven persons, three of whom were held in custody and four were sentenced. However, the number increases significantly when the group is included up to the age of 21. The number of this group was at the same time increased by 176 persons, 58 of whom were registered and 118 were sentenced. But, as I said, for the youngest group, fortunately, we have very small numbers. The Ministry of Justice is now examining proposals for a pilot project targeting young prison and custody prisoners, which contains offers specifically tailored to the specific needs and rights of young people. Rehabilitation and behavioural change will be central to the development of the offer. Furthermore, important areas will be the need for education, psychiatry and care and the proximity of caregivers. We are setting up a working group to be set up by people with high professional qualifications and experience from working with young offenders. Work shall be carried out on the establishment of a specialised unit for the youngest in each of the six regions of criminal services, in order to maintain the closeness of family, community and local networks. Units shall be manned with highly competent persons, in relation to the special needs of young people for treatment, care and proximity. For young offenders serving prison sentences, it will be central to ensuring that follow-up and motivation work from prison to home are seen in an overall context, and to seek to achieve continuity for individuals, out of prison, through follow-up to home and society. I therefore assume that the actions of the judicial authorities alone are insufficient in the field of child and youth crime. Different sectors of society, levels of government, civil society and neighbourhoods need to be conscious of their responsibilities and to work to achieve even better coordination of work both at system level and at individual level. The pilot project shall therefore be established in close cooperation with the relevant management partners. On the basis of this recognition, the Ministry of Justice set up a pilot project in 2003/2004 called ‘Snow young offenders in time — a joint responsibility for the state, the municipality and the community’. The project is run in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and has its origin in an explicit desire to translate into practice an understanding that joint efforts are required from the various sectors of society such as justice, health care, school, child protection, civil society and the community in order to have the opportunity to succeed in combating childhood and juvenile delinquency. This is a project that targets young people both below and above the criminal lavallier, and is intended to run from 2004 to 2006. The Ministry of Justice's new projects include: based on the experience of the project that I have outlined here, i.e. «Snow young offenders in time». The proposal shall be based on current knowledge, research and experience and shall lead to an evaluation of an experimental activity. Let me also show that in the case of e.g. In 2003, there were 786 final judges, 79 of whom were under 18 at the time of implementation and 109 were in the 18-19 age group. In the case of conflict council cases, as I have mentioned, it was approx. 6 100 cases that went to the conflict council in 2001 and well and well 7 500 cases in 2004 after a failure in 2002. So this has taken it very clearly, and that's the result of a deliberate bet, just as the community penalty is the result of a deliberate bet -- it's been committed to it. I think I have to add that we must all succeed in thinking differently about how child protection can be out in the past. I have previously said the following, and I repeat it: then it is important that local people elected by professional development over the past 30-40 years in many cases for children have actually been sitting in budgets because the individual cases are handled by case handlers, not taking over the case handler's job, but getting insight into how children in such situations are doing. I think that is a very necessary knowledge to achieve the administrative cooperation that lies behind the representative's interpellation, and also behind important contributions that were made here yesterday when we dealt with the general part of the penal code. Local populace can by simply becoming ombudsmen for children in clamping not take the proceedings but ensure that the cooperation between the public enterprises in the community and the state's two establishments, whether local or regional, succeeds. As a small example, we are in a process of turning something into what we call ‘Stifinner’n junior’ in Oslo prison. It was such an unusual issue for child protection to enter prison that the first year paid the Ministry of Justice for the position, the second year we split it, and the third year came Oslo municipality. This may vary in many different places in the country. In many places it works in an excellent way. But it is that it often needs some bonding to get to this administrative cooperation. I used to have as an example the Barm Centre on Hamar, which is a place run by the Church's Social Service, with few employees, but many volunteers, who simply become a meeting place where different local authorities and state agencies, read: prisons and the judiciary, can meet in such a way that the people concerned are not being packed, but being seen as human beings. It made my impression in this context – I have been at the centre several times – that the rapporteur said that we need just such a place where we are freed from the roles, in order to think differently about how to pursue the profession. I think it is very necessary to achieve the purposes that the representative Holstad addresses in his contribution. Because we have a lot of skilled professionals in Norway, but in many ways we have to ask ourselves the question of how we set them free in a good way in close cooperation with each other. And it's not just in criminal matters, which is the topic, but also, as the representative took up in his interpellation, further against child protection, against the services that exist in the community. It is also representative of the fact that of the projects we have put into action in what is called the ‘Snow young offenders in time’, one, in Østfold, is precisely mobilising civil society, i.e. non-governmental organisations, where binding networks are being built. I also think taking the ADHD problem seriously is very important. I can mention here that there is a project in Bergen prison where diet is an important topic. It's based on very important research-based efforts in British prisons, and it combines sea food, which can be very good, with food supplements, just to give people the chance of a better life. I end by saying that my best example of being in advance long before one comes to prison comes from a place in Eastfold, where in a municipality we have a principal who is free. He finds a child-responsor who is free, and fortunately there is a regional child- and youth psychiatrist who says, "That's well local, good luck!" Then we get examples that youth who could otherwise have been stuttered and ended up in prison, actually turns around in time, someone who is very violent and dangerous, turns around and becomes almost a model example. So this administrative cooperation, where all the knowledge we have in society both locally and nationally, is being used, is perhaps one of the most important tasks we have to meet the challenge that the representative addressed in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e856	I thank the Minister of Justice for his good input. It is obvious that this challenge with children in prison cannot be solved by the justice sector alone. This is a social responsibility, this is a responsibility for parents, the community, kindergarten, school and municipal activities that can help children find themselves and their function in too many difficult and challenging societies. Prevention costs money. It must start long before children meet the police and the judiciary. Early-stage prevention is the cheapest solution. There is a link between parental care failure towards children and the challenges children represent for different municipal departments. The main challenges facing cities and populous municipalities around them are: Many of these municipalities have a registered income per person. population that is among the lowest in the country. This reinforces the challenge for these municipalities in relation to meeting children with problems at an early stage. ‘Turning young offenders in time’ means facilitating children never to become offenders. That is why multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation is so important. The knowledge and experience developed through cooperation must reach the children in time. We want a safe community with good growing conditions for children and young people. There are many actors both in the police and in the municipalities who are working towards this goal, and it is important to coordinate work to achieve a good result. Coordination of local crime prevention measures is no new idea. In Denmark, this work has been under way since the early 1970s and is called the SSP, which provides for cooperation between school, social services and the police. At the beginning of the 1990s, the Crime Prevention Council launched a project in seven municipalities where over three years, one tried out a model of cooperation on local crime prevention. Central actors in the project were the same as in Denmark: school, child protection, health and social affairs and police. Projects were organised differently, depending on local circumstances, and evaluated. In the autumn of 2004, 98 municipalities were registered and several were in the start-up phase. At present, both small and large municipalities have introduced the SLT, as well as several municipalities have joined forces in a joint SLT work in the form of regions. When I spend so much time on this, it's to follow up a common goal all parties have, namely, prison is not a suitable place for children. Therefore, prevention at all levels is necessary to achieve this objective. I am pleased that the children who still have to be in prison are offered a specialised unit in each of the six regions of criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e869	Let me use some examples to show that once you're aware, I was once in a prison in the East where I got the story of a 15-year-old who had been sitting there, but who had started her career as a 7-year-old. It is quite serious to consider that the 15-year-old among the employees of the prison for the first time found something similar to a family. Then we must at least take into account that in the eight years that had gone from he was seven until he was 15, much must have happened, or not happened, I don't know anything about, in Norwegian communities. But at least that's for thought. This shows that, in addition to the question of the representative, Holstad, when you first got there that you should be inside, you have to meet in the special way that he spoke about, and as I replied, you have to take the other perspective: what do we do before we get there? Let me give you another example: Sarpsborg is a large township. Most will know that there have been dramatic social changes in a state like Eastfold. However, over a 20-year period, local work, by an outstanding policeman and other good forces, has led to what we can call the so-called worsting list – that is a bad word, but it is young people who have lost their feet and who are left on that list – being reduced from a large two-digit number to a low number, a very small number. When you ask them about this, you get the message that you see early, take hold early and work together. All those who cooperate are all the forces in a local environment. It is clear that the municipality is central to this, but the police are also central, so all these forces – municipalities, non-governmental organisations, police – take hold of this and do it, and then you get the results. You've been doing it for a very long time, but the results are coming. I think that some of the things that are needed to achieve what the representative Holstad wants to do with what he has brought up is just to create this Norwegian community building, to which we are quite good at, but in which it is not so easy to translate, we should call it, tabloid political sales. Because it's a good story, and good stories that are relayed and re-created, create great strength compared to rocking people. But those stories can't just be in the representative of Holstads and my own, they must be in the possession of a lot of Norwegian local citizens. And they are, too, so that when I spoke about what is going on locally, it was stretching out my hand to a collaboration between local elected representatives and at the same time some of the most decentralised we have in Norway – and what is that? Well, it's the health service, which is both state and local, and it's the police, which are state-owned, but which exist very many places locally. I think there's an effort that, in sum, can help prevent some of the situations. But first come into the prison institution, we have to think, alternatively, as I have outlined in my response to the interpellation of the representative Holstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e878	Let me first express great joy at once that once again, completely cross-political in the Storting so clearly states that children do not belong in prison. It may sound banal, but it's not, and it's not obvious if we look across borders and look at what other countries do in relation to meeting childhood and juvenile delinquency. I think that is a value in the Norwegian political debate we should not, in fact, squander on party politics. That is why I am pleased both with what the Minister of Justice has said in the debate and with the initiative of the inter-pellant. Perhaps it can be that, when we get a closer look at how the situation of children in prison — the few who are there — can go so far as to support the proposals that SV and the Labour Party promoted in the Storting yesterday — and which unfortunately fell — which were just about clearly limiting the use of custody in relation to children, which were about limiting the use of custody prison, and which were also about limiting the length of any compensation. It was also about extending the use of community sanctions, especially in cases where people are actually responding with conditional punishment to ensure that there is some response at all. The developments we have seen in the use of social sanctions, conflict advice and youth contracts are very positive and, as the Labour Party believes, contribute to keeping the level of crime among children and young people relatively low. Nevertheless, it is a challenge, which the Minister of Justice was also faced with, to identify and define and clarify the role of child protection against juvenile criminals. It is quite obvious that the instruments of child protection and the law governing child protection should also be used to a greater extent – in the view of the Labour Party, it would be more effective – in order precisely to safeguard the interests of criminal protection in relation to adults, in particular to prevent the repetition of criminal offences and to protect other citizens, but not least in order to get children and young people on the right track. It's a pleasure to over 98 pst. in Norway, young people are never charged with any criminal offences. However, the Labour Party believes that the main challenge now may be to maintain the high percentage. The fact that municipalities first cut children’s and young people’s offers, the local solution of drug policy on the basis of the patterns of the Progress Party and the more bourgeois parties, are factors that can contribute to increasing child and youth crime. I guess that's where we get the biggest party political battle in the future. But that doesn't mean it's less important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e889	The fight against childhood and juvenile delinquency is and must be a high priority area, primarily because society has a responsibility to prevent the development of a long criminal career, to the detriment of young people themselves and their immediate surroundings. The representative of Storberget said instead that he is pleased with the agreement that children should not be placed in prison. And – yes – the representative of Storberget is right in saying clearly that children who commit minor crimes have nothing to do in prison. But the representative of the Storberget elegantly omitted is that in the case of serious and serious violent crime and moral crimes, only the Workers' Party and the SV want social punishment for these crimes. All the other parties believe that crimes such as gross violent crimes and moral crimes, gross rapes, actually deserve a different response from society than a few hours of work. There is the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party on their own, and it is very happy. Right-wing opinion is important that we have instruments other than prison to use to prevent young people from getting a long leaflet, but this is true in less serious cases. Children and young people at risk for the development of illegal behaviour, risks being thrown into their local environment between police, child protection, drug care, health services and school systems, as are current laws and practices. It's just as important that we manage to get to that end and do something with the cooperation between these levels. It is important to ensure a clear position of responsibility between the various bodies meeting the offences of minors, because it is in fact where there is the possibility of changing behaviour and stopping further offences. Right wants an obligatory basis for cooperation between law enforcement, auxiliaries, parents and the young person himself. I would like to congratulate the representative, Holstad, who has taken the initiative in this interview. It's an important topic. But it can't be that we let young offenders who commit gross acts of violence, rapes and other serious moral crimes go free without society responding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e900	The representative of Holstad addresses an important topic. One has to go far in order to avoid children having to zone in prison. But it is important that criminal acts also have consequences for the perpetrator. It also applies to those under the age of 18 and to young first-time offenders. In fact, it is important for preventive reasons that young people see that there are consequences associated with crime. Then we come to the question of what kind of reaction is appropriate. The Progress Party considers it important to have a wide range of possible reactions. In particular, a range of measures is important for first-time offenders and young offenders. It is important that criminal services can meet young people in an appropriate way. Getting young people out of a criminal racetrack, you've achieved a lot, not just for the people themselves, but also for society in the longer term. We all agree that we have achieved very little if a younger person who has done something stupid becomes a professional criminal after he has been punished. This is why the content and framework of the punishment are particularly important for young people. And that's why follow-up even after the settlement is over, is very important to prevent them from coming back and becoming repeaters. However, I think it is important to bear in mind that in the Norwegian system it is going to be very much until a young person or a first-time criminal actually has to zone. Very often, these offenders have been around crime on a fairly large scale before they get a concrete punishment. Perhaps it would be appropriate to have alternative responses at an earlier stage rather than to collect prosecutions, conditional judges and others initially non-existent penalties before a prison sentence is imposed. It is important for preventive reasons that other young people are told that crime is not free only because they are young. But, as I said, it's important that we have a range of responses and a prison system that can deal with the toughest issues when young people once actually have to zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e911	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. We've been in the debate on the radio, for example, in several rounds about exactly this earlier. What we were concerned about then was precisely whether we were going to set up our own departments, very centralised, which would lead to children not having contact with their local environment, and that the rehabilitation process would deteriorate as it were. I am very happy that it is now turned back, and that you have not intended to do it this way. I think it's good that through constructive discussions and counter-representations, we can come up with something that gets better than if you hadn't gotten those counter-representations. Then I will also give praise to the Dørum Government Council, which I believe has taken the initiative in several rounds on precisely child and youth crime, including, among other things. action plans. I know that the department is working on an action plan now, which we on SV's side are very excited about. But this is a terribly important field, and it is clear that we need to have more thoughts in our head at once. One is how to prevent children from committing criminal acts at all. This includes, among other things: important to acquire knowledge of those who have committed criminal acts. You can do that, for example. do by looking a little bit at the Fafo report, which says 30 pst. of those in prison were in contact with the protection of children before the age of 16 and the same number have had family members in prison. So this is something to which it relates a certain social inheritance. With regard to the use of conflict advice, I believe it needs to be increased. There we are in line with the Government. At the same time, SV and the Workers' Party want to take a step further and say that we want a forced transfer of matters to the conflict council, with the exception of morality. There is a right hand case that they can possibly run us on if they want to, because it will mean that in some violent cases it will be assessed by the conflict councils whether it would make sense to run a round in the conflict council, well to notice if it is voluntary on the part of both parties – so both parties have to agree to it. I have seen closely that it may make sense also in quite serious cases, because people are being held responsible in a completely different way than if they are placed in prison. They're actually going to have to face those they've done something terrible seriously against, and it can have a better effect than if they're just being placed in a prison, which for some people won't be seen as a liability. We had 48 children or minors in prison last year. The Children's Ombudsman is very concerned about this. The torture committee comes to Norway to look at this. Then we also have to relate to how we're going to handle it when they're sitting there. Here I believe that the government has not really taken over the damage, for example. In the case of children, total isolation has not been achieved, nor have enough people with adequate child-care skills been employed in prisons. And I also believe that Stifinner’s junior should get a more liberal budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e922	It is clear that this theme does not contribute to the huge conflict in this house, and I am pleased about that. I am pleased with this consensus in relation to registering challenges and expressing agreed objectives. As far as possible, children shall not be admitted to prison. At the same time, this debate has revealed a need for better coordination between different departments, perhaps not least in understanding how to address this challenge at local level. Then I think about the prevention work in particular. I am also pleased with what has been presented in the debate on examples in which we have actually been able to show results. I want to take this with me and will also encourage everyone else to take this with me in the further work, as proof that joint effort is beneficial. I think it is important that we practice common efforts, but at the same time also raise awareness of fellow politicians at other levels of administration that this is not a challenge that the Storing alone can solve, this is a challenge that we must face together at all levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e929	Let me start with a point on which most people actually agree, namely a note in connection with the treatment of the general section of the penal code yesterday, where the majority stated that they did not want a juvenile prison. No one has spoken about today either, and I would like to add: it must be one of the most successful failures that have been evaluated in Norway and in other countries. It's a path that leads to nothing but the broad loss both for individuals and for society – I have to be allowed to express myself so directly about it. When it comes to the issue that we have debated today, about children in prison, I think it is important to provide some information. The number of those aged under 18 who have been sentenced has dropped from 16 to 13 in the period 2001–04, and 95 in 2001 and 48 in 2004 were in custody. That means that as a society, we are very strict when we do this, and probably it means that in the same period, for example. There has been a rather dramatic increase in the number of conflict councils, with a dramatic increase in the level of social penalties. But I think the big challenge we are facing, which is unsolved even after today's debate, is to achieve the cooperation between good forces in a local environment – read: municipal bodies, volunteers in the local environment and state agencies. Then it is that the two most decentralised state agencies we have, the health services and the police, we find almost everywhere, and connecting contacts is very important. I used the example of Sarpsborg. I must add that Sarpsborg is a so-called SLT municipality, i.e. a municipality for the coordination of local crime prevention measures. They've invested systematically and for a long time, and it's given results. What is a major challenge is, among other things: the work of child protection. I have said from this pulpit in the past, and I would like to repeat it again: we are educating a lot of young people. These young people we put in responsible relationships with people who need help. So, for example, we're equipping. child-restraint workers with five large legal ringbusters, and then they are often pressured by budget managers. And what do you get? Then you get a life-saving case handler. If you're going to set a young person free to do a job, you're going to have staff managers who have back coverage in local politicians, who have the security to realize that you're going to develop by working with difficult things in life. So this isn't a sedentary, seductive -- it's just a challenge for all parties, that local elected representatives have to enter into an ombudsman role. Just as I, as Minister of Justice, feel in an ombudsman role for the Norwegian people, as elected by the Norwegian citizens, by standing on this pulpit, you also have to get that mentality everywhere. When you cooperate in that ombudsman role, you also release the good professionals, whether they are younger or older in years. There are some of the tools that are needed to achieve the interpellant's purpose with the interpellant, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e941	That being the case, it is no. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e955	The background to this case is the tax decision taken by the Stortinget for the income year 2005. Paragraphs 3-5, fourth paragraph, state that 25 pst should be answered. taxes on dividends on shares and interest on certificates issued to taxpayers belonging to or residing abroad — i.e. withholding tax. If the tax rate after tax agreements with foreign countries – and we have a number of such agreements – should be lower, it is the one to apply. The EFTA Court delivered an advisory opinion on 23 November 2004 on the relationship between the EEA Agreement and the Norwegian rules on withholding tax on dividends from Norwegian companies to shareholders resident abroad. There is reason to draw attention to this, and the Ministry of Finance has brought this matter to our attention. We focus on what the EFTA Court is doing here. In the vote, the majority of the members indicate that the introduction of the exemption method from the 2004 income year removes the uncertainty represented by the RISK system and compensation in relation to the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of capital, by providing for a non-discriminatory treatment of dividends to shareholders resident in Norway and in another EEA country. From 2006 onwards, the Aktionar model implies that the current RISK and remuneration system can also be liquidated for personal shareholders. It is also important to include in this case. The majority also emphasises the avoidance of solutions that create uncertainty in relation to the EEA Agreement. Int. O. No In fact, for the financial committee 2004-2005 on the 2005 tax and tax regime, amendments, the majority of the Committee stated that it is an unconditional advantage of the shareholder model that dividends from Norwegian and foreign shares are treated in a non-discriminatory manner, because one realised that current rules are contrary to the EEA Agreement. The EFTA Court’s opinion of 23 November 2004 concludes, in the light of recent legal developments, that the Norwegian rules on withholding tax on dividends are contrary to the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of capital. This is what we are now taking note of, and the Financial Committee is unanimous in recommending to the Grand Duchy that the new third sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 3-5 be replaced by the following: ‘Taxes referred to in this subparagraph shall not be payable by legally distributed shares and interest on certificates of basic funds distributed to the personal rightholder residing in an EEA State.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e973	I will first join in what the case spokesperson said in this case. We welcome the fact that one here is correcting the tax ruling for the income year 2005 when it relates to source taxes on dividends, so that this is in line with the appointment of the EFTA Court on 23 November 2004. The background to this appointment from the EFTA Court is the so-called ‘parking cases’, which lie several years back in time. However, the Minister of Finance has concluded that this candidate in the EFTA Court needs no retroactive effect. We've assessed it so that we don't want to argue against the Minister of Finance here. The Minister of Finance may be right about that. But I believe that the time to come – and in particular the case that is now in Frosting Lawyers – will give a very good and clear signal as to whether what the Minister of Finance concludes is correct or not. Questioning Lawyers may choose to ignore the appointments of the EFTA Court, and they may also choose to follow them. What the Progress Party will do in this matter is simply to follow up on what happens next, and we expect the Minister of Finance to follow the developments in the judiciary in this matter. We also take the view that the Minister of Finance is right if it turns out that developments are going in a direction that the Minister of Finance has not taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e982	Arguments can be given both for and against the changes in the withholding tax on dividends for which the majority is in favour. The reaction of the Central Party is how the majority justifies its position. The majority of the Committee notes that current rules are likely to be contrary to the EEA Agreement. The majority would like to be for changes in the withholding tax on dividends. However, it is clear from the centre party that this needs to be justified on the basis of appropriateness and not in relation to the EEA Agreement. The Central Party considers that there is an unfortunate development that Norway in increasingly new areas accepts a slippage of the scope of the EEA Agreement, and that we are allowed to be governed by the EU in areas where we have previously stood firm outside the scope of the agreement. At the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, it was provided that the agreement should not cover fiscal policy. The Norwegian authorities have also previously argued to the EFTA Court that the withholding tax on dividends is in line with the EEA Agreement. I would also like to point out that the Government of the Proposition writes that the opinion of the EFTA Court is advisory. The party considers that the Norwegian authorities must maintain that Norway is not obliged by international law to make changes to the Norwegian tax rules, and that any changes are therefore not justified in the light of the EEA Agreement. Although this may not be the biggest issue, there may be other cases later where Norwegian tax policy is challenged by the EEA Agreement. From the outset, we have seen how the charging policy, as was also said, should be exempted from the agreement, be affected by the EEA Agreement. It keeps mentioning what happened to the differentiated employer fee. The parties therefore believe that Norway should stand firm on its position in principle and not bow to the nine interpretation of the Agreement by the guardian of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e995	When I hear the comments of the representative of the People's Party and read the comments of the People's Party, it becomes a little bit unclear to me whether he and the People's Party really disagree with the change that is being made, or whether that is just the reason for the change, that is, the consideration of the EEA Agreement, which is a problem. What the EFTA Court has said is that the practice of withholding taxes in Norway is contrary to Article 40 on free capital movements. There is therefore no direct intervention in Norwegian tax policy. The vast majority of the Committee has sought solutions that do not create uncertainty in relation to the EEA Agreement. The majority of the committee also said the same when it came to introducing the shareholder model, namely that Norwegian and foreign shareholders were given equal treatment, as the rapporteur has also pointed out in his statement. It is important that Norwegian enterprises do not encounter discriminatory legislation in other EEA countries, and our changes, such as with the withholding tax, are of course part of a mutual process, where other countries have to change their rules so that Norwegian businesses are not discriminated against, against non-residents being discriminated against here in the country. This is good for Norwegian business. The reduction of barriers to trade leads to an increase in growth and thus to an increase in the basis for more well-being. To this end, it is tempting to refer to the consideration of the Communication of Perspectives, where a large majority of the Committee on Finance stated in its opinion that the strong and long-term international economic growth of the last decades is largely due to increasing trade and the reduction of barriers to trade. It is tempting to take as an example the oil, which we sell freely on the world market, and insofar also other raw materials that are of great importance to our small country. Without access to markets, our oil and gas resources and other resources had very little value. Then it would also be a little more difficult to operate such an active and expansive promise policy as the one that flows against us from the national meeting after the national meeting this spring. The EEA rules apply to us in any case, but as an EU member we would have had more opportunity to influence them. This matter therefore reminds us of the unfortunate thing about being outside the European Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1010	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1028	Mr Heidi Grande Røys shall have the floor instead of the President-in-Office, Mr Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1031	Today, we have a proposal from the representatives of Inger S. Enger, Ola D. Glötvold, Morten Lund and Rune J. Kjörlaaen on the VAT exemption for the translation of alternative energy for household use. The majority of the Committee recommends that the document be annexed to the Protocol, while a minority, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, present a proposal in line with what has been presented in the document. I assume that the minority itself is doing something for its own eyesight, so I will continue on behalf of the case-speaker, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, focus on his view of the plural – that is. The party of progress has its own basis in the form of a comment, but therefore supports the proposal for a decision, as the rest of the majority does. The majority are in favour of increasing the use of alternative energy in households. We need to increase the investment in new renewable energy sources such as wind power, bioenergy, solar energy and wave power. Such energy sources do not emit hazardous greenhouse gases and, in addition, impose less on the local environment than traditional energy sources. There is also a significant potential for energy efficiency improvement in Norway that can be triggered by active drug use. However, the question is whether the exemption from VAT on the translation of alternative energy is, or may be, such an instrument. To that it is said that we have different opinions about it in the committee. The majority point out that such a commitment to new renewable energy sources must, as a general rule, be made to the state budget through subsidies and other forms of direct political support, rather than as a tax haven. The importance of an intelligible and effective tax system means that financial support for specific purposes should be provided directly through such a priority, and not indirectly through light or tax deductions. In the case of interconnections with the current VAT exemption for alternative energy sources in North Norway, the exemption was due to non-discrimination with electricity, which is exempt from VAT in this part of the country. An extension proposed by the proposers of the VAT exemption for alternative energy sources to the whole country is to give rise to a new discrimination, and I would like to believe that a requirement that electricity should also be released, and then we are in a rather hopeless situation. The majority therefore recommended that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. Having said that, I would like to add, for SV's part, that we would like to pay tribute to the Center Party to put the issue of increasing the use of alternative energy on the agenda. There is something we work on continuously with ourselves, and we have several times suggested a large-scale effort on alternative heating, for example. in winter 2002–2003, with support for households that would invest in heat pumps or pellet stoves, a scheme that was very popular but unfortunately lasted very short. Instead of using the tax system, SV will continue to promote such proposals through priorities in the State budget. In these words, I would recommend the setting of the plural number.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1055	Norway is an energy storm power both on a European scale and on a world scale. We have unused, environmentally friendly reserves of hydropower and, in practice, unlimited gas resources that can be used for the production of electricity. Gas power is considered to be internationally environmentally friendly. The fact that we in Norway have not managed to produce enough with reasonable electricity but have made ourselves dependent on imports is, in the view of the Progress Party, a political problem, which should be solved politically by facilitating the increased use of our hydropower resources and the use of gas in power generation. Other, so-called alternative energy sources are, of course, also in use, and will be, in the future, perhaps to an increasing extent. However, the Progress Party has a fundamental view that energy from different sources should be treated in a non-tariff way, as this will give us the most cost-effective use of energy resources. The fact that the Progress Party has previously opted for VAT exemption for alternative energy in the action zone in North Norway is based on the principle of non-discrimination, because electricity already had such an exemption. In this context, the Progress Party will not support the proposal for fiscal discrimination or proposals for selective support schemes for individual energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1066	The proposal we are promoting today is not supported by the majority of Storting, as indicated in the vote. However, we are pleased that the majority here are behind the Centre Party's objective of stimulating the increased use of alternative energy in households and that there is a significant energy efficiency potential in Norway that can be triggered by active use of instruments. The proposals we are promoting are a small step towards increasing the use of alternative energy. Extending the exemption from the payment of VAT on energy supplied from alternative energy sources to the whole country and exempting VAT on goods and services in connection with the installation of alternative energy heating systems in dwellings will, in our view, be measures that can stimulate the increased use of alternative energy. The Norwegian Bioenergy Association believes that there is a potential to replace approx. 13 TWh electric current used for domestic heating and provision of bioenergy services. In addition, approximately 13 TWh of oil may be replaced by bioenergy. The total Norwegian production from bioenergy is today about 16 TWh, while in Sweden there is about 100 TWh. And it is interesting to note that Sweden has used far more powerful instruments than Norway to increase the use of bioenergy. There were VAT exemptions and various support schemes aimed at suppliers of bioenergy, households and other user groups. Finland is currently exempt from VAT on investments and fuels in bioenergy plants and on district heating. As shown in the document, bioenergy generates revenues for the country. In Sweden, they calculated that each new TWh produced from bioenergy is worth about 65 million. kr in the income of the country, in the form of taxes on labour income, employers' contributions and saved unemployment benefits. The Centre Party has for several years proposed to increase the allocation of the Energy Fund, managed by Enova. The result of the last year’s budgetary procedure led to the removal of government budget appropriations and the full financing of the Energy Fund by electricity users. As proposers, we note that the majority believe that the VAT system is not a suitable instrument for increasing the use of alternative energy in households. But the Central Party believes it's a step on the way, and I'm promoting this proposal that we have with the Coastal Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1081	The representative, Rune J. Skjellera, has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1099	Today we have a Document No. 8 proposals from the Progress Party, proposing a maximum duty-free import limit of NOK 1 000 and periodic adjustment of the amount. The majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. The different groups that make up the majority have different reasons. Today it is that if a buyer buys a product from abroad for up to NOK 200, he will not pay VAT. If you buy a product from abroad for more than 200 kroner, you will have to pay VAT. So this limit is going to be raised to $1,000. Why does one have such a limit, and why exactly 200 kroner? When you look at some of the arguments of those who want to raise this limit, you get the impression that it's kind of parallel to the tax-free system you have on the Danish boat, at airports and the like. One might get the impression that it's a forgotten thing that the limit has not been raised in recent years. It is to attack the matter at the wrong end. The thing is that when a buyer buys a product from another country, he gets it free of charge from this country. When the goods then arrive in Norway, they are charged Norwegian VAT. Thus, theoretically, all goods purchased abroad should have been subject to VAT. This was also the case between March 1999 and March 2001. But for practical reasons, one has found it useful to exempt the cheapest goods. This is also reflected in the letter of the Minister of Finance of 10 March 2005. On the other hand, shops that buy their goods from abroad have to add 25 pst. VAT, while Norwegian consumers can escape if the goods have a value of less than NOK 200. A Norwegian record store must therefore sell its CDs or DVDs with 25 pst. VAT, while a foreign business can sell to a Norwegian consumer without adding 25 pst. VAT. There is a distortion of competition in the disfavor of Norwegian businesses. With a limit of SEK 200, there is a distortion of competition that is acceptable. However, I am concerned that Norwegian dealers must have as much equal framework conditions as possible in relation to competitors abroad. Therefore, I consider the proposal to extend this limit to NOK 1000 as clearly distorting competition in the disfavor of Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs. That the Progress Party proposes this is one thing. It actually surprises me a lot more that this does not worry SV and the Workers' Party. Although they do not vote in favour of the proposal today, they are very much opening up to do so in the context of the revised state budget. With today's Internet technology, the potential of this distortion of competition is indeed quite high. The Internet provides increased choice of goods, more operators and thus more competition, which is in itself good for the consumer. I also have no objection that Norwegian businesses will have competition, if it does so on equal terms. But this is going to be some kind of inverse protectionism. One prevents the country's own shops from competing on equal terms with foreign shops. With a limit of $200, we can live with it. Raise this limit to e.g. 1000 kroner, as suggested by several, is the potential of this trade. Why should one in Egersund, in Förde or in Hammerfest order their goods in Oslo, when one can get them cheaper in Gothenburg or in Hamburg? As stated in the letter from the Minister of Finance of 10 March, the potential for an increase in the amount of the limit will be quite high: ‘CDs and DVD-ROMs and games are among the typical products currently traded via the Internet. But other goods, such as contact lenses, are increasingly being sold in this way. An increase in the value limit will also make it necessary to trade a number of new goods over the Internet than is currently possible, for example electronic articles, clothes, etc. Can be purchased 25 pst. cheaper from a provider in Copenhagen than from a provider located in Norway, the choice for the consumer will be quite obvious.’ All countries with a VAT system have a system of border procedures for cross-border trade. The EU has its own system to ensure that VAT is taxed either in the country of dispatch or in the country of purchase. On the other hand, this is not part of the EEA Agreement, and that is why we need to have our own system. Another thing is customs procedures. Recent changes have been made here, for the benefit of the consumer, among others. with the possibility of customs clearance via the Internet. The main point is that Norwegian VAT is payable on the purchase of goods from abroad, because they will otherwise be sold free of charge. We cannot discriminate against our own businesses through the VAT system. It is not fair and proportionate to Norwegian establishments. It is also not fair and reasonable to those who are at risk of losing their job. I would therefore recommend to the majority that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1132	All consignments of goods with a value exceeding 200 kr must be customs dutyed on importation. If the value is over NOK 200, the value of the goods is not the value of the goods, but the value of the customs value, which is the value of the goods plus the value of the goods. The vast majority of goods imported by private individuals are free of customs duties, so in practice VAT is the issue. The authorities have not been able to establish a system that imposes VAT without at the same time imposing on the consumer a significant additional cost in the form of a fee on the Post. The fee is a total of 155 kroner if the post office charges the customs duties in full, and 72 kroner if the consumer himself charges the customs duties. This is a complex and costly system for consumers. The original idea was to establish a system that allowed private imports of goods on a small scale without too much bureaucracy. In 1975, the Stortinget estimated NOK 200 as a reasonable limit for such a scheme. So this limit has been still for 30 years, while the money value has dropped to about 30 years. one fifth during the same period. In 1975 an assessment was made of what was a reasonable amount of free money, hopefully taking into account both consumers and the business community in this assessment. Now the real value of the free amount has dropped to one-fifth without any real reassessment. It is clear that consumers’ interests have suffered as a result of this development. The Party therefore considers that it is time for a new assessment to be carried out, in which the different interests are assessed in a balanced manner. The proposal for a limit of SEK 1000 is a price adjustment of the 1975 limit, and should be a good starting point if a consumer wants to be cared for. I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1143	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1146	Let me first say that, of course, I share the rapporteur's view that if this amount had become as large as you can get the impression when you hear the case rapporteur, it would have been dramatic, but that is not the situation. It is necessary to try to find an appropriate way of balancing the different considerations between something similar to competition and what is appropriate for consumers. We want this limit of $200 to be increased. How much, we haven't taken a decision. We have also not taken a decision when this should happen. We believe that this should be done in an ordinary budgetary procedure. We want to get back to that. But we see good arguments to raise this limit of NOK 200, which has now stood for 30 years, and the money value has fallen throughout the period. What speaks in the opposite direction, of course, is that it has become easier, through the Internet and other new media, to obtain products and thus operate with private imports. This is a balance. We choose to be in the majority. We think that the majority has the right attitude. We reserve the following: we want to get back to how much the limit is to be raised, and when it is to be done, but it should be done in an ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1155	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1168	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Siri Hall Arnøy from 12 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The vara representative, Christian Holm, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1187	Christian Holm is present and will take the seat. Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1199	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase support for independent schools in basic education from 85 p.m. to 100 pst. of normal operating expenditure for all public schools starting from the State budget for 2006, and including in the budget a financing system which also ensures full public financing of publicly recognised education and training offers in the basic education and training which are not operated by public authorities.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case with proposals for the aggregation of training laws and leave to provide for a common law for all pupils in basic education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1236	During the debate, the representative Jan Simonsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the representative Ursula Evje and himself. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so that the current CRL subject is removed and replaced by a purely confederational Christian subject with freedom of duty and a neutral religious and life philosophy with a high emphasis on Christian education and without exemption.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1260	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1274	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1288	During the debate, Rune J. Skjellaaen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to amend the laws, regulations and administrative provisions so that: 1st@item: inlistbox The exemption from the payment of VAT on energy supplied from alternative energy sources is extended to the whole country.2. The payment of VAT on goods and services related to the installation of alternative energy heaters in dwellings shall be exempted.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1323	During the debate, Mr Monsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a proposal for an upper limit on duty-free imports of NOK 1000, as well as a periodical adjustment of the amount.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12.ana.ud487e1352	There is no record.
