ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e29	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Pål Kårbø, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Yngve Rahm, applied for leave from 10 February to 15 February to take part in the official opening of the Norwegian Research Station in Queen Maud Land in Antarctica, following an invitation. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Inger Stokstad, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e55	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings on Wednesday and Thursday. The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make three private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e62	I have the pleasure of delivering three private suggestions: A proposal to allow the sale of wine and starch in shops throughout the opening hours of shops, a proposal for stricter criminal reactions and a proposal to introduce a confederation-bound Christian profession in primary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e69	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e72	On behalf of Lodve Solholm, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to introduce a broadband definition in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e100	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Councillor Kristin Clamet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask the main questions, are asked to rise. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e116	I have a question for the Prime Minister. In the Workers' Party, we fully agree with what is in the Christian People's Party's programme for the current ageing period. It says: ‘Private schools based on life views or alternative pedagogics are a valuable complement to public schools.’ It goes on to say, ‘KrF will continue today’s private school law.’ That is the law we had before 2001. The problem is that the Christian People's Party has now turned around. The Christian People's Party has now gone away from the old law, and instead has opened up to a fresco of private schools. It will easily undermine public schools, help make the common public school worse, reduce the number of lines and end schools. In particular, many schools and lines on the outskirts are exposed. It is not just the Workers' Party that is concerned about this development. Also very many local politicians from the Christian People's Party in many states are now warning. Last we saw it in the VG yesterday, where the head of the education committee in Rogaland, Ellen Solheim, of the Christian People's Party, says that this development undermines the common school, and strongly warns against the privatisation of the school. Does the Prime Minister agree with the local politicians of the Christian People's Party in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e136	It was very pleasant and almost touching to hear that the representative Stoltenberg now fully agreed with the Christian People's Party in the free school policy – the Workers' Party, who voted against the previous private school law and therefore completely disagreed with the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, who voted in favour of a lower budget for fresh schools year after year, and who would have made it difficult to maintain the free schools the Christian People's Party had fought for, yes, which would have actually made it possible for only students from rich families to go there. I don't understand that this is good social-democratic policy. If the Workers' Party fully agrees, as Stoltenberg stressed, with the Christian People's Party – then there are those who have turned around, it must be the Workers' Party. But this is just one of several reverse operations we hear today, and there are up to several of them that are joyous, including this one. I want to say that the Workers' Party has come to terms with the post-school policy. When the government found it necessary to revise the law on high school, as we have otherwise announced in the Sem Declaration, it was because the old law, which had good principles, gradually became a little difficult to practice – it has not least been recognised by the Workers' Party itself – among other things. because there are some schools in which it is difficult to define whether or not they represent an alternative pedagogical system, inter alia. because the public itself conducts a lot of experimental education in their schools. That is why the law was revised. We believe the one who's now here is better and adapted to today's situation. But in a few years, the Labour Party will certainly say that they also fully agree with the private school law we now have, as they have now turned around. We also agree that there should be no release of fresh oils. I don't think so either. It's a very small percentage of Norwegian students going to private schools. In the case of private schools, the municipalities, respectively the county council in the case of secondary schools, shall be heard. Those views shall be weighted in the final decision. If a county municipality is able to demonstrate long-term negative effects of the establishment of a private secondary school, it must be able to make a decisive contribution to the issue of recognition. We don't have any faith in a haircut. We agree with what our county representative in Rogaland said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e145	First of all, a little bit of history writing: the Labour Party has always been a supporter of having a private supplement to the public school, such as: Montessori schools and some religious schools. We actually had that in Norway when the Workers' Party had a clean majority on the Stortinget. So that's nothing new. There has been a discussion about which schools are to be approved, and there has been a discussion about funding arrangements, but there is nothing in the Christian People's Party programme. What's in the Christian People's Party program is that you want to keep today's private school law, that is. the law in force before 2001. State Council Electiond Reply City Haugland argued in several press releases before the election against the legislative change the Government has now proposed, and for which the Right was for, but which the Christian People's Party opposed. The reason for this is precisely what the Christian People's Party's local politicians warn against, namely that the private investors, the commercial players, will be interested in investing in the cheapest lines, where it is the largest student base. It will weaken the basis for maintaining narrower offers, more expensive lines, not least in many outings. Therefore, there is disagreement between the Government and the Christian People's Party's local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e152	It is interesting to hear that the Workers' Party has always been a member of religious schools and educational alternative schools. Reading a story, you see it's not true. The Labour Party tried, if we go back a few years, to strangle many religious schools. Continued kutter The working party in the allocation to private schools, which makes it more expensive to go there. There will be children from wealthy homes who can walk there. Children from their homes with poorer finances will have greater problems. I can't believe this can be a policy of equalization at all – making schools for the children of the rich. But that is the consequences of the Labour Party's policy. Few students in Norway attend private schools, 1.9 pst. by primary school students, 4-5 pst. by secondary school students. I don't believe in any major explosion in these numbers. Otherwise, when Stoltenberg uses the term ‘commercial actors’, I have to state that under the new law, there is no possibility of taking dividends from private schools. Thus, commercial private schooling is not to be conducted in Norway. It's forbidden.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e161	There will be follow-up questions – Vidar Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e164	I just have to say that the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister are driven into a scheme of extensive privatisation of the public schools. Norwegian school becomes a marketplace. According to the World Gang, leaders in the Swedish private school chain John Bauer does not hide that a long-term goal is to make money in school. Is not the Prime Minister at all concerned about such motivation to start school and education for our children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e171	The conduct of commercial private school activities in Norway is not permitted under Norwegian law. What a representative of a private school enterprise says is their long-term goal, should be there, but it has nothing to do with government policy. Bjørnstad knows very well that the law prohibits commercial private school activities in Norway. It's the government's policy. I have no faith in any extensive privatisation of Norwegian school. Neither does the government want it. We want a strong public school, how many children can go, but we want it to be choices. We've had that. That's what we want. Had it been up to the Workers' Party, it would have been largely optional for children with parents with good finances. We think that is a bad social policy and a bad school policy. School money should be so low that children of parents with poorer finances can also go to such schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e179	The President allows four follow-up questions – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e182	In fact, the questioner, the representative of Stoltenberg, is committed to promoting a vision in which the state and politicians choose on behalf of their parents. I understood that the Government, with the support of the Advance Party, has been given legal changes that give parents greater choice. This is also the case – I think the Prime Minister can confirm this – that the experience of our neighbouring country, which has had such legislation for more than 10 years, is good. In fact, measurements now also indicate that both private and public schools are getting better at competition. But my main point is this: when we strengthen the parents' right and the ability to choose, we should also do it completely. Still, those who choose an independent school only get 85 pst. of what it costs to have a student in public school. Would you like to strengthen your parental rights, that you also get the money that belongs to the school place?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e191	The Government has no plans to amend the grant rules for fresh oils. It's true that Blackevik tells us that you get 85 pst. of the aid granted to the corresponding public school. We think that's right. There shall be an expressed desire and a willingness of – and a certain group behind – those who will establish a post-secondary school. And you might say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But that excess must not be as high as the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have in practice entered into, because then it will only be for children of wealthy parents. This is not the responsibility of the Cooperative Government, even though the SV and the Workers' Party are in practice responsible for it. It is absolutely right that an important ideological justification for our policies in this area is, of course, parental rights. Parents shall have the first right to choose the form of education and education of their children. The law makes it clear that there is a prohibition on taking dividends. This shall be monitored. A post-secondary school shall not be able to engage in any other activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e200	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e203	If the President allows that, I think I have to say that I think the Prime Minister is expressing a rather idyllic and naive view of what is actually happening in the wake of the so-called law of free school. For what is now available, 250 applications for post-secondary education — about 200 new private schools. 165 of the applications relate to secondary schools. If the Prime Minister’s rose-painting of this was to go home, almost a number of actors with idealistic aims are ready to move into the secondary school market. But that's not the truth. Various commercial companies are ready to throw themselves over high school, pick out the lines that are the cheapest, offer free PCs, free schoolbooks, because after all, there's a certain amount of school money going on here, and that's perfectly clear to be able to tailor an offer to the students that the public school should have gone into in order to get into. It's the public school that should have had PCs, that should have had free school books, that should have had follow-up of the individual student. My question to the Prime Minister is: if it is possible to make money in high school, is the government ready to close the gaps that may be when commercial actors throw themselves over high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e213	I hope Kristin Halvorsen has come to realize that the law prohibits dividends, i.e. profits, from operating private schools in Norway. It's an explicit ban on it. I don't know how many times I have to repeat it before the expression ‘commercial private schooling’ goes away. It's the opposition's terror propaganda about what states we're facing. In fact, there is also a ban, with some exceptions, on the operation of fresh schools other than open school activities. I don't think I have a naïve view of this. The existence of 250 applications does not mean that there will be 250 new fresh salts in Norway. The applications shall be examined and the municipalities and county councils shall have the right to comment and have the essential objections may also be given weight by the final decision. It is interesting that it looks like SV has now become a hot defender of the private school law we had until a short time ago, because it has been desperately fighting against the SV and the Workers' Party in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e222	Rune J. Skjälaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e225	I want to go back to the starting point, to the difference in the law of high school and the old law of private school. It is argued in the context of the parental leave law. The private school law grew up because parents should have an alternative when they could not, for reasons of persuasion, send their children to public school. That's why we got the private school law, which was then extended to include educational directions. I will challenge the Prime Minister and ask him: How far does he think the parental right should go? Does the Prime Minister really think that the parental right underpins the Law on Free Schooling, or is there any other reason why the Christian People's Party has supported the Law on Free Schooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e232	It is the parental right that underlies the Law on Free Schooling. Should it be a parental right, parents must have an opportunity to choose, and it must be economically affordable to send children to a boarding school. When we found that we wanted to revise the law on free school, and the Christian People's Party agreed – otherwise it was not the law that the Right in its time outlined, because they had a different sketch – it is also because it became very difficult to practice the criterion on educational alternatives, among other things. because there is a lot of alternative educational activities in public schools. The previous private school law was gradually difficult to deal with, even though the ideology behind it was very good. I've realized that the Center Party agrees with that, too. I hope that the Center Party will also be in charge of parental rights in educational matters and in kindergartens. That's what the Co-operation Administration is doing. Then we don't have to take care of ourselves so that we strangle private school appropriations, so that only rich parents can send their children there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e239	Rolf Rekvam – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e242	John Bauer is a commercial actor. There's no doubt about it. The same applies to knowledge schools in Sweden. These are commercial actors entering a market who want to create a market in the education system. So believing that they don't have a goal of taking dividends is pretty naive. There are different ways to make dividends. When they get here, of course, it's to make money in this market. But that's not what's my main question. What I want to challenge the Prime Minister was what was in the VG yesterday. Christian People's Party politicians in Rogaland and in Hordaland are clear that they do not want this. They don't want a development where John Bauer gets established, because it'll undermine the public education system. One will take out the public school students in general, and thus it will weaken the public school. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree with his party colleagues in Rogaland and in Hordaland that we cannot accept this, we cannot accept this? Can we count on the government to say no to John Bauer establishing himself in these states on the basis of the recordings we have received from Christian People's Party politicians in Rogaland and in Hordaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e252	I believe the representative, Mr Rikvam, is aware that I am not dealing with applications that have not yet been dealt with in the department. But, as I have explained, according to the law, county councils should be able to express themselves on such issues, and their views can be given emphasis, especially if they can demonstrate long-term adverse effects. Of course we will. If you read the interview in VG with our state politicians, to whom Reikvam is probably looking for, it was very nuanced. I don't have any problems with that at all. John Bauer may have a desire to make dividends, but it is illegal under Norwegian law. I don't think Rikvam thinks the department will accept illegalities. They have to comply with Norwegian law. They don't have the opportunity to make dividends. No matter what John Bauer may wish, it is prohibited under the law of high school. It will not be allowed. If the application would involve that, it will of course be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e259	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e264	I have a question for the Prime Minister. It is true that this and former governments have largely sacrificed the interests of consumers on the altar of agricultural cooperation. It is the producer-owned cooperative organisations that have been given a special advantage in the market by being the market regulator for both eggs, poultry, meat and dairy products. As a commodity regulator, as discussed in the previous questions, dividends on the commodity price can be collected on the commodities business and thus it is impossible for others to compete mainly in the processing industry. We have now seen Tine exploiting its market power in an unacceptable way. Will the Prime Minister change this policy, so that we have the same competitive situation, and that the interests of consumers are to be placed on high ground also within the food production and marketing system, in other words, that cooperative organisations are deprived of regulatory authority and regulatory power, and that, if they are to own processing activities, they must compete on equal terms with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e273	This government policy has led to increased competition in agricultural products. This is a reason for freedom of establishment today. In the case of milk, Tine still has a very dominant market share, but they have a real competitor. In the case of cheese, there is today clear competition, where Synnovene Finden is inside as a private actor. The same in the case of meat, where there is now a significant proportion of non-Valids that deliver. The same applies to eggs and chicken, where there are several major actors in addition to Prior. This shows that, in addition to the organisations of agricultural cooperation, there are now increasing numbers of other private actors, and this is precisely because the Government also wants to put consumer interests at the centre. This does not mean that it makes sense to completely discard the regulation we have today, because the option to today's system will be the creation of state regulatory institutions, which can be very resource-intensive and bureaucratic. What is the situation today is that the farmer has the right to sell his products. Agricultural cooperative organisations have an obligation to accept. This is to ensure delivery opportunities across the country and to ensure that we also use agricultural policy as part of maintaining farms throughout the country. I'm aware that Hagen might throw it overboard. I don't want to do that. But we will follow closely in these areas that we now mentioned, and ensure that competition becomes even more real. The formal monopolies have been phased out, and we must help to make competition more real.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e282	I thank you for your answer and note that it is right that there has become more competition, thanks to the government parties and the Progress Party, with the new Competition Act. It's going in the right direction, but in our opinion it's not far enough in this area. It is not the case, as the Prime Minister claims, that it needs to be resource-intensive and bureaucratic if the authorities take over the self-financing regulatory role of producer organisations today and Tine has shown that they abuse. Both Synnove Find, private slaughterhouses and private egg suppliers will be able to confirm that Tine has made the most difficult for the private, and some of it does not tolerate the light of day. We remember Nordås Gårdsmeieri a few years ago, which, thanks to the politicians of the other parties and Tine, was able to crack. It wouldn't have been that easy today. It's going in the right direction. But why is it not possible to ensure that the same competition rules apply in this area as in other areas? Will the Prime Minister go through this, taking greater account of consumers? I note that only Norway has such agricultural agreements that we are negotiating, and has this old-fashioned management system. Why can't we, like other countries, get freer relationships and put the consumer and choices into different products in the store shelves in the high-seat?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e287	The government has consumers’ interests in mind and priorities. That is also the reason why we have done so much about competition. With regard to the situation with Tine, we have a competition law, and those who may have acted contrary to it will, of course, have reactions, as explained by the Competition Act. It is the Competition Authority that is now going through, so I cannot go into it further. The Competition Authority must do its job. When we don't have the same competitive situation in agriculture as in some other sectors of Norwegian society, I think Carl I. Hagen knows very well why, namely, that we want to maintain a living agriculture and have living settlements in Norway. This is in the long run in the interests of Norwegian citizens and thus Norwegian consumers. We need to have a certain level of self-production of food in Norway. We don't want to force a centralization that we already have to fight against. It is therefore important to take care of schemes that also take account of these considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e296	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e299	Two state councils, Meyer and Sponheim, have been out criticising abuse of power in the dairy sector, but the government is doing very little in practice, even though the Storting has said that there should be equivalent competition on the milk processing side. The proof is Synnove Finden, who won a crushing victory in the district court recently, where it was struck clearly that they paid too much for the milk and participated in and paid for Tine's capital costs. Nevertheless, the Government anchors this judgment, and it means several years of uncertainty before we get a final judgment. So I have to ask the Prime Minister: does it contribute to increased competition when creating uncertainty and uncertainty for the Q-meieries and Synnoses Find in this way and beat the legs under them?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e304	We've got increased competition. We've got a new competition law, and it's going to work. The fact that there can also be legal proceedings out of this just shows that the law and the legal system work. The Ministry of Agriculture has had its reasons for an appeal against this judgment. I can't go into that more detail now. As far as the Tine case is concerned, there are serious accusations here. The government looks at them very seriously. But we have to let the right body deal with the matter, namely the Competition Authority, which in this case is supposed to handle the Competition Act, and I feel convinced that has happened. If something has been done wrong, whether it is from one company or another, it has to be broken down. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e313	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e316	We have the power, through generations, to build up a Norwegian agriculture, and we have production across the country despite quite considerable climatic differences and quite considerable differences in the ability to operate different forms of production. I am very pleased with the answer given by the Prime Minister to this question, and I support the Prime Minister in his view. I really just want a confirmation that the Prime Minister still believes that we are going to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, where farmers in different parts of the country have the opportunity to charge almost equal prices on their products, and that the market regulation that has helped us to have this system should be maintained and be a prerequisite for that to be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e324	As I said, we have increased competition in the marketing of agricultural products, and we have these main groupings: milk, cheese – or processed dairy products – meat, eggs and chicken. I have explained how one has competition in all these areas, and how one has the opportunity for free establishment. As far as market regulation is concerned, we do not now have plans to change them, because it is important to maintain the farmer's right to sell and the obligation of agricultural cooperation to accept them. If those arrows fall, I'm afraid that important parts of Norwegian agriculture may come out to drive. We want a living agriculture all over the country, but that doesn't mean it has to be the status quo. We will closely monitor the impact of competition in the various areas. I have to say that on the milk side, there is currently a really low level of competition, and that is the desire to increase it. Now it is a 97/3 pst. distribution, and the Minister of Agriculture has said that an 80/20 pst. distribution would be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e331	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e334	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. SV does not go to school at the first turn, so the Prime Minister has to find out about taking a new round on. I think it is a great paradox that, in connection with the 100th anniversary marking, there has been a large study of the position of the Nordics, among others. to community and privatisation. In the education sector, what Norwegian people want is very massive when it comes to nearly 80 pst. says that they want a stronger public school and a stronger public education, while 12 pst. they want to invest more in private solutions. What is now happening in the education sector is the opposite, as a significant increase in the privatisation of secondary schools, a little depending on how much the Government agrees, but not near any similar objectives for what should be the standard in public school. One of these actors who now wants to get into the education market is describing what they want to lure, and so it's free PCs, closer follow-up of each student, more contact with society around, free school books, and opportunities for travel abroad. That's a goal you should have for public school. When will the Government set this as a public school goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e343	With regard to this survey, which was carried out by the 100-year-old company, I have it here. As that question was formulated, I'm almost surprised that not 100 pst. black public. They were set up against each other quite – I would say – strikingly. The truth is, this government has invested a lot more in public than in private. Some have been very concerned that this government has prioritised tax relief at the expense of everything else. For every penny we've given in tax bills, we've increased public welfare schemes by two. So to the extent that we have given priority, this government has given priority to the public. As far as school is concerned, we believe that there should be choices based on parental rights, but we want a strong and good public school that makes most people see fit to send their children there. But there should be the possibility of alternatives. I guess it's not the prime minister's job to ask SV's leader in a spontaneous questioning session, but it might be interesting to know if SV has now come to where the Workers' Party has, that they are very happy with the previous private school law. It has fought against the SV and the Workers' Party. Has e.g. SV in Norway learned from EN in Denmark, which has a completely different, positive view of the opportunity to choose private schools? Otherwise I agree with the representative Halvorsen that several of the benefits for the students she mentioned, we should also have more of them in public school. It's our job to make sure that the appropriations there are so good that the public school is considered an alternative for most people. That's the government's goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e356	The Prime Minister is absolutely right. Here's the big guy's asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e359	I wonder if we're close to a little news and an election vow from the Prime Minister here. If it really is that this government will go to the choice that all high school students should have the possibility of a free PC, free schoolbooks, closer follow-up of each individual student and for the possibility of teaching in small groups, we are faced with a gigantic upgrading of the public school, which is impossible to implement if the Right's promises of new 23 billion DKK in tax credits are also to be fulfilled. Is it really so that the Prime Minister now promises that the goal you set for public high school in the next major period is free PCs for all students, closer follow-up, smaller groups and free school books, so I would like a clear answer now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e366	No, I didn't say that, and that...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e371	Oh, no?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e376	...I think Kristin Halvorsen would notice if she listened carefully. I said that several people wanted more of the goods she sketched, including in public school – and more of it. I have not promised, and can not here and now laws, free school books and free PCs to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e381	That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e386	But it's interesting that from last year to this year we've got increased teacher density in Norwegian school. We've increased the adult density in public school, and we've got more money per year. student. The government has presented a comprehensive school reform with a high level of competence for teachers, on which we are to invest hundreds of millions of dollars. So the government has proven that it rates at public school. Free schools get less money than public school. They only get 85 pst. of the public school, and in that it is also a priority of public school. In addition, it is important, if you are to invest more in public schools, that Norwegian economy continues to develop positively, and in that light SV must also learn to see tax issues. To the extent that it can contribute to growth and more money to the public, we can strengthen the school. It doesn't necessarily have to be the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e394	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e397	First of all, history. The Prime Minister repeats all the time that the Workers' Party voted against the previous private school law. That's not right. It was adopted in 1985. Mr Steen was the author of the case, and it was a unanimous big deal that voted in favour. I wonder, therefore, whether the Prime Minister can only answer whether the Labour Party voted in favour of or against the private school law in 1985. The second is that the problem with the release of the government is now adding up, is that it draws money, resources, out of the public high school. Then the quality is getting worse, the offer is getting worse. The public is left with the most expensive lines in the most difficult places in the country. Then there will also be less freedom of choice, because schools and lines are being laid down. That's exactly what's the problem, and the Prime Minister all day has really refused to answer. His local politicians are deeply concerned about that, because they see that if you now say yes to what you add to the new private school law, there will be a worse offer in the public general school. Then the differences increase, and we get lower quality in school. The working party wants the opposite – smaller differences and better quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e404	I know the story well when it comes to fresh oils. It is true that the Workers' Party came to a better course in 1985. But I know when the fight for private schools in Norway really came. Then it was actually my uncle who was the Council of State, and who proposed the law. The working party fought French against the principles, and it was the principles that were passed on in 1985. There's no doubt about it. Year after year, the Labour Party has proposed lower appropriations for fresh oils. That means it'll be more expensive to go there. So Stoltenberg wants a setup where there are children of parents who have a good economy who can send their children to fresh schools. Children of parents with poorer finances will not be able to afford it. That it's good social-democratic policy, I actually don't understand at all. It's going in for class distinctions at school. Nor is it right that we withdraw resources from public school, because what goes to private schools is less than what it would cost to have had students in public school. The truth is that one should first start thinking about economics, the state serves on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e415	What is truth is a philosophical and a religious question and not something to be addressed here. What we're talking about is the actual ratio. The facts are that county councils have less access to the route. This means that they cut out good and exciting educational offers in music, dance, drama, etc., which are relatively costly. That's the actual ratio. If that's the truth, I don't know, but at least that's the actual conditions. I want to follow up on this by taking out dividends and commercial actors. That we get commercial actors into the Norwegian education system is because they're going to get money out of this system. It has to be pretty obvious to everyone. There is no Florence Nightingale coming to Norway to pursue education. They have one goal, and it's getting a market and then picking up profits somehow. There's a lot of ways to take out profits. One does not have to take it out as dividends in capital. One can take it out as a higher salary, one can transfer between different companies, etc. It's the danger and what we fear, many of us who are anxious about these commercial actors. It is strange that the Prime Minister is not anxious about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e422	I have not said that we are not anxious, but I have said what is allowed, and what is forbidden, under Norwegian law. If someone starts to do commercial schooling in Norway, it is prohibited. Reikvam can be confident that the Education Directorate, which administers this law, will of course comply with Norwegian law. It is not allowed, and then you should not frighten with it. We have oversight to follow this. Someone would go into that gallery, for example. in the event of circumvention and, in substance, in any other way, it is clear that dividends will be reduced. This is not an opportunity to come to Norway and collect money from private schools. I can also tell you that even in the mid-1990s, the Workers' Party went in to stop Montessori schools in Norway, which they are now saying are so very happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e429	Kristin Halvorsen referred to studies conducted on public and private schools. But she forgot to say that there were leading questions in them. Very many people perceive that there is private funding that is held up for joint financing. It is fully possible to have Community funding, public payment, but nevertheless to have parental freedom of choice as to which provider of school services, health services, nursing home services or what it should be, thus combining the benefit of Community funding with the benefit of freedom of choice for each user. This will make it possible to benefit from competition between different providers, as the Prime Minister said earlier today. I'll be allowed to end with a question. When Jens Stoltenberg embraces the former Christian People's Party programme in this area, I get to embrace Göran Persson in Sweden, where social democracy has 100 pst. financing when there is no possibility to make dividends. If that is not the case, why can't parents worldwide be given full freedom of choice with exactly the same Community funding for their children's education, whether they choose one option or the other? Why should parents not have full freedom of choice, as is the case in social democracy in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e436	This can be an interesting election struggle when the Workers' Party embraces the Christian People's Party and Hagen embraces Göran Persson. Where the ideological dividing lines are back, it's not that easy to see. I'm really happy about this. I agree with Hagen that there was a leading question in the study Kristin Halvorsen referred to. That's why I almost thought it was nice that not 100 pst. answered yes, as she wished. The public is responsible for both the nursery sector, health sector, care sector and school sector. But this government believes that there should be certain choices, not least in terms of parental rights. I have no faith or fear that we will have a violent bloom of private schools undermining the public school system in Norway. The public school should be good. It's got to be strong. It should be so that most people want to go there, and they do. We are now strengthening public schools through the school reform. Our country politicians in a couple of Western states, to which others have referred, express a concern if there is to be a release. I have no faith in it. They have the opportunity to express themselves. A lack of offer or an unfairly expensive school structure may be grounds for refusing the approval of fresh schools. Of course, the directorate will manage that. When we haven't chosen to go up to 100 pst. coverage, as Carl I. Hagen's question was, it is because we believe that the real will to create an alternative must be expressed by the fact that it is also a certain self-help. It's a healthy principle. And then we're saying that this is really a wish that's behind it, and it's not just individuals, but there's more. That one then has a 15 p.m. balance, for my part, I don't think it's unreasonable. We've had that in Norwegian private school legislation every year. We think it's reasonable to keep doing that. It's not all things we're going to copy Sweden to, either whether it's Göran Persson who's in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e449	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e452	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. I want to focus further on the large population survey in connection with the celebration of Norway in 2005. So the investigation shows a massive belief in the community, in the countryside, in the districts and in culture. This is a very encouraging reading for the Centre Party, which will just have good public local welfare provision, offensive district policies and greater efforts for culture, sport and voluntary work. A large number of people, almost 4,000 asked, are with us. My question is: is it that the Prime Minister systematically wants to slow down this investigation, or is it something he wants to take inwards, who is thus leading a policy with less to the community, with more private solutions, whether we are talking about health, care or school, and who is also slowing down district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e459	Surveys have to be on your own, and you get to read the question and look at the answers. Then you should also look at things with a certain critical look. I would recommend that the representative Kleppa do that. As I said, I'm almost surprised that it wasn't 100 pst. who answered as Kleppa wanted, in this survey, as the questions were asked. Then it's directly wrong when Kleppa says that the Co-operation Administration is responsible for less to the community. The cooperation management has increased the appropriations allocated to the Community year after year. For every penny we've given in tax bills, we've given at least two dollars in increasing the welfare arrangements. Last year, we increased welfare schemes by just over 10 billion kroner — more to health, more to school, more to kindergartens, and more to care for. It's just going into the budget, and then Kleppa's history will be refuted. I recommend to those who hear and see this, to stick to the facts, to the budgets, and not to the misleading presentation that Kleppa has unfortunately given.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e466	Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister to comment that he actually has a Minister of Transport who is not exactly aware of strengthening the communications in the districts, that he has a municipal minister who benefits from every opportunity to doubt the smaller municipalities and the ones they offer, that local hospitals are still under pressure and are at risk of closure, and that he now has parental rights so far that many parents no longer have a choice. They have to choose a private school because it's not a public alternative, whether we're talking about the goal ball that's being closed, or the offer in the continuing school that's gone. That's the fact, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e472	I'm afraid that's not the facts, as Kleppa did. Road appropriations have increased, including in many districts. The allocations to hospitals have increased sharply since the adoption of the Cooperative Government. From the first quarter of 2002 to the second quarter of 2004, there has been a decrease in the average waiting time for treatment in public hospitals of more than 20 pst. So this is a welfare promise. Kleppa produces it as if we were tormenting the hospitals, when it is the true opposite that has happened. There has been a billion increase in appropriations. Waiting time has been reduced. I'm busy with the patients. Still not good enough. It's still too long, too long, too long, but it's reduced by over 20 pst. I think that Kleppa should rejoice, and also that new and better roads are still being built, both in the districts and in bottlenecks in central areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e477	The President allows three follow-up questions – first Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e480	I'm getting more and more amazed at what's going on with the Christian People's Party. Thus, a comprehensive study has now been carried out in connection with the 100-year marking, which shows that there is strong support in the Norwegian population for our welfare model and our Community solutions. The previous Bondevik government and the former Prime Minister Bondevik would have thrown themselves over this as the truly great opportunity for value mobilization – the Prime Minister who put down the Value Commission – while today's Prime Minister Bondevik is trying to defuse this clear desire from the Norwegian population that it is the community on which it is to be invested. He minimizes and sounds exactly like Per-Cristian Foss, Kristin Clemet or who else it might be that whispers some strings in his ear. What is going on with the Christian People's Party when the Prime Minister wants to point out that when questions are asked in a survey that you think Norway should focus more on a public education offer in the future, more on a private education offer, or do you have no idea about this, then there is a serious distortion of questions? It's not. The Prime Minister is expounding. He expounds the mobilisation it is in large parts of the Norwegian population for a community. The previous government with the Christian People's Party would see it as a support for its political project. Today, the Prime Minister expounds this. I think that is a very interesting political development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e487	Such rehearsed formulations, that one is more and more amazed at the Christian People's Party, are likely to hear more of it until the election. I must honestly admit that I am not taking so seriously. It's part of political tactics and games. I am very pleased with the support for community and welfare schemes. That's why the Co-operation Board is increasing it. Actually, it should be 100 pst. on such a question. We'll bet more in public school. We have put forward a school reform that means increasing bets in public schools. We've invested more than ever in kindergartens. We have invested more than ever in public hospitals. Wait time's coming down. This government is the first to present an action plan to combat poverty in Norway. We have greatly increased efforts towards poor developing countries. We've never had such a high budget to help the poor out in the world. I could, by the way, in a parentheses, sometimes call for the SV's international perspectives. They're almost always gone. This is a government for increased well-being and poverty reduction at home and abroad. I'm getting more and more amazed at Kristin Halvorsen, who doesn't see this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e494	Yes, the Prime Minister's wonder must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e497	I was greatly amazed at the list of lynchings that the Prime Minister now came with. I have to ask a question: what has the Prime Minister and the Government done with the cuts in the sick pay, in the day-to-day arrangements in a number of fields, cut the disability pay? Yes, why do we get an increase in the number of people who are reintroducing, on disability benefits, etc.? These groups are systematically referred to as vulnerable groups, and then it appears that there has been an increase in the welfare of these groups. These people have not been given any increase in well-being. They're getting more and more out of the way, and they're coming from more than one area. I can also mention the system of ownership of the Prime Minister. Isn't this building a gap between poor and rich? Is this to lift in flocks?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e502	I realize that this spontaneous question hour ends in a mutual amazement towards each other, and there are probably good reasons for that in these times. We'll probably get more of that forward to the election. With regard to the issues that Nordtun has now gone over quite quickly, he knows that there is one main line that has been behind the regulatory adjustments that have taken place in some of these areas, namely the working line – the working line, which I thought was the Workers' Party's line as well. We want to stimulate people to get back to work as fast as possible, if not full-time, so at least as much as possible. That is the main reason for the adjustments made. If there is a cause for poverty, long-term unemployment. Combating unemployment in general and long-term unemployment in particular is a major concern of this government. Now employment is increasing. Now the free time starts to go down a little bit again. We have had to take some unpopular roofs in a couple of budgets to get the economy straight, because the arrows had begun to point in the wrong direction when the Workers' Party left responsibility for the Cooperation Government. Now they point in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e509	There is no doubt that there are many ways to describe reality. I want to go back to the main question. This survey shows that as much as 76 pst. the population believes that more efforts should be made to maintain the settlement in District Norway. As Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa pointed out quite correctly: the government has in a number of areas changed the policy, which makes it go in a different direction. Let me mention two-three areas. All the materialities of the tax burden resulting from the removal of tax on dividends have benefited taxpayers in Oslo and Akershus. It is true that transport appropriations have increased throughout the country, but distributionally they have increased significantly more in key areas than they have done in District Norway. The share of the increase has mainly benefited from central strokes. The government has implemented the conversion of the income system to the municipalities in a way that causes the small municipalities and district municipalities to lose, while growth municipalities and municipalities in central districts receive a greater share of the total pot. If this is not a deliberate policy of centralization, then I have to say that the Prime Minister and I have a very different view of what is reality. Does the Prime Minister want such a development, or will he take it seriously and look at how to use a larger share to ensure the settlement in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e518	I think Enoxsen knows that, of course, the Cooperation Government does not stand for any conscious centralization policy. In fact, countering centralization is important for this government, as it was for the central government, in which Enoxen was involved. He knows just as well as I do that these are powerful forces as it is not easy to turn around. There has been some centralization both in times when the Central Party has been in government, and when the Center Party has been in opposition, and so has it been for the rest of us. What is important for the districts is, of course, the creation of new jobs, and now optimism is coming back. We have pursued an economic policy, and we are pursuing an instrument policy in which we have coordinated the instrument, Innovation Norway, which is what is now beginning to happen. I've traveled, for example. on the west coast, where I myself come from and am well known. Optimism is coming back, exports are increasing, contracts to shipyards are coming back, things are happening. This is crucial for Norwegian districts. Of course, the co-operation administration is an active district policy rather than a centralisation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e523	Kristin Halvorsen put forward this study in his supplementary question, which was the main starting point, and the Prime Minister points out that it is almost surprising that there was no 100 pst. opening up public funding, because people see it as a matter of finance, public funding or private funding. But it's also a value question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees that freedom of choice for people is, in fact, also a matter of value, that it is a self-value for people to make their own choices, because we humans are different, and we have different interests and different desires. The right to choose for yourself is a matter of self-esteem and a question of value. Now the socialist guardians are taking great action on human freedom of choice in a number of areas in Norway. They want to deprive individuals of the right to choose, whether they are parents in kindergartens or schools, elderly people in need of care, sick people in need of medical treatment. In terms of territory, socialist reformers go in to deprive people of the right to choose to transfer it to politicians. Does the Prime Minister agree that freedom of choice for individuals is an independent self-esteem?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e528	Yes, freedom of choice is an important value, and I will add to it: especially in what has to do with family issues and education and care for children. Therefore, it is important in relation to kindergarten and cash support. It is important in the kindergarten sector. It is important in the school sector. It is true that this government option to be built up wants to reduce freedom of choice. The most striking example is the care of your own children under the age of three. Now it is just as manufactured as that the Workers' Party has saved the cash support. But that's completely wrong. They have said that it should be removed, but probably then from 2008, and that is just a bit out in the next growing-up period. So this choice is going to be a choice for young children's parents to have the right to choose the form of care for their children, whether it's going to be in a kindergarten that has a lot of public support, and that's going to get even more public support, or it's going to have cash support. It shall be decided upon at the time of selection for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e536	The last main question is from Vidar Bjørnstad. The President sees from the clock that we are now going into the time of the ordinary questioning. Vidar Bjørnstad gets to ask his main question and of course also an additional question. There will be no follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e539	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. The working party will invest in the public general school, both in terms of content and more money. Last week we had a meeting with parental representatives from Halmstad school in Eastfold. They can inform about the consequences of cuts that will happen this year: fewer teachers will have the same number of students, there will be contact teachers responsible for up to 28 students instead of 18, there will be full stops in the use of temporary workers in case of sick leave, and the library offer will be halved. This is not an exceptional case. Resources are not everything, but does the Prime Minister believe that such relationships will provide a better school? What does the Prime Minister think is the reason why we have such a development in this government's period?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e548	Individual cases are difficult for me to go into. We know that many municipalities are struggling with a difficult economy – some more than others – and that is why the local authorities are very different. However, when it comes to rural areas, the estimated group size in primary schools is very stable, so that the overall picture is not correct. Of course, the Minister of Education could go into this in more detail, if the Stortinget had been so kind as also to ask her questions, since she has spent a lot of time preparing herself. But the Prime Minister should not fail to answer. No one shall suspect him to depart, for he has also prepared himself. As a result of the school reform, public school resource access is now increased. Group sizes are relatively stable, and last year the teacher density has actually increased. Otherwise, the Clemet Council is still at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e559	I hear the Prime Minister will convince me that reality is not the way people in school are informing us about. The Labour Party believes that we need more teachers to avoid growing groups and poorer follow-up of individual students. In an interview in Dagsrevyen in December, the Prime Minister said that ‘increased teacher density is desirable’. I believe that is encouraging and new tones from the Government. When the Prime Minister uses the word "want," I see it as more than a wishful thinking, I see it as a goal. This is likely to be true for the future, as long as the opinion fell in December. I just want to hear from the Prime Minister about this desire for 2005 and what the Government might do to achieve that objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e566	It's a fact, as far as I know, that the teacher's density has increased in the last year. So it showed that it was not just wishful thinking from the Prime Minister, it is a reality. Of course, it's desirable that it can continue as well. In the case of group sizes in primary schools, they have remained fairly stable over the last five years, between 13,1 and 13,7. Then there may be some schools and individual municipalities that have a different development. I don't deny that. It is linked to a fairly variable municipal economy from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e573	Then the president hopes that Kristin Clement has not prepared himself in vain. The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e581	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Siri Hall Arnøy to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Questions 3 and 4 from Bendiks H. Arnesen and Aud Gaundal, respectively, to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from the representative Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance, who will direct him. However, the question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e607	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e614	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs the following questions: ‘The aim of the wine monopoly is ‘to provide its customers with access to a wide range of goods’. Nevertheless, in 2003 Arcus AS and Vectura AS have a combined market share of 23,7 pst. In some sales there are reportedly striking numbers of marks delivered by Arcus and Vectura via the order and additional selection. Can the Council of State guarantee that there is no discrimination on the part of the various stores of the Vinmonopolet against other suppliers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e623	It is explicitly stated in the Alcohol Act that the monopoly of wine should not discriminate between suppliers and products. This principle is elaborated by detailed rules laid down in the Code on the Purchasing Activities of the Vinmonopole. In order to ensure fair market access for all suppliers, several alternative channels are offered in accordance with the Code into the range of the Vinmonopolet. A separate independent name has also been established to ensure that the Vinmonopole treats operators, suppliers and products in a non-discriminatory manner. It follows from St.prp. No 1 for 2004–05, mentioning three complaints in 2003, one of which was taken into account. I have also been informed that in 2004 the name of the company dealt with seven complaints, two of which were taken into account. Immediately after the abolition of the exclusive rights of the old Vinmonopoly, which also applied to imports and wholesale sales, the newly established companies Arcus and Vectura had, for natural reasons, a market share of close to 100 pst. Since 1996, the market shares of companies have been reduced year after year, as the share of new wholesalers in the Norwegian market has increased and their market position has been strengthened. In relation to Vectura, it is important to note that this company also acts as a wholesaler and distributor for 13 agents who do not have their own wholesale authorisation and agreements with the Vinmonopolet. This implies that Vectura’s turnover also includes all sales relating to the portfolio of these agents. In particular, the representative Simonsen addresses the issue of the proportion of companies in the additional local committees that the shops are obliged to have in accordance with the procurement regulation. The purpose of the Supplementary Committee is to meet local demand, which may vary considerably from place to place. In this sample, products from the order selection can also be stored, which is a sample open to any supplier who wants his goods represented. The total market share of the sales of the additional and order collections is now around approx. 16 pst. Market shares may vary considerably from one store to another. Arcus and Vectura have the largest share in smaller shops. On the basis of the information I have obtained from the Vinmonopolet, which I have explained here, I find no evidence that there is discrimination between Arcus and Vectura in relation to other suppliers. I suppose there's such a question the representative Simonsen means to travel when he says: ‘In some sales there are reportedly striking numbers of marks supplied by Arcus and Vectura via the order and additional selection.’ There is a comprehensive code of conduct on the procurement of the monopoly of wine to ensure that there is no discrimination. Not least, I would like to point out that there has been an independent mention that gives all actors the opportunity to try their cases, if they think that there is any basis for discrimination. As the representative Simonsen will be familiar with, the board of the Vinmonopolet now examines a case where there is a suspicion of an undesirable influence of a wine and spirits importer on employees of the Vinmonopolet. I feel confident that the board of directors will also work on the question of whether there can be such an impact from other suppliers, or other issues that should be examined. I will follow these matters up, and I would also like to make sure that the board takes the necessary steps to ensure that the undesirable influence that could lead to discrimination does not take place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e648	I just have a brief comment: The fact that there is now concern among the smaller suppliers shall not be put under the chair. But what the Council of State said at the very end of his speech, that he would follow up on this in a proper way, really does that there is no need for any additional questions. I assume that his answer is correct, that this will be followed up, and that there are committees here on the Storting, not least the control committee, which will follow up if you are not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e655	The additional comment from the applicant does not cause any further comment from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e683	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e690	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘Nepal is one of our cooperating countries. The king of Nepal has recently kicked the government and declared a state of emergency. The development of democracy is at risk. Norway contributes with assistance to Nepal, including: for school programmes. How can Norway, as a development actor, contribute to influencing the development of a democratic and peaceful direction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e699	On 1 February Nepal's king Gyanendra briefed the population that he had appointed Prime Minister Deuba and his coalition government. The King's reason was that the government had not been able to carry out its tasks of initiating a peace process and holding elections. The King stated that he would remain in power for three years, until the democratic institutions can be restored. It's declared state of emergency. Media is under strict control. Central politicians are under house arrest, and human rights activists have taken cover. The security forces stop approaching for demonstrations immediately, with the exception of the King’s support demonstrations. The king has appointed a new government, which he himself will lead. Norway will greatly regret the measures taken by the King. The measures are a serious setback for democracy in the country, ignoring its legally elected authorities. We have joined the EU's opinion with criticism of the King's intervention. Concern about the situation is also expressed during bilateral meetings of our ambassador with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and with the Minister for Finance on 7 February this year. Norway supports a multi-party democracy and constitutional monarchy, and on several occasions has expressed serious concern about the restriction of human rights. Together with other donor countries and the international community, we have actively worked to contribute to the normalisation of the political situation in Nepal. Development cooperation between Norway and Nepal includes governance and human rights, basic education and energy and peace-building measures. In total, this amounts to 143 million. kr in 2003. In recent years, Norway has increasingly turned development cooperation with Nepal against actions that support good governance, the fight against corruption, better public finance management and greater respect for human rights. Norway, together with other donors, also supports Nepal's initial training programme. All Norwegian assistance to Nepal is aimed at or takes into account the conflict in the country. On 4 February of this year, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights sent a strongly critical letter to the king, referring to the conversation they had a short time ago in Kathmandu. The letter provides a good basis for the local follow-up of human rights issues, which are perceived as the most acute at the moment. A joint donor country’s opinion is now being worked on. Together with other donor countries, Norway worked actively against the Nepalese king in 2004 to contribute to the re-establishment of the country’s government. We are now in close contact with other donor countries and are constantly considering what can be done. It aims at a meeting with other donor countries on this in the near future. From the Norwegian side, we will continue the close contacts with other donor countries to assess the consequences of the king's takeover of power on development cooperation, as part of the efforts to resolve the current situation. In any case, it is clear that unilateral Norwegian measures will have little or no effect. At the same time, it is necessary to continue our humanitarian aid in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e718	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that what is now happening is a setback for democracy in this beautiful country, Nepal. But I am glad that Norway will continue to support it. It is needed in one of the poorest countries in the world. What I also know is that there has been a fragile democracy in the country for a long time. That Norwegian assistance now takes account of this conflict and wants to have a meeting with other donor countries, I think is very nice. I would like to ask the Council of State how she is now assessing the possibilities of coordinating precisely a common standard from donor countries, so that this can be an impact on the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e729	It is precisely the goal of all these donor countries consultations that we are now doing in Kathmandu, but that will also take place in a separate meeting. These consultations are precisely aimed at creating a common position on the part of the international donor countries, both in terms of how we can influence the critical situation in the country and in terms of the impact this should have on development cooperation in the various donor countries. Both of these conditions will be discussed, and it is desirable that we have a common approach from all the donor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e734	Just this I think is very important. After three years of living in the country myself, I know how important schools are, and we are very much in relation to school programmes. I now read the papers and hear that schools are being closed, for example. What I would like to ask the Council of State is: how then does Norwegian assistance to those who really do, also outside Kathmandu? We know that the Maoist guerrilla is there, and we know that the king now has unique power in the country. How does this affect schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e739	Our basic training assistance is among the things that have come out best in evaluating cooperation with Nepal. We have received good results from cooperation, both institutionally with the department and also from providing schooling for the poor in the country, both girls and boys. This program is currently running. But of course, as part of the whole assessment of development cooperation, we should also look at the possible consequences of this in relation to this programme. When it comes to school closure, I don't know any concrete examples. So I don't know the history, but I'm going to assume that there's a significant closure of schools in the areas of conflict, where the Maoist guerrilla lies, and where there are security problems. There is no good answer to what you can do in such a situation. When there's war, it's hard to run schools. These are aspects that we also need to take into account when we look at the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e750	My question is like this: ‘A comprehensive final report on the evaluation of Manifesto against bullying was presented in December 2004. On 23 September 2002, the Prime Minister, together with the Minister of Education, promised that in two years' time, i.e. in 2004, it would be a zero incidence of bullying and plagiarism in Norwegian school. A broad alliance stood behind Manifesto against bullying. The evaluation is now available. Increases in the incidence of bullying in schools have been halted, but bullying is still widespread. How will the Council of State follow up the report in the fight against bullying in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e759	Rogaland research presented the final report on the evaluation of Manifesto against bullying in 2002-2004 in December 2004. The researchers concluded that the manifesto work against bullying seems to have guided development in a positive direction. The researchers further conclude that the manifesto has led to an increased awareness of the issue of bullying and that a number of local measures have been taken to follow up the manifesto. The evaluation of Manifesto against bullying has been two-fold. Some have taken into account the presence of bullying, while the other has looked at the realization of the Manifesto itself against bullying and various measures taken to counter bullying. Bullying is not something that occurs in school alone, and the work for zero tolerance against bullying has therefore also been directed towards, among other things. kindergarten and recreational environment. The evaluation shows that parents have become more involved in local cooperation and in the development of a better social environment for children and young people in general. All primary schools have been invited to participate in the Olweus programme against bullying and anti-social behaviour at school or in the ZERO Behavioral Research Centre. A total of over 800 schools have used one of these programmes. Evaluation shows that the programmes are effective and reduce the incidence of bullying in schools that use them systematically. This is positive. With regard to the presence of bullying, new measurements show that the extent of bullying has been reduced, especially among boys. However, it is true, as Mr Sortevik points out, that there is still too much bullying in school. The research carried out by Rogaland shows that approximately 5 pst. by pupils in primary school, c. 4-5 pst. by pupils in the youth and approx. 3 pst. by high school students, bullying weekly or more frequently. Of course, I am not satisfied with this, and I therefore want to continue the work that has been carried out during the manifest period. Together with the other manifesto parties, we have discussed how best to continue the work against bullying, and the evaluation of Rogaland's research has been an important contribution in this way. Several measures will be pursued and new measures will be put in place: The work on bullying will continue, and all the manifesto parties are set to participate.Schools will continue to be offered participation in programmes that have documented the impact on bullying.The continuation of local anchoring of the manifesto in municipalities and schools will be pursued, and schools will continue to be challenged to work on this theme.An international network on violence and bullying in school under the auspices of the OECD is under establishment. Norway will be the coordinator of this network. Efforts to combat bullying must be seen in the context of the long-term and holistic work of a good, safe and inclusive learning and growth environment for children and young people, including prevention of anxiety and school discipline problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e789	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Firstly, it is gratifying that we have received an evaluation as quickly as possible after a two-year programme. Secondly, it is gratifying to show good trends in this evaluation, but it is still a major problem of bullying in Norwegian school. Rogaland's research, which has produced the report, says among other things: att ‘schools and teachers act fairly protectively in relation to the systems, practices and measures they have had long before the Manifesto in its work against bullying. Among teachers, there was also an expressed opinion that bullying in school is something that is always going to be." Does the Council of State think that such attitudes from teachers to bullying in school are acceptable? Will this be addressed in the context of the continuation of the manifest? And will it also be addressed in the context of empowerment for teachers, which is now being widely and extensively invested in, so that something can be done with allegedly proven attitudes from teachers to the bullying problem, as this quote puts forward? I hope the Council of State will confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e803	I'm going to have a meeting with the manifesto parties next week, and I think that might be reason to go both through the evaluation of what we've done, look at further measures, and also look at possible extensions of work to perhaps also include more teachers and the relationship between teachers, between teacher and student, both ways. It is also important and correct, as the representative pointed out, that this is essential in teacher training and in relation to skills enhancement, because this has to do with the professional role of teachers, namely the teacher as a leader and as a clear and authoritative adult. So this with attitudes I think absolutely should be included – that is something that we should address. I think there's a lot of good things to do, but I'm sure there's something to do with someone else, including with us adults who are related to the school in a way other than being a teacher – that's what I think is essential. It might seem kind of visionary to say that one should remove all of the bullying. I guess we haven't exactly expressed it this way. But I think it's very important that you have zero tolerance for bullying. And we're working across zero incidence, because we can't say that we accept some bullying. Every child who is bullied is one case too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e812	The bully goes in many directions. I quote again from Professor Olweus, who has also referred to: ‘There is currently little systematic knowledge of bullying in which teachers are involved, although many are familiar with teacher bullying as a phenomenon.’ As the Council of State said, Olweus has developed one of the anti- bullying programmes used — that is probably the only one that went through the evaluation. But this program doesn't focus on the students' bullying. How can teachers direct the work against bullying, if they themselves bully? What will the Council of State do to illuminate this and to combat teachers who bully students? My last supplementary question is: Where are the supervisory authorities in this context, if it is such that there are bastant and manifest attitudes of teachers who actually accept bullying, and where there are actually clear trends that indicate that teachers themselves actively bully?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e822	When we started this work, which seems to be a hard work, where we might not see the way forward to the point and the dot when we started, but where I think it has evolved very positively, there was agreement that we should first concentrate on bullying between students. It is correct, as the representative Sortevik points out, that there is also bullying between teacher and student, i.e. teachers can bully students, and students can bully and perpetrate violence, in fact, against teachers. Both of these things are serious, and I intend at the meeting we're going to have for the week, to bring up with the other parties whether it's appropriate that we also bring these themes into the work and highlight them in a better way. We don't have enough knowledge. We have to assume it's dark numbers. But it is serious, because it also concerns this topic, even though it is adults involved – or perhaps not least because it is adults involved. And the teachers also have, to take the opposite perspective, the right to a safe workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e833	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘There are three private secondary schools in Trondheim Centre, with a total of 1 300 student places. If these were to be approved, they would have dramatic consequences for the existing schools. The consequences will be school closures, delineated lines, less organized education, larger classes and the learning environment among students. The municipality and the municipality of Trondheim warn against establishing the private schools because of the the negative consequences. The law allows the Council of State to say no. Will she do it?"
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e842	The right to the recognition of an independent secondary school under the Law applies only to the extent that the establishment of the school will not have a significant negative impact on the host state. The opinions of the county councils are thus an important part of the decision-making basis in such cases. It will of course also apply in this case. In the preparatory work of the Law on Free Schooling, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘If, for example, the establishment of an independent secondary school means that some training offers can no longer be offered to the extent necessary, this could be considered a significant negative consequence.’ It is provided in the preparatory work of the law that the county council concerned must document any claims relating to significant adverse consequences. The Directorate of Education was established on 15 June 2004, and the Directorate was given the same day. the delegation of power to deal with applications for approval under the Law on Secondary Education. This implies that the Directorate of Education decides these matters at first instance, while the Ministry of Education and Research is the Board of Appeal. The applications referred to by the representative, Djupedal, are still under consideration in the Directorate for Education. The Directorate has informed that they have not yet received the opinion of the South Trondelag County. The Executive Board will examine the applications on the basis of which the Law of Education is required. Otherwise, I mention that the decision of the directorate can be appealed to the department both by the applicant and the county. I do not agree with all the premises put forward by the representative, Mr Djupedal, on his question, but this is at least an explanation of the formal procedure to be followed, and of the procedures and legislation in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e860	I thank you for your answer. These premises are, of course, what will be the consequences. I know the case handling very well, and this matter will sooner or later end up at the Council of State – I feel absolutely certain of that, no matter how it works. The consequence of setting up three private secondary schools in Trondheim Centre will be that there will be a release, which the Prime Minister warned against a moment ago, in the previous oral questioning process. There will be 1,300 out of 2,100 places on general vocational lines at the Trondheim Centre, which will mean the closure of schools and a degraded learning environment. When I deal with this already now, it's because I want the Council of State to give a clear signal that she doesn't want this development, when it leads to such an obvious deterioration of the existing schools at Trondheim Center.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e869	I don't think it's natural here to do any proceedings – in a case that has not yet reached my table, not even the Education Directorate's table. They are still awaiting, as far as I know, an opinion from the county council, which, of course, should be given great importance when it arrives. In general, this freedom of choice for which we are, we are in favour of diversity, parental rights, etc. However, when deciding on these applications under the law on free schooling, more aspects should be taken into account, including: the consequences. These consequences can well be divided into two: that is the consequences for the students, and that is the consequences for the county. Both components must be assessed. It is clear that if the impact on students is a severely impaired provision of education, for example: that offers fall away, etc., and that it goes beyond the school structure in that way, it is a significant moment. As far as the counties are concerned, it is important to take into account their planning challenges, so to speak, as they are obliged to offer places to all because we are all entitled to secondary education. All of this will be assessed, and conditions related to colleges will also be considered. For example, today if you have not started a boarding school within a certain time after you have received an approval, the approval will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e878	I thank you for your answer again. The county council has expressed itself, at least so that it has stood in accessible media, and it strongly warns against this. And if I understood that correctly, a unanimous city council, including the bourgeois parties in Trondheim City Council, is concerned about what this could lead to for the school structure in Trondheim. This is a matter that has a significant negative impact on Trondheim, and that's why there's reason to warn against it right now. I see to the Council of State that it also sees that it can lead to a significant deterioration in the general learning environment if this has the major consequences that the county authority points out in various articles that have been published in the newspapers. I also understand that the Council of State believes that when this matter comes to the Council of State's table, which it will do, it will be crucially important to do so. This means that these schools that have now applied cannot really expect their applications to be approved, if the consequence is as large as the municipality and the municipality of Trondheim have pointed out. What it's going to be about is general disciplines. These are the cheapest lines that we're talking about. It won't be about the expensive lines, they must be left with the county itself, because you don't make money on them. That's what's the starting point for these applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e887	The representative Djupedal can't draw me any further than I myself have expressed. I do not know this case and its contents, but I have explained the general considerations that apply when assessing an authorisation. After all, this law of free school is not made in the interests of the counties or municipalities. It is designed for the benefit of the students, and the aim is to improve the provision of education as a whole. The counties do not have veto rights, but if you can prove significant negative consequences for the students or for the counties in the sense that the next instance is going down on the students, then there is something to be given weight. The director will look at when they get the case, and then we'll see if one or the other would sue. Then I get back to the specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e898	‘Safety training for fishermen is an important measure to prevent accidents. Security training is administered by Tromsø Maritime School, on the basis of an agreement between the Ministry of Education and Research and the County of Tromsø. This agreement expired on 3 February 2005. The government has promised to return to Stortinget with a comprehensive review of security training. When will the Council of State provide a review of the Security Training for the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e905	In the 2005 State Budget, the Government of Stortinget announced that the Ministry is working to assess how to organise the offer of safety training for fishermen and how best to manage the state funds. The regulation governing safety training falls within the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In the context of the ratification of the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will carry out a review of the Regulation on the Safety Training of Fishermen and make necessary changes on this basis. Draft regulation will be sent to interested parties at general consultation. Before this work is completed, the Ministry considers it inappropriate to conclude with regard to the future organisation of the safety training of fishermen. For the time being, it is set up to continue the organisation of the day. The Tromsø County Council and the Tromsø Maritime School have been asked to prepare the 2005 budget for security training, based on the assumptions laid down in the budget decision of the Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e916	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that in 2005 we still operate in the security training centres. I'm not hiding that we who come from North Norway have a very big drag in this case – it's been up several times in the Questionnaire – but it's probably based on the commitment we have, and the plague we have from the home countries. Operation will take place in 2005, but a significant proportion of the fishermen will be trained. User payments for 2005 amount to 4 million. kr in the budget of the training centres, and I think that is a significant amount. We're also going to increase the price per. participant. This is a problem, especially for young fishermen who are going into the industry. My follow-up question will then be: When the department and the directorate have received the hearing and we have received an answer, will the whole matter come to the Stortinget for an overall treatment of future organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e927	Now we're going to see what this change in regulation is going to lead to. As I said, it will be open to consultation, and all interested parties will have the opportunity to make their views known. But I think it's natural that the conclusion you reach after that is also appropriately presented to the Stortinget – I don't want to say exactly what's most appropriate here, but I think it's natural, because on repeated occasions this case has been presented to the Stortinget in various ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e932	Then I just want to end by asking: There is a debate in the Nordic media about the training, and many fear that the entire training system will be privatised. Can the Council of State say anything about what she thinks about the future organisation of safety training for fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e939	I don't want to get into it, among other things. because it is not only the Ministry of Education and Research that is now involved in this regulatory work, but also the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The thoughts we are making will finally come out clearly in a hearing, and then the interested parties will have the opportunity to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e948	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘I refer to the review of coastal sites in St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005 on maritime safety and oil protection. Several municipal politicians have responded that they have not been taken on board or are orientated when the Coastal Directorate has picked out beaching sites for wrecked ships from which it leaks oil. Can the Council of State explain whether this is a common practice, and will the Council of State consider instructing the Coastal Directorate to inform municipalities in the future and be included in advice prior to the designation of coastal sites?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e957	In some cases, the use of the port of refuge and the beaching of ships can be the best solution to prevent pollution from becoming more extensive than alternative solutions. The coastal facility's emergency port planning is therefore an important element of state preparedness for acute pollution. In a crisis situation where there is a risk of major pollution, action management must be able to act quickly. In principle, any site may be used, but in order to be as prepared as possible, the authorities have pre-selected possible sites for both emergency and coastal sites. For this reason, the Coast Guard Agency has also established clear procedures for dealing with any situation, where local authorities will also be involved in the decision, before stranding or seeking a place of refuge. The identification of potential places of refuge or beaching has involved both environmental authorities and local authorities. The Maritime Directorate, which previously had this responsibility, concluded in 1995 a survey of potential emergency ports and coastal sites. The Coastal Directorate has been building on that 1995 survey and quality assurance has been carried out on emergency ports and beaching sites by identifying changes since 1995 which make the site less suitable than in the past. The overall overview shows that it is about 60 seaports and 60 coastal sites. The list is public, and it's on the Coastal Network's Internet pages. To be in advance of the expected development of oil transport along the Norwegian coast, the Coastal Authority has already launched an update of the list of sites that may be suitable as emergency ports or beaching sites. Work started in Troms and Finnmark and will continue along the coast in 2005. This work will take place in close cooperation with the relevant municipalities. Current emergency ports and beaching sites will also be incorporated into inter-municipal emergency plans to ensure consistency between local and national emergency plans. So when the representative asks if I want to instruct the Coastal Directorate to brief the municipalities and take them on advice before any new beaching sites are pointed out, the answer is that previous monitoring of possible sites, both of emergency ports and of beaching sites, has involved local authorities. However, I and the Swedish Coastal Agency agree that in the current update, close contact should be maintained with local authorities and that they should be involved in such a way as to address the concerns and concerns that the questioner reflects. I have a great deal of understanding that local authorities have a desire to be up-to-date on this, and on the part of the Coastal Agency and on my part it is absolutely a wish. So instructions are not necessary, but the Coastal Works and I agree that the municipalities should be involved in the current round in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e974	I am very pleased with the answer that the Minister for Fisheries has now given. We have received very many distressed feedback that the local authorities have not been involved in this process. The plan is from 1995 onwards. The process behind the plan may have started 12-13 years ago, and there has been a development in many municipalities. They want to be part of a process and they spoke out. I'm assuming that the Council of State and I are some of them that we have a very strong hope that we'll never need these coastal settlements, and that's the goal. But I can specify one example, on Ashøy. There is now a sketch over a beach site on Davangerwagen. There's Norway Seafoods a sardine factory, and one has breeding grounds for fish, and getting a ship with maybe large oil leaks will have tremendous consequences. The council has told him not to instruct the Coast. He said they want to do the job. I sincerely hope that they will do so, and that in this process they will take with them the local authorities to find the best places they can have. Hopefully, we'll never need these beaching grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e981	I would like to stress that the absolute last thing we're going to do is stranding or searching for a port of refuge. This happens when you can't limit the damage by any other means. Then any space will be up to date. But in order to have the best possible overview, a pre-clearance has been made. The new round we are now taking is to see if there are any changes in business or other activity that make the place no longer suitable. In a situation where there may be significant damage, it will also be necessary to use places where the damage could be dramatic locally. But that's definitely the last thing you do. Moreover, I would just like to stress that when the Maritime Directorate in the 1980s did the first work on beaching sites – I was informed by the Maritime Directorate, which is not under my responsibility – local authorities were involved. When proposals were made in 1995 in a new round, both the county officials, the Directorate for Nature Management, the Coastal Directorate, the Directorate for Fisheries, the State Pollution Control and the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association were among the hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e990	I feel confident that one of them is starting a very good process. Now, the threat picture, as we call it, has changed, because we've got a much bigger oil transport, especially from Russia and along the Finnmark coast. But even when what happens to all the oil transport in my county, Hordaland, there is a deep concern in some local environment about what will happen if the worst thing happens. I hope, in the process of the big message and what the Government is proposing, that preparedness is the most important thing, and that the Council of State will take with it the recordings that come from the local authorities that are deeply concerned about this, but of course it will have the best preparedness to avoid the use of these coastal sites and ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e997	It is commendable by the representative Vihovde to address this question, which reflects the concern that is gone, and the responsibility that I perceive the municipalities will take part in, by identifying the most appropriate places. I think that everyone is concerned that we have to make provision for the areas that are suitable to limit the damage when a disaster faces the door. The fact that the issue is addressed in the Storting stresses, in particular, that national authorities are concerned about this. I'm going to make sure that the Coastal Plant takes care of the concern that the questioner is interested in, namely that the local authority should be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1008	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘After a look in the Fisheries Bulletin on Tuesday 1 February 2005, it appears that the Lofotoppsyn is under strong pressure. What will the Council of State do to keep Lofoto vision as it is today and to avoid labour-related dismissals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1017	The representative Bastisen and I can certainly agree that it may be useful to get a case clarified and not just rely on the Fisheries Bulletin's reference. The fact is that we are reviewing some changes from the current year, by replacing temporary guards with permanent inspectors. We do that for two reasons. Firstly, we are going to get more out of the government's appropriations, and secondly, we want to change the facility of Lofotovision's tasks to become a more holistic service in the area of resource control. We are going to get more out of the money by using full-time inspectors from the Directorate of Fisheries in the supervision work related to hailing. By virtue of their local knowledge, competence and powers, inspectors will be able to carry out this task in a good way. I feel absolutely sure of that. At the same time – I stress at the same time – they will be able to carry out important work in the area of resource control. Inspectors of the Directorate of Fisheries will also be able to participate in on-shore control by virtue of their posts. This will improve the effectiveness of the overall control and oversight work to be carried out during the loot fishing process. The number of participating vessels in the surveillance will be the same as in 2004. Vessels have professional skippers and shall be manned by experienced inspectors only from the Directorate. An evaluation of the functioning of the new system and of the need for further changes will be carried out at the end of the catch. Fisheries management is now starting work, in cooperation with industry, on simplifying the legislation governing loco fishing. There is reason to believe that a more time-consuming regulatory framework, which takes more account of the changes on the fisheries side, could be anti-conflict and facilitate the implementation of this ‘high-activity fishing’. In other words, the lofoto vision shall be maintained. Fishermen, shore-based receptions and the authorities have a common interest in the orderly closure of the loot fishing in order to ensure the safety, efficient fishing and supply of the individual and a reliable record of the catches taken. These are matters that have not changed and that will also be taken care of in the future. I understand that changing schemes that the industry has been dealing with over a long time can create some uncertainty. But my responsibility is to make sure that both fishing is done in order, and that we have good control of the resource take-off. We have provided that we will achieve in a better way through the system that we are now introducing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1037	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the past, Lofotoppsyn employees were required to have the Coastal Shipper’s Exam. This requirement is now waived. Why? Does not the Council of State fear that unprincipled employees without maritime experience will cause serious problems for fishermen during the looting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1044	Those responsible for the operation of the surveillance vessels shall have the necessary qualifications for the operation of the vessels. What we wanted is to have inspectors who are good at controlling the implementation of fishing, and not least control of the resource take-off. This is why we want to use inspectors who can carry out both control and oversight activities in the field and also follow the activity on land. Because this is the two-point. Having a good resource control, we want it, and it's not least the size was concerned that I'm going to make sure we have. And then it's my clear conviction that you don't have to have the Coastal Ship Exam, to do that part of the job. In the case of the part of the job that requires the master's examination, the skippers have on board the vessels that we use for control.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1049	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think that as a skipper on a ship you are not a cop, and you have no authority. Has the Directorate of Fisheries dropped Lofotoppsyn? Or are these plans? Or is it a reorganization that excludes people who have had jobs for Lofotoppsyn for 20-30 years? Does the Council of State fear that there will be a number of labour law cases in the wake of this case, which should have been handled quite specifically?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1054	Now I'm not sure if the questioner came along when I gave the answer, for the first part of the question now I have already answered: No, we're not going to put down the Lofoto vision. We're going to strengthen it by getting better resource control, and that's an important part of the activity that's going to take place there. As far as labour law matters are concerned, I do not want to comment on that in Stortinget. But it is a fundamental wish on our part – on the part of the Directorate and on the part of the Department – that we have well-qualified people. It is our inspectors who have been trained to carry out the checks to be carried out. Then you must not mix it with the skippers on the vessels that are being carried.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1064	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘According to the minutes of the Health South Business Meeting on 27 January 2006, the majority decided to achieve a financial balance during 2006. For 2005 negative annual results shall not exceed 500 million. kr. The minority is of the opinion that HOD underestimates the impact of the necessary measures. They are concerned about the quality of health services. The minority do not accept the requirements without an overview of the consequences, which seems to be a reasonable requirement. Does the Council have an overview of the expected consequences and analyses thereof?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1073	Let me first clarify one thing in relation to the question itself, where it says that according to the protocol of the Health South Business Meeting on 27 January, the majority decided to reach a financial balance: there is no majority and minority in the business meeting. There's only one voice, and it's my own. So there's no minority that can't accept demands, etc. There is a protocol supply from the employees that is the basis for this. Let me begin by saying that, from the first day, it has always been almost a matter of course and a prerequisite for the country’s health businesses to be balanced. The funds decided by the Storting must be used. If anything else happens, it follows that the Riksrevision, and ultimately the Supervisory Committee, with which the President is well-known, will have views on this. It also means that I have been dealing with the decision taken in relation to the budget of the year, and as far as I remember, it was unanimous in saying that regional health businesses should be run in balance by the end of this year. For Health South, there was a two-year transition period, as what was estimated was a much larger deficit. It was then estimated at 900 million. kr. Now it might seem to be even smaller, and I've divided this in two years, where we take a little bit less than half the first year, so you get double effects next year, and then I assume that one is finished. With regard to the implications of the budget decision, and the consequences of the fact that the Storting has granted NOK 65 billion, I am very convinced that in 2005 too, we will have the best health care in the world, distributing the DKK 65 billion in a sensible way. There is nothing to suggest that it will not also be the case in Health South, even though there is a major migration challenge, and when one has suffered a deficit with open eyes, it would, in my opinion, be demoralising if one were to apply exceptional measures to one region in relation to the other. One must take into account the whole country. It was the premise of what I put before the Storting, and to which the Storting has actually joined unanimously. Even with these changes, this will not in any way affect the soundness of the offer that we are going to make as it appears in the Special Health Service Act – I am never in doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1082	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We do not have the best health service in the world, and we will not get it in 2005, is my reverent claim. I do not understand that the Minister of Health at the Business Meeting on 27 January has approved a decision that simply says that the negative operating result for 2005 should not exceed 500 million. kr. In my opinion, the Minister for Health should have supported the administration of the minority protocol that the requirements of the decision cannot be accepted without an impact assessment for the decision. The proposal from the administration of Health South is, in my opinion, quite unprofessional. One cannot promote this type of savings proposal without at the same time clarifying the impact of this type of savings on future patient treatment in 2005. As I know the economic situation in Health South, it is obvious that this decision, if it is to be implemented, will lead to a significant reduction in patient treatment in the region in 2005. Can the Minister for Health as the Minister responsible for specialist health care really accept this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1091	We have to try to stay within speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1094	I assume that the representative Alvheim is fully aware of the decision that a unanimous increase has made, and that I have simply continued to speak as it arises. The size has determined that the four health regions Health East, West, Middle and North will have a balance at the end of the year, and Health South will have two years. I've dealt with that, I've done that. Everything else, at my discretion, would have been irresponsible. Although Health South with its challenges must make adjustments in the order of 2-3 p.m., Health South's administration and administration – as far as I know after attending all the meetings where this has been discussed at the overall level – sees itself absolutely capable of delivering what the Stortinget has provided. That's what I've been going on, explained in St.prp. No 1, and so it's got a unanimous growth to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1099	I thank you again for the answer. There is, of course, no contradiction between the size of the budget and the impact of hospital treatment when making the savings provided for in the decision. I think that's quite natural, and it would be natural in any business. Because of this decision, health Blefjell will be subject to an additional saving requirement of approximately EUR 15 million. Forty million. kr. Now it is openly discussed in the media at home if some members of the board consider putting their place of office in Health Blefjell, because they do not think this is appropriate in any way, and will not take responsibility for a significant cut in patient treatment, as the director has suggested. Will the Minister for Health ensure that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Storting is adequately presented with an overall picture of the consequences for patient treatment resulting from the 2005 balance requirement for the four enterprises and in 2006 for Health South?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1108	We've set up specialist health services in the way that we're based on St.prp. No 1, which has been dealt with by the Storting and which has been discussed by the Committee – it has made a long setting with a lot of details on what to prioritise, and what not to prioritise, which I have passed on in the governance documents sent – directs the Norwegian specialist healthcare service, namely by providing clear directives and through budgetary frameworks. Then it's up to some regional health companies to implement this. At all times, it must be in line with the legislation on specialist health services, namely that it should be responsible. Which departments are to be extended and not extended, where structural action is to be taken, is not one thing either for the Storing or for the Council of State to decide. The size has decided that it should be done by the regional health enterprise boards. That's why they're sitting there, that's why we spend a long time picking out good people for it, and that's why we pay them well to do that job – not to make them play the ball back and forth, to big and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1117	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the Glåmdalen newspaper on 24 January 2005, we can read about a local lorry driver who is confused with several others that he can drive south through the Brevik tunnel at Flekkefjord, but when he comes back, the car is too high. If the driver continues, the road authority of the State is at risk of notification and detachment. The base is a mountain piece that makes it southwards is 4,20 meters that apply, but back 4 meters. What will the Council of State do to ensure that you can drive both directions legally when the car is for example. 4,18 metres high?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1126	In Norway, the maximum height of trucks is not required, as is the case in many other countries. Where there are height barriers lower than 4,50 m, prohibition signs are set up to regulate the altitude limits applicable. In the work so far done to increase the heights of the low tunnels, a priority has a height limit of 4.0 m, which is the limit in force in large parts of Europe. To be able to sign with 4,0 m, the tunnel is required to be at least 4,10 m. A safety margin of 10 cm is required, including: in order to be able to reassemble the asphalt cover without having to cut the tunnel to a lower height. The Brevik tunnel and some other tunnels are unsymmetrical for various reasons, i.e.: that they're lower on one side. That's why there's different heights, depending on which direction you run. In addition to the Brevik tunnel, there are two short tunnels which are closely interlocked, which are also signposted in the same way. The work of expanding the too low lots has begun and is expected to be completed in the near future. It will then be permitted for vehicles up to 4,20 m. The said vehicle of 4.18 m will therefore be able to legally drive both roads in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1137	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was positive for the truck industry. It is, of course, frustrating for drivers to be able to drive through the tunnel one way, but not back. It often costs a lot of money, as you have to take a turn to travel on. Otherwise it was positive that the work started by expanding the mentioned tunnel, and some others, so that it would be equal to the height of both roads. In addition, it is positive that the authorities have acted so quickly, for in the article 24 January this year and in my conversations with several drivers and organisations, it was shown that drivers were threatened by the local road authorities with both separation and notification if they continued to pass both roads with this type of car above 4 m in height. One driver has been driving there since 1978 and has passed the place 2,000 times, and he felt very frustrated that he was now threatened with a report and a detachment. But I think the answer I've been given is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1144	We're taking security seriously. That's why we have this sign of altitude limitation on tunnels. As I said, it's like in other parts of Europe it's essentially 4 m that's legal height of the cars. In Norway, we have chosen not to set such a limit. It has recently been shown that it may be difficult not to have a general limitation on the height of cars. But we want a little bit more flexible solutions. We're a country that sometimes needs a little more flexible solutions, and therefore I'm going to work to hopefully avoid having to have that kind of limit on the permissible height of cars. Then I would also like to stress that the State Road Service only has the authority to measure and report relations with the police. It is the police who can, if necessary, separate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1151	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very positive that the Council of State says that you are willing to make flexible solutions, because I think Norway needs that, both in the truck industry and in other industries – just so it is said. Otherwise, I ask a little question about how to rain down. Because as I understand it, you round down to the nearest 10 centimeters, and then you subtract another 10 centimeters. So if the aperture is 4.19, it's going to be 4 sts-- from 4.19 to 4.10, and then another 10 cm, to 4 sts. And having such good safety margins, some truck drivers find something unfair. It's not as often you asphalt the roadway inside a tunnel. It could happen at many years intervals, so maybe you shouldn't be so tired of rounding down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1163	When you're going to have a safe distance to go on here, it's probably the philosophy that you have to round down and not up. You can't have a safety margin wrong. That's probably the main point of thinking about those paths. It'll probably still be that there'll be a need to have a few centimeters to go on, to go in a different direction, it'll probably be wrong. One thing is asphalting, but there could also be other things in the roadway. So you have to have a few centimeters to go on. And as I said in my answer, I want to avoid making demands on the height of the car in Norway, and rather try to adjust the tunnels a little bit higher than what you have in many places in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1192	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time, as the relevant state councils have gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1200	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘I am aware that BP provides for a development strategy for the Valhalla and Skarv projects based on pure manufacturing contracts and not EPC contracts where design forms an integral part of the contracts. The EPC model has long been unique on Norwegian soil and has highlighted Norwegian competitiveness by allowing Norwegian suppliers to compete on final results rather than on hourly prices. Has the State Council made BP aware that a manufacturing orientation makes it difficult for Norwegian suppliers to compete?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1209	Yes, the department has been in contact with BP’s management in Norway regarding the contract strategy at Valhalla and is familiar with the assessments behind BP’s choice of contract strategy. I also want to add that I have faith that the Norwegian supplier industry is competitive for future tasks, both on Norwegian continental shelf and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1216	There have been examples of contracts that have led to large exceedances, both in the case of the Snow White project, and now, not least, in relation to the Kristin field. This suggests that someone here should do something to ensure that the industry has access to these contracts. The Committee also delivered a request decision last year in connection with the oil notification that pointed that out. What will the Council of State do to follow up the comments of the oil and energy committee on the oil notification last year to promote a contract use on Norwegian plaza, which is in line with Norwegian traditions and which takes care of Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1223	As I said in my answer, we have had contact with BP in this particular case, and the department underlines in the meetings we have with the oil companies, which want both the Government and the Stortinget, not least, in relation to this. I would like to add that we have had a meeting with TBL where representatives from the trade union were also present, and also a meeting with BP in this specific case, where it has been stressed that both the Government and the Stortinget are concerned that oil companies are using project strategies based on contract strategies that are not a disadvantage for Norwegian industry, cf. the setting to which reference was also made here, emphasising that Norwegian industry should not be discriminated against through the contract strategies chosen. I feel a great need to stress that it was also made clear in the context of both the KON-CRAFT and NORSOK process, which led to these EPC contracts being dominant in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1230	I would like to thank you for your answer and say I am pleased that the Council of State has an offensive attitude towards this. The Petroleum Act is quite clear: ‘The Petroleum Reserves are to be managed in a long-term perspective so that they benefit the entire Norwegian community.’ As I see it, this is an area where the Council of State will take care of and which she will continue to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1235	We're trying as hard as we can to point out the enormous experience, the expertise and the competitiveness that the supply industry in Norway actually has. We see it weekly that the Norwegian supplier industry wins contracts on both Norwegian and international basis. We also need to be aware that many of the foreign companies that have been very active on Norwegian base are involved in the Norwegian supplier industry when they compete internationally. So what's most important, and we need to focus on, is that the Norwegian supplier industry gets so good framework conditions that they're able to compete, and that they're competitive both at home and outside. It is only when they have the opportunity to win important contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1243	‘In the setting of the Villaks Committee, the need to find out whether Norwegian wild species can develop heritable resistance to the Gyrodactylus salaris parasite. [[NOT 1999:9]] The uncertainty about the effect of rotenone makes this issue even more important. For 5 years, a group of researchers and local interests along Drammenselva have applied for funds to find answers to the question. A trial was carried out 2 years ago, but was stopped pending a lack of funding. Will the Council of State contribute to the completion of the experiment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1250	It is correct that the Villax selection in its configuration addressed the issue of the production of salmon with heritable resistance to Gyrodactylus salaris as a conceivable alternative to an active strategy for suppression. However, the selection concluded that the possibilities for developing resistance while maintaining other hereditary characteristics of the populations seemed to be very uncertain. Furthermore, the selection concluded that this method could lead to a higher risk of spread of infection. In view of this, the selection recommended that the parasite be actively suppressed with rotenone in combination with others. development of new chemical agents directed directly towards the parasite. A possible progression of resistant salmon meant that the selection had to be based on a premise that the infection pressure would not have to be increased. The Villax selection settings for this area have been followed up. The active suppression of Gyrodactylus salaris has been continued, and active and targeted efforts from the first series of NIVA have now developed a specific method of reducing the parasite with aluminium. This can be an important breakthrough in the fight against Gyro, and the trade unions are now planning to use aluminium as the main method when we start working later this year to get rid of the parasite from Lærdalselva. In this situation, the Drammenselva project may be of professional interest from a basic research perspective, but there is no gap between the highest priority measures in the management of Gyro. I therefore maintain the practice that any financing of the project should go through the Norwegian Research Council or the Research Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1259	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very happy that it is now beginning to come alternatives to the poison that rotenon actually is. For us passionate salmon fishermen, this is an important question. I have two follow-up questions for the Council of State. One is whether it is possible to have a dialogue with the Research Council in order to get more complete in the knowledge that needs to be built up in terms of the opportunities we have to keep our salmon elves away from the terrible attacks they have been subjected to. We also see that there is a great commitment and a great willingness to volunteer for the management of our fishing resources in fresh water. My second question to the Council of State is whether he is willing to take over all that commitment and try to get it into a structure that allows people who are willing to spend both money and time to do it properly, and get the opportunity to develop that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1266	I share the positive grip that Trine Skei Grande here shows for the possibilities that we're now seeing in this area. It's very exciting. It will undoubtedly be very positive for the health of the ecosystems in the watercourse if, among other things. the project Lærdalselva will be a success. And very much indicates that. On the question of whether I want to contact the Research Council, I can reply with confirmation that yes, I want to contact the Norwegian Research Council to get an appointment from there, get their professional assessments related to the projects they are now considering, and their priorities there. I'm also busy with the public engagement. We're forced to be there and take care of it. There is a tree in all environmental protection work, and I believe that we should also look positively within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1275	I thank you for your answer. I'm good at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1280	And then the council doesn't want to add anything either, when everyone is so happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1289	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for the Environment: ‘Danish Minister for the Environment Børge Brende promised in the evening post on 2 August 2003 that no protected forest would be lost and that the Government would enter with temporary protection in the event of such destruction. Protective natural forests in the Stordalen in Sogn and Fjordane and on Bevøy in Østfold are now threatened by the development of forest road and power street respectively. What will the Council of State do to ensure that no intervention is carried out in the protected natural forest of Stordalen and Bevøy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1298	There is broad political support for increasing forest protection in Norway and for a high professional quality of forest protection, while at the same time reducing the level of conflict. This was confirmed when, in November 2003, the Stortinget discussed the protection of forests during the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 2002-2003, the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. In our government's efforts to increase forest protection, we place great emphasis on high professional quality and a reduced level of conflict. To reduce conflicts, we are investing in other things. on voluntary protection as an important working method. The area of Stordalen in Sogn and Fjordane have high levels of protection, but due to a high level of conflict, it was taken out of the protection plan for coniferous forests in western Norway before this plan was adopted in December 1999. Since then, the area has been managed by forestry law. Work on voluntary protection was started in 2004 in the direction of the Norwegian Forest Association in Stordalen. I now see it as important that a further effort is made to provide a good supply of voluntary protection for the Stordalen, and such a supply will then be assessed by the environmental governance powers. Movements in Eastfold were formerly included in the Protection Plan for Coniferous Forest, but were then taken out of the protection work due to limited area quotas. In September 2004, the Directorate of Nature Management assessed that they did not wish to start a new process of protection of the environment. The Federation of Nature and Youth has now submitted a new monitoring of the protection values of Bevøy, and I will now ask the Directorate for Nature Management to consider whether new knowledge may provide the basis for starting a new process of protection for Bevøy. For both the forest areas the representative Leknes points out, the Directorate for Nature Management has recently received letters from the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association and Nature and Youth with a call for temporary protection. Before the directorate has made its assessments, it will not be right for me to go into an assessment of temporary protection for the two specific areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1313	I thank you for your answer. I would like to remind the Council of State that the conservation of biodiversity is a major and important challenge for Norway. Issues relating to biodiversity have no withdrawal period. If you're eradicating a species, it's not possible to revive it through, for example. a budget allocation. Many Norwegian species depend on natural forests to survive. Of over 3,000 species on the Norwegian red list, over 1 400 live in the forest. Norway is obliged by international law to preserve its biodiversity through the Rio Convention. The protection of additional forests is a prerequisite for preserving that diversity. Will the Council of State ensure that Norway is able to discharge its obligations under international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1322	I fully share with the representative Leknes' assessment of the importance of protection, and I am pleased that SV is a party that has supported the positive protection work that has taken place in recent years, with a monthly increase in protection. I believe protection is a very good tool to secure what the representative Leknes points out here. It is also an important matter of value, because there is no withdrawal period here. Therefore, it is important that we have followed up on this. I'm also very busy following the responsibility we have under the international conventions. When it comes to the areas currently mentioned, an assessment from the Directorate of Nature Management will be made. So I don't want to comment on them until that assessment is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1329	Then I thank you for what I see as a positive answer. At the same time, I would like to remind you that forest protection has at times been characterised by much unforeseeability and too little appropriations, especially compared to our Swedish and Finnish neighbours. In Sweden, they aim to spend DKK 1 billion annually on forest protection. By comparison, around 50 million are granted in Norway. kr on the 2005 state budget. Sweden has protected about 5 pst. of its natural forest, while in Norway we are in about 1 pst. In order to increase predictability in the protection process, several parties have proposed a forest protection fund so that the protection does not depend on the appropriations from the State budget to the State budget. Would the Council of State be able to support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1336	I'm very busy that we're going to increase our forest protection and think we've found good solutions to get it done. One is that we have taken initiatives for voluntary protection, which are involved both in ensuring protection and in reducing the level of conflict. The second is that the state is involved in taking more responsibility through, among other things. that also parts of Statskog's forests are being protected – there is now a process going on – and that through our budget we have just invested in protection. One of the initiatives in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget for 2005 was an increase in forest protection. So it's always the case that we'd like to want even more money, but of the resources that the Ministry of the Environment had to consult, there was, among other things. priority for the protection of forests. It shows that we see this as important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1341	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-09.ana.ud34e1352	There is no record.
