ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e29	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e38	St. pp. No 70 for 2004-2005 deals with two themes. The first is about changes to the ‘Appendix Regulation’, etc. to released vulnerable teams’.» On the basis of the salary bill for government employees, the disbursement allowance for compulsory personnel is proposed to be increased by NOK 1500 from 1 July 2005. These additional costs are calculated at NOK 670000. These adjustments have been regulated, over a number of years, on the basis of the salary structure of the employees of the State and have been based on the regulation provided at the lowest wage level for the adult unskilled workforce, in line with the views of the Defence Committee. These annual adjustments based on remuneration are an attempt to ensure a fair standard of living for those under protection. Both the Grand total and the guardians are committed to strengthening the dispensation allowance. For this reason, the entire proposed sum has been proposed as just used for the purpose of disbursement. The regulatory proposal is based on the mediation between the State and the organisations with an increase of 2,04 pst. as a result. A unanimous committee thus supports the proposal. The second case concerns changes in the level of military office. Int. S. No 198 for 1995-1996 to St.prp. No 38 for 1995-1996, the lower limit for military posts was set at the level of Colonel/Commander. In this proposition, the Ministry expressed the view that further adjustment of the lower limit of military office would be considered. The Committee has noted that the Ministry is now proposing to change the level of appointment of military officials to officials from Colonel to Brigadier level. The Committee has also noted that the number of officers has increased more significantly than that of the old structure. We also see that the level of pay in the Defence has grown dramatically in recent years, despite the fact that we have a decline in the number of defence sites, and that the number of soldiers – and thus the activity – has been reduced. The Committee therefore considers it natural that the level of officers’ degrees reflect the scope of responsibilities and powers assigned to him. The Committee has otherwise obtained opinions from the various employee organisations as well as the views of the Ministry. On the basis of this, the Committee would like the Government to return to the Stortinget case, when we, among other things, wishes for a further assessment of the level of military duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e53	The obligation to protect is likely to become important for the Norwegian defence for a few more years. By virtue of the duty of protection, the Armed Forces recruits crews for their professional departments, for foreign missions and for command training. While we see that the protection obligation is important for the defence, we know that from this year on, under 10,000 young men and women are performing the initial service. The number might be as low as 8 000. So, in my time in the Defence Committee, we have witnessed that there will be an ever smaller percentage of young people implementing the protection obligation. Less than 40 pst. serve as a protection obligation. I still think it is, and has been, a proper development because it is the defence needs that must be decisive for how many are to be admitted to service. So out of a youth coal of 55 000 to 60 000, it's just 17 to 18 pst. serving a duty of protection. This is unfair in many ways. The question is whether the duty of protection is at all fair and correct in the future, but there is another debate. It is important that first-time service providers feel that they are getting something for it. That's why I've been happy to see that the status-enforcement measures for guardians are about to go through. The dispensation allowance has been greatly increased in recent years, and the possibility of training during the service is now in place. We can also add that in the future, guardians will receive pension compensation for the provision of security services. The government proposed in St.prp. No 70 to cancel the distribution allowance again. The working party joins with this. But it must not be the case that after the service is over, guardians receive all the goods. Even increased distribution compensation cannot compensate for a service that feels too much senseless. The Committee also agreed on the proposal to change the level of military service. The level of military official status is proposed to be changed from Colonel to Brigades, inter alia. in order to achieve a better equality between military and civil leadership positions in the Ministry of Defence. The members of the Defence Committee have noted the growth in military positions related to the rank of colonel and colonel. Developments do not appear to be consistent with the reduction in defence organisations. First amanunensis Nils Naastad at the Air War School writes in a 2004 comment that Air Force leaders currently make up 28 brigades and generals as well as 44 chiefs. Naastad refers to the 1972 state calendar, where he finds that the Air Force at the time had 10 generals and 35 tops – so there has been an increase of 60 pst. The development of the Army is the same. The 2002 state calendar shows that there were 33 men from Brigades and upward, as well as 69 tops. The 1972 figures show 15 generals and 80 tops respectively — but Norway still had an army at that time. It is unfortunate that the Ministry of Defence has not sufficiently involved the stakeholder organisations in the process. If it had been done before this proposition was promoted, the matter would probably have been agreed and concluded here today. Now the proposal has to be examined again. But then I won't be able to give my support from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e72	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e88	Earlier today, the size of the population has debated the additional consumption of the defence budget in 2004. Much of the debate then focused on the accounts for 2004. I don't see all the world's need to repeat that debate throughout its length and breadth, and assume that the debate on this matter can be somewhat more restricted, or reduced, than what we have put up to. I have some comments anyway. The size has had many and, in part, serious observations on the defence accounts for several years, based on the findings of the National Audit Office and the National Audit Office's reports. The 2003 accounts were stapled with so many errors and were missing that it could not be approved by the Riksrevision. Under a new law, the National Audit Office shall no longer approve the accounts. The size therefore refers to the interpretation of the formulations set out in the audit report. For the 2004 accounts, the Riksrevision states, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Court of Auditors has significant observations on the accounts of the military organisation of the defence and the implementation of the budget and cannot confirm that the accounts of the FMO are without significant errors and deficiencies, even if there are improvements from 2003.’ [[FMO]] For those of us who are not well inside the military abbreviations: the FMO is the abbreviation of the Defense Military Organization. So even though there are improvements, we're once again finding some of the conditions that were pointed out in earlier years. There are still extensive errors in pay payments, including to personnel serving in military operations abroad. The balance from the closed boxes is still not in place, and that was approx. 20 000 undrawn items at the end of 2004. Of these, approx. 1300 from previous years – from 2003. This is a total amount of approx. Between 85 and 86 million. kr in the favour of the Defence. In the case of acquisitions, to some extent we see poor records, lack of supporting documentation and lack of registration procedures. The weapons control is not the way it should be in all areas. There is a certain deficiency in the recording of lost weapons, there is no record of weapons for certain foreign operations, and the Riksrevision has estimated the value of these weapons to approx. 3 billion kroner, which – at least when the Riksrevision wrote its report – were not properly understood. Significant material management deficiencies have been identified and material depreciation has been carried out without the necessary powers. In 2004, there were 1,000 new debt collection cases, with a total collection fee of just over 2 million. kr and approx. Three million. kr in interest on late payments. However, by the end of 2004, debt collection was considerably reduced and almost no longer exists. Per. On 31 December 2004, there were at least 3000 overdue bills, amounting to just over 190 million. kr. In practice, this means consumption in 2004 as reflected in the 2005 accounts. This was pointed out during the examination of the accounts for 2003, and it was then assured that this was a scheme that had been closed. So it's now going to pass on significant unpaid bills from the previous year, invoices due for payment, and then transfer them to the accounts for the next year. It's going to wind up, and I'm assuming this is the last year we see this. When we review the accounts in the defence and certain other administrative matters, criticise this, that is precisely what it is — criticism of accounting and certain administrative matters. Those who want to take this criticism into consideration for a general criticism of the defense, and the development of the defense, are therefore completely wrong. This is a criticism that is totally intrusive towards the accounts and certain administrative parts. Income must not be taken into account for criticising the development of defence, etc. So that's not going to be the majority of the Biggest. But the defence must, in addition to developing our defence capabilities nationally and internationally, have control and overview of their economic systems. A question can be raised, and raised, as to why the Stortinget, with all the errors and deficiencies revealed in the 2004 accounts, chooses to include the report of the National Audit Office in the minutes. This does not necessarily mean that we are satisfied with or feel unconditionally reassured by the answers and information provided by the Ministry of Defence. On the part of the majority, the reason for the Grand Duchy’s proceedings is that during the examination of the accounts for 2003, the Grand Duchy decided to ask the Government to bring forward a separate case on how the Government will regain control of the defence economy. The majority of the sizes are set to await this case, which is to be presented without undue delay pursuant to the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 5 April, before any other type of decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e115	In recent years, the National Audit Office has raised several critical issues relating to the defence accounts as a whole. So this time too. Of the departments of the Ministry of Defence, only the military organisation of the Defence Agency, abbreviated the FMO, has received significant comments, and the National Audit Office cannot confirm that the accounts of the FMO are not without material errors and deficiencies. There is reason to stress that the accounts of the Ministry of Defence are not those of the Ministry of Defence. There have obviously been some deliberate and unconscious misunderstandings, both in the media and among politicians. First of all, let me stress that it is serious that the Riksrevision has not found itself able to confirm the accounts of the FMO, but at the same time it is gratifying to note that the Riksrevision in its opinion points out that in several areas there has been a positive development in the accounts compared to the facts in the 2003 notes. Three out of four departments of the Ministry of Defence have no significant observations, and the National Audit Office notes a positive development in the general financial management of Defence Buildings. Let me go into some of the areas where the Riksrevision has comments. First of all, pay. The National Audit Office has ‘discovered extensive mispayments of salaries’, it says, ‘responsible for lack of internal control’ and ‘provides that necessary action is taken’, possibly completed and followed up. As a starting point, it is nice to be able to draw attention to something that is also evident from the comments we have in the position, that the salary statement is now documented for the first time in the history of Defence – i.e. for the first time in the history of Defence, not for the first time in the last four years. This is possible because of the new wage and accounting system, which thus shows that it was correct and necessary to introduce it. With regard to the theme «horizontal trade and traceability», the Riksrevision notes that it has been: ‘lack of traceability in the accounts until October 2004. Action taken in 2004 has resulted in improvements from 2003 to 2004». So here the National Auditor's report shows a documented improvement. With regard to the changeover, the Riksrevision sees that the FMO has faced major challenges within a short period of time in relation to change in the organisation and a new accounting system. ‘The Court of Auditors welcomes the developments that are now taking place in the accounts of the CRP.’» In the case of the Programme Golf, the Riksrevision considers that Golf LP provides a significantly better basis for fully reliable and accurate allocation accounts, and further states that only ‘when Golf LP 2 has been implemented with inter alia internal accounting solutions can it be expected that the FMO has an appropriate tool available to meet the financial management and control requirements’. Having read the report carefully several times, it strikes me that the majority is consistently very trendingly negative to the Riksrevision report, by drawing up the criticism and, in addition, reinforcing it significantly in relation to the Riksrevision opinion. The National Audit Office’s opinion and report are balanced and place considerable emphasis on highlighting the positive developments and improvements of 2003. In addition, in its opinion, the National Audit Board emphasises that defence will not have good solutions in some areas until the introduction of the Gulf LP 2, which is an underpinning of what the Minister of Defence has pointed out in both hearings, debates and the media. In conclusion, I feel the need to pay tribute to all the members of the Department of Defence staff who have made a significant effort to contribute to the defence being able to work out the problems and ensure good control, good procedures and not least maintain a good defence capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e144	There have been several debates on defence issues in the past, so I just want to be very careful about saying a few words about liability, which I have also mentioned earlier. It has always been, in our opinion, the department and the head of defence who has had the real, top responsibility to follow and exercise the financial management of the Defense. The national audit has repeatedly, including in this case, pointed out a lack of control and control. And recent developments have not, in our opinion, shown that we should be optimistic as to whether it is now full control and control. I understand that the Council of States cannot promise that the 2005 accounts will be in line with the 2005 budget. It is the whole purpose of the way in which a government budget is built, that there should be continuous control. If it appears that the accounts are not in accordance with the budget, changes shall be made in unforeseen circumstances, where appropriate in the budget for the autumn. That is why I find it ominous that in another case it has been said that because the revenue may fail as a result of a change in powers, it should have something to do with the activities of the Defence Agency. It is not that the income chapters are governing the expenditure chapters – it is often the case in a company and in a personal economy – but there are autonomous appropriations on each side, which, in our opinion, must not be mixed. The responsibility for the main management lies with the Department, the Council of State and the Chief of Defence. We maintain it in a special note in the present case. We are very sorry that attempts have been made to shift responsibility to subordinates, who were as shocked and astonished at the increase in consumption in 2004 as those who were at the top. We still believe that the description we have given in previous cases is correct. Let me, too, for the sake of order – it has been discussed in some media how the opposition of the Storting has come up with strong criticism, and it has been claimed that it has not been followed up in a logical way with concrete proposals – make our point of view clear, as we did a few months ago: We do not trust the power of the Council of State to get good enough governance with the economy and other things in the Defence. But we cannot promote the proposal we have made in the past, every time it is a defence matter for consideration in this Chamber. Nothing has happened since we last promoted such a proposal, which was to re-establish the lack of confidence on the part of the Progress Party. Of course, we see no reason to promote the same proposal in each case. That would be an untimely mass, and that's why we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e153	Like the rapporteur, I do feel that much of what could have been debated here has already been debated earlier today. But I'm going to make some comments now. I just want to stress what the rapporteur said, that it is the accounts for 2004 that we have up to date. It is a fact that the majority of the population in this regard comes with criticism, as has been done by the National Audit Office, and as has been done in previous years. I must stress that it is quite strong when the National Audit Office states that it cannot be confirmed that the accounts of the Defence Military Organisation are without significant errors or defects. It's actually pretty strong language from the National Audit Office. And the accounts of the Defence Military Organization actually make up a large part of the Ministry of Defence's accounts. I heard in the debate earlier today that much of what has emerged in the Riksrevision report was interpreted as a sort of clearance from the Riksrevision. But with this confirmation it's not possible to say it. So once again, there is reason to wonder whether the Council of State has control and control on the basis of what emerges, whether it is right to point out progress in some areas. What I think is serious is that there is a worrying lack of weapons control. There is a lack of update of the lost weapons registers. Then you have to ask yourself – I hope the Council of State asks itself – if it is the weapon that deviates from it. Furthermore, there is a lack of arms control in the Air Force, a lack of cooperation between the Defense and the Police Act, and not least a lack of accounting for the material used in the foreign activity. The audit of remuneration of defence personnel abroad reveals extensive error records. Then we are back to what has been achieved many times, most recently in the context of the 2003 state accounts and also in the earlier debate today, namely that it is not possible to get an overview of what international operations actually cost. There's reason to ask yourself if there's any extra costs beyond what's going on in the chapter. 1792. In any case, if there are additional costs, these exceedances do not have any consequences. It only has consequences for the two who were designated as scapegoats. I refer here to Kjetil Bjørklund's articles earlier today. And as Mr. Carl I. Hagen, I would like to stress that the responsibility lies with the Chief of Defense and the Council of State. There is once again reason to see if many of the problems that the Ministry of Defence has come from the fact that conversion processes have been carried out without adequate anchoring in the organisation. There's something we've pointed out before, but I'd like to repeat it. Thus, a very complex accounting and wage system was introduced without development of competence — and I stress: no development of competence. In other words, since competence was gone, there were less opportunities for the chapter owners to follow. Internal invoicing — or horizontal trade, as it is called beautiful — is another moment. There is reason to wonder whether it has been introduced on a failed basis. In any case, until October 2004, the Riksaudierte reports on non-traceability. I would like to stress that the defence is an organisation that perhaps more than any other organisation needs trust and legitimacy. It is therefore important that the Council of State has control, and therefore it is incredibly important that the Government adequately follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy in connection with the Inst. S. No 145 for 2004-2005. The rapporteur has pointed out earlier, and that should be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e179	I refer to the case manager's balanced presentation. The Court of Auditors delivered its opinion in Document No. 3:8 that they will criticise the extra consumption of approx. $1.15 billion. The Christian People's Party is united in it. This is unacceptable. We are serious about the fact that the Riksrevision has not confirmed that the accounts of the Defence Military Organisation are without material errors and are missing, but are satisfied that the Riksrevision, on the other hand, points out that in several areas there has been a positive development in accounting, compared with the ratios recorded in the 2003 notes on the accounts. In St.meld. No 29 for 2004–2005, On the additional consumption of the defence budget in 2004, which we are dealing with earlier today, there will be a careful explanation of the reasons for the exceedances. This is an explanation consistent with the reasons given by the defence manager in his annual report. The explanations of the reasons for the message are in fact based on the explanations of the reasons given in the defence manager’s annual report. The Defence Manager has done a very thorough job of finding the actual and real causes of the additional consumption. All parts of the Defence Military Organisation have recorded this report. So the Ministry of Defence has concluded that the head of defence's explanations of the reasons are correct, and based on these in the big news. The fact that there is a deal between the Ministry and the department on the causes, suggests supporting the conclusions and provides a good starting point for the ongoing implementation of the measures. The message points to the fact that everything important of the consumption has happened within the FLO and the Army. Insufficient financial management and control are the main causes of increased consumption. The National Audit Service states that the individual unit in the Defence Service has a self-reliance to keep track of their unit's collective obligations. We're also some people in that it has to be like this. It can't have our good enough follow-up of this in the Army and in the FLO. The Committee is satisfied that the Swedish Defence Research Institute, the National Safety Authority and the Defence Buildings have accepted an audit letter for 2004 without any comments. The Christian People's Party is also content to note a very positive development in Defence Building's financial management. I would also like to point out that the Riksrevision states in Document No. 3:8 for 2004-2005: ‘Despite the fact that good governance dialogue between the Ministry and the FMO has been facilitated, the Riksrevision notes that FMO ended in 2004 with a significant exceedance, approximately. 1.15 B.C.E. crowns, of appropriations granted.’;» The National Audit Service therefore believes that the excess is in spite of the fact that a good governance dialogue between the Ministry and the Defence Department has been established. I would also like to point out that the Riksrevision says the following: ‘The Court of Auditors will note that, in any case, the entities of the FMO have a separate responsibility for keeping an overview of the total liabilities of the unit.’ The Christian People's Party takes seriously the fact that there are extensive mispayments of wages and joins the National Audit Office's commitment to the completion or implementation of the necessary measures. These members have noted that the salary bill is consistent with the 2004 accounting, which has been made possible by the new pay and accounting system. We are pleased to note in a letter from the Ministry of Defence to the Stortinget's Defence Committee of 26 May 2005 that the Defence Department's payroll administration in Harstad has implemented a reconciliation of payroll accounts accumulated so far in 2005, per year. 19 May 2005, and that the payroll has never been documented. The reconciliations include payroll, payroll and drawdown reports, payroll, payroll, and forwards. I welcome the fact that the payroll will be adjusted monthly, and that all three reconciliations are now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e213	The centre party has not been represented in the control committee and has therefore not been involved in the examination of this matter in the committee. But we will essentially join the comments made by the majority in the vote. We believe, like the majority, that it is serious that the Riksrevision has not found itself able to confirm that there are no material errors and deficiencies in the accounts of the FMO. We also feel that it is serious that it is per person. by the end of December, claims of nearly 200 million had been made. kr, and we are uncertain about what is happening in relation to whether it is going to be drawn further into the 2005 accounts. It is also serious that one here has an incomplete material account, which means that one together has a lack of control, at least of the disposal of material, of up to NOK 3 billion. I have noticed that the Department and the Government have subsequently chosen to use actively what is being said by the Riksrevision regarding the next phases of the Program Golf. I find that interesting in relation to the question of the further processing of that programme. It is said by the Government that in order to satisfy the other parts of the economic system related to the internal accounts and observations of the National Audit Office, the next stages of the Programme Golf must be introduced. It is somewhat in contrast to the Government's view that the Storting should be able to determine the different phases of the Program Golf, and that therefore it is not necessary to present the Program Golf as a whole to the Stortinget, nor to provide the Storting with an overall estimate of the estimated costs associated with the Program Golf. It is true that if the Government takes seriously what they say about the Program Golf, and also what the Riksrevision has made out of comments, one will not really be able to stop the process along the way. One will in reality have no maritime possibility for the Storting to be able to stop the project from phase to stage. If the Government's comments are to be taken seriously, the whole program must be implemented. I believe it would have been only fair and reasonable that the Storting had also provided an overview of all phases of the programme and also an overview of the estimated total costs associated with the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e224	I indicated instead that I should not extend this debate any particular, and I regret taking the floor again. I would not have done that if it had not been for my good friend the representative Engeset. He believes that it is ‘ trendy’ that the majority takes hold of the criticisms of the national auditor and that we are not more balanced in our presentation. It is the criticism of this matter that is of importance. Of course, there are millions of things in Defense that are absolutely excellent, and there's no fault in it, but it's when certain mistakes occur that you react. I have to ask the representative Engeset if we should be careful that there are some faults and deficiencies, and instead focus a little more on what is good. The role of Stortinget in this matter is not like this. So here you take into account the mistakes and shortcomings that the Riksrevision finds, points out them, has the necessary value of criticism and tries to balance it the way it should be. I also believe that the Minister for Defence and her people understand this criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e234	I would just like to stress something that the rapporteur, Kjell Engebretsen, said, the importance of a balanced presentation of the National Audit Office's observations. I have several times been concerned that the Ministry of Defence considers the Riksrevision audit to be important to the Ministry. Not least, it gives us an important clue to where we need to improve, and it gives us important encouragement when we have achieved results. That is why I am very pleased that, in a previous debate, the Defence Committee underlined this and gave tribute to all the employees who have contributed to achieving the positive results that the Riksrevision has also pointed out. It is also important, in a balanced image, to recall that the National Audit Office did not have any significant observations either on the accounts of the Ministry of Defence, Defence Building, the National Security Authority or the Defence Research Institute — the other departments of the Ministry of Defence. And it's important to say that despite continuing criticism of the defense's accounts, there has been a positive development. I could imagine linking some comments to a few areas, but I fully agree with the rapporteur, Mr Engretsen, that very much was commented on in the debate we had earlier today. What is important to emphasise is that in 2004, the financial statements were first voted on as a whole. In 2004, the financial statements were also adjusted for the first time to the compensation of employees. These are two reconciliations which provide for control and which have not been possible at any time in the defence accounts, because there has not been a unified, comprehensive accounting system that has satisfied the Financial Regulation. In addition, it is gratifying that the Swedish Armed Forces’ pay administration in Harstad has now implemented a reconciliation of earnings accounts per year. 19 May 2005, which has then accumulated months to date in 2005. The reason why this point is mentioned in particular is that in 2004 it was not possible to make such a third type of reconciliation, but that it is now in 2005. It's joyous, and it's a theme on which the National Auditorate has been concerned. The units of the defence have been subject to all organisational and personnel data, so that the basic data for employees in their own department are correct. It is in order to ensure that payments of errors and burdens in the wage and salary accounts are avoided. This too has been a point on which the National Audit Office has been involved and where the head of defence has taken the necessary action during this spring. The Defence Manager also has in our limited number of persons with order, appointment and attestation mandates at a reasonable minimum, including this in order to ensure better control of the inception of commitments and the burden of the funds allocated. The Chief of Defence also states that stock inventory has now been established and that the material has been spoken by the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. Stock records have been ordered to be established also at the other foreign units and it has been notified that the stock should be counted. I would also like to stress that the main weight of the material abroad is in daily use by fulfilling the operational tasks of each department. The fact that the material is not properly documented does not mean that the material is out of control. That's an important difference. Measures have also been taken to correct the situation. It is also important to clarify, as the rapporteur said, that they are approx. 1000 debt collection agencies registered throughout the year are different from the debt collection agencies that were at the end of the year and which were significantly lower because there was a continuous work each month to get rid of the debt collection cases and simply to get them out. This means that there has been a positive trend in the number of debt collection cases throughout 2004 and that it was clarified at the end of the year. I would like to clarify one point where I think there is a slight misunderstanding in the setting, and it relates to the P-account system, which is closed. There is an arrangement in which there was an interim accounts, and the defence departments had different dates when accounting for a balance. That plan was terminated during 2004 and is different from the outstanding bills that the Defense had at the end of the year of SEK 190 million. kr. There are unfinished bills to the outside and are due to the fact that at the end of December you did not pay some bills. They thus remained in place until January, as well as some other enterprises and enterprises experience at the end of the year, although the aim is to leave that figure at a minimum and preferably in zero. But it's something other than the P account system. Finally, I would like to stress that the revision of the 2004 financial statements must be seen in the light of a new and comprehensive information package that has been made possible through the new wage and accounting system. This means in clear text that we can now detect errors and deficiencies that may have been in the accounts permanently, but that can only be detected now because we can reconcile the accounts. We can reconcile pay and accounts, and we can now, as the head of defense has explained, reconcile with pay. So technical improvements in a new accounting system also make it possible for the National Audit Office to impose stricter standards on defence than those previously provided because it is now capable of complying with the Financial Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e257	I have listened with interest to the debate, and I listened with particular interest to the rapporteur's first speech, which I think was exemplaryly balanced and nuanced, and so it was a good example of a critical approach in the true sense of the word. That is why I was a little surprised by the rapporteur's second statement, which unfortunately expressed a very widespread linguistic misunderstanding, namely that the word «criticism» means expressing dissatisfaction. The Greek word that lies at the bottom means to differentiate, to nuance, and it's something other than expressing dissatisfaction. That is why I think the case rapporteur should have stuck to his original approach and not approached what has been expressed by the three other parties on the opposition side in this debate, namely dissatisfaction. If the Riksrevision's work is to be useful both for the Grand Duchy as contracting entity and for the administration, then the assumption must be that one is willing to give all the aspects, including the aspects that indicate that we are on the right track, and that the control options have actually been significantly improved in relation to what they have been in the past, in relation to the assessment of the accounts of the Defence. Only in this way can the Storting exercise its function as a critical monitor of the administration and of the Minister. Then finally, I noticed with some wonder that the representative Carl I. Hagen made a delay in commenting on the matter that was discussed in the morning meeting. It's better late than never, of course, but I don't think it made any particular contribution to clarifying what the liability really is about in this context. Of course, there is full agreement in this Chamber that parliamentary responsibility is a single place, namely in the Council of State. Of course. But this does not prevent the management responsibility of political leadership, the Council of State, as well as the head of defence, who has the top responsibility for the military organisation, from being held responsible for ensuring that those with delegated responsibilities are held accountable when things go wrong. It is in my opinion to reflect on the issue when it is presented in such a way that the head of defence or the Council of State has tried to overturn their responsibility on others. It's a completely obvious misunderstanding. What they have done is to exercise their managerial responsibilities in the manner that management responsibility is to be exercised, while in reality there are the three opposition parties, who insist on hacking this over and over again, who will absolve those who are responsible for the entities that have been seriously over-exploited and exempt them from liability. It can't be the task of the Storting, because in reality, the Storting undermines the defense chief's ability to exercise the executive responsibility assigned to the defense chief.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e266	I take back everything I have said about not extending the debate. I don't give a shit about the theology professor when it comes to defining words and concepts. My understanding of the term 'criticism' is now my understanding of it. If it comes into conflict with the academic environment, I live with it. What is our role, and I tried to say, is to point out faults and shortcomings. I believe that when you say that our understanding and follow-up of the Riksrevision's comments are trendy, my opinion is that it is wrong. In my opinion, it is the faults and defects that may occur, the control function of this house takes hold. Then you can have a kind of debate about how society evolves in the different areas, in good and bad, of course, but I think the control function has this a little boring being. Then to the Minister of Defense. I see that this P-note is clear. What I tried to say, probably not very well-worded, was that the effect is the same because you now have over 190 million unpaid bills. kr not paid in the last year’s budget – it does not enter the last year’s accounts but is transferred to the next year’s accounts. Drown 190 million. kr that should have been charged in 2004 will now be charged to the 2005 accounts. Then, of course, I see that such a difficult business as the Defense will not be able to pay all their bills by the end of the year. That there will be bills here, I see too. But what is pointed out by the National Audit Office is that these were invoices due, not bills that fell into the mailbox immediately before you started celebrating the New Year. There were bills that had been lying there for a while, and which were due for payment. Then I think you should have managed to get away from it, and I see this in the same way as the system of P-note, that you're transferring the expenses to next year in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 4 and 5 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 2896]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e309	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the State Council. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e318	If there's any comfort, this is probably the last time I'm on this pulpit, and there's going to be a little bit of a lot today. These cases were also raised during the examination of case No. 1 here in Stortinget today. Defence has been under considerable change for a very long time. One of the practical consequences of this was that properties were released. Construction and installations were left behind, and the defense no longer needed them. Thus, the only logical consequence of this was that they were disposed of. This work was started, and it was given clear guidance on how this disposal was to be done. It was about a lot of properties. It was about big, and it was about small properties. We're now dealing with two things, one of which is Innst. S. No 251, takes into account the National Audit Office's review of the disposal of property, construction and civil engineering in the Defence, while the other, Inner. S. No 275. Takes a special sale, Lista Air Station. The National Audit Office found that 60 properties were sold without a charge. However, the Ministry of Defence has interpreted the points of the disposal instructions. 3.3 in such a way that alternative solutions, other than those of the authorised valuer, can be chosen when disposals take place or are carried out through real estate agents and the usual industry procedure, as it is called. The National Audit Service maintains that the section of the instructions. 3.3 if sales through real estate agents do not provide for any exception to the provision for keeping a valuation rate. At the end of May, there was an exchange of letters between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Modernisation on the understanding of this provision. The Ministry of Modernization agrees with the Ministry of Defence's interpretation, as far as I can understand it. Right and Christian People's Party says in a note: ‘In the case of an interpretation of the country’s disposal instructions, these members consider that significant emphasis needs to be placed on the ministry that manages the interpretation of the State instruction. These members therefore consider it appropriate that the Riksrevision should obtain the interpretation of the department concerned when the instructions of the State are referred to in administrative audits.’;» To this I would like to say two things: firstly, I don't think the Stortinge is going to go into anything about how the Riksrevision is going to carry out its audit, and secondly, the Riksrevision had obtained the Ministry of Modernization's interpretation of the provision. The National Audit Office wrote to the Ministry of Modernisation – and sent a copy to the Committee of Inquiry – the following: ‘In Document No 3:9 has been the basis of the Court of Auditors. 3.2 in instructions on the disposal of State property, etc. [[disposal directive]] regulates exhaustively when valuation rates are to be observed in the sale of State property, as set out below. the notes on the provisions of Chapter 3 of the instructions. Such an understanding has also been agreed upon in communication with the regulatory manager in the course of the procedure. Statsbyggen has also expressed a similar understanding towards the Riksrevision.’ The matter thus becomes a little strange. During his work on the case, the National Audit Office receives an interpretation from the Ministry of Modernisation, an interpretation that is also supported by State Building. Following a request from the Ministry of Defence at the end of May, as Stortinget has finished dealing with the matter, a different interpretation is made, in line with the views of the Ministry of Defence. It may be as it pleases, but neither the Stortinget, the government, nor the state councils can live by instructions that can be interpreted in different directions. Midtåsen 30 was sold for 22 million. kr in the case of direct sales. Direct sales can only take place when the property has a small value or only a small number of buyers are involved. Good evidence is required for these conditions to be present. There is no evidence in this case and the sale of Midtåsen 30 is subject to a complaint to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, claiming that sales were made at a sub-price. The list air station was also one of the properties to be disposed of. It has to be able to easily be characterised by the large properties, with an area of approx. 5000 decks and a building mass of approx. 28 000 m2. The municipality of Farsund signaled an early interest in buying the property, but for its part could not accept the amount that was demanded, something over 200 million. kr. In consultations we had on this matter, it was claimed that the municipality of Farsund should have understood that this amount was completely unrealistic. The municipality of Farsund did not understand this, and a particular reason why they did not understand was that in a letter the State Secretary in question strongly concluded that the amount was correct according to the value of the property. Later rates at several lower amounts were never made known to the municipality of Farsund. It was also not aware that there were subsequent negotiations on sales based on a tariff of 11 million. kr. In this whole case you get the impression that some formalities have been added aside, based on some form of informal understanding. The property is not offered for sale, and this is due to the fact that it was generally known to be sold. The municipality was not invited to new conversations when new tariff documents were available, because it was thought that if the municipality was interested, it would contact them. The municipality would have done the same, I think, if you had been aware that you were now prepared to negotiate at a price of 11 million. kr and not 200 mill. kr. It was negotiated with two interested parties who together would purchase the property if agreement was reached. There are no minutes from these debates. The 11-million-dollar fare. kr was negotiable, in the sense that it was subtracted 7.5 million. kr from this amount for fire protection for parts of the building stock. There were no orders from the fire authorities to do this, but there is an understanding of the Council of State's argument that if fire safety is necessary, it is the responsibility of the owner to do so, regardless of whether there is any requirement. On the other hand, we have to understand that the rate of 11 million. kr had ensured that there was actually a need for fire safety for 7.5 million. kr. These 7.5 million. The NOK was not insured in any way, so the purchaser got these SEK 7.5 million. kr. In addition, 14.4 million. kr for the necessary upgrading of the property. Not by any of these amounts was it ensured that they were actually going for the purpose. One year after the sale, this was tried to correct, but when we read the annual report from Lista Flypark AS, which is the buyer, to the Brønnøsund Registers, we see that they consider these amounts to be free of charge. The situation after this is that the buyer should have 14.4 million. NOK plus SEK 7.5 million. NOK 21,9 million. kr, minus what may have been invested in the development of this property. As far as the Committee is aware, there have been no improvements or development of the property for anything near this amount. There are many properties sold from the Defense, and there are many left. When the Storting today probably agrees that sales to private buyers must be approved by the King of the Council of State, the Prime Minister has said that he will comply, but he has added that this will be a considerably heavier process. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence has estimated the delay in the process to approx. three months. For my part, I have no experience of working in a department or government council, but I am amazed at a matter that has been dealt with in an underlying administration, to be dealt with three months in the department before a government note can be made about it. In that case, it must mean that the Government or Department has very little confidence in this underlying establishment. The size is not happy to give provisions that directly affect the way the government operates and that even make the process heavier – because it is quite obvious that this will do so. But at the same time, we have to understand that the experience we now have makes the Storting feel the need for political involvement at the end of these sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e373	Following the report of the Frøiland Committee, we discussed new laws and instructions for the National Audit Office. Then, with the agreement of the Workers' Party, the Committee stated that: ‘The Committee would also stress that there is a distinction between the objectives set by the Storting and those set by the Administration. The Committee points out that the purpose of the management audit is to identify whether the decisions and assumptions of the Storting are met.’.» Further: ‘The follow-up by the Court of Auditors to the management’s own objectives, legislation that the management itself has established and assessments of the appropriateness of management tools and instruments should therefore be linked to the decisions and assumptions of the Storting.’.» I would like to ask whether this is a principle attitude and a view that the Workers' Party still stands for, in the light of the representative that Mr. Engretsen raised on the interpretation of the disposal directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e388	Yes, I can confirm that this is the principle view of the Workers' Party. But it's not that you can have rules and systems out in the administration that's being broken. When this is systematically broken over time, and you also see that the Storting's assumptions in this case are broken, it is clear that the Storting will have to react.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e393	When the Stoltenberg government submitted a proposal for a long-term defence plan for 2002–05, she assumed that the sale of property would go roughly to zero, because of tidy osbs. would be significant. If each individual hall is to be approved by the King in the Council of State, as the Labour Party is now proposing, and 400-500 halls are to be treated in this way, it would take some time. Does the Labour Party now see it so that the result can actually be a long-term idea, that one can actually go to zero because such a treatment will have a negative effect, so people will refuse to be current buyers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e398	Firstly, I believe that the Council of State and the Council of State will do everything in their power to ensure that this is done as quickly and effectively as possible once the Storting has made such a decision, if the Storing does. That is why I do not believe that this delay will be all over the world. I have little faith that it's about three months, as expressed here. I think that's very far from the actual ratio. The question of whether this would lead to some withdrawing and not being present as buyers, I do not understand the background. The fact that the government ultimately clubs a sale, I cannot understand would make it less attractive to go into this as a buyer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e405	I definitely believe that the representative, Mr. Engretsen, was injured in order to misunderstand what the representative, Mr. Oktay Dahl, actually asked. With regard to what we agreed on in the examination of the new law and instructions for the Riksaudition – I remember very well, because I was the case rapporteur myself – there is no doubt that guidelines, instructions and objectives laid down by the administration itself, which are not an expression of Storting’s decision and intention, should not be subject to the administrative audit of the Riksaudition. That's where the National Auditor's office is supposed to stay away. The whole case and much of the criticism in the case concerning the disposal of construction and property is based on how the disposal instruction is to be understood. The National Audit should have examined matters more thoroughly here at a much earlier time than as late as it was actually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e410	Firstly, the Riksrevision did not investigate this late. This was part of the work that the Riksrevision did when they carried out the revision of this. It is true that when faults and deficiencies occur in the administration, and when internal rules are also violated in the administration, the National Audit Office will, of course, grasp them and point to them. It is Stortinget who in turn has to make the final assessment of how to focus on these things. The majority have given some emphasis to this matter. The same is true of Anxiety itself and his party. They have put down a considerable effort to respond to these things instead of rejecting it as irrelevant, which should have been based on the reasoning that Engeset now led.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e419	The size decided in 1994 to drop the list of airstations from 1996. Due to major challenges and costs of conversion from military to civil industry, in 1995 the Grand Duchy approved a conversion period of up to 10 years and that of 50 million. kr was used for the purpose. Most of the property, approx. 70 pst., and usually called the interior fillet of the property, were leased early in 1996 to Lista Airport AS, also known as LILAS, which also received an option to purchase the entire airport. This was at a time – as I can remember – when the current prime minister of big business, Jørgen Kosmo, was Minister of Defence. When the property was sold in 2002, LILAS did not want to use it or its right of pre-emption. The air station was sold to Lista Flypark AS in 2002 for 3.5 million. kr. Nothing is worth more than someone is willing to pay. There is something in the saying that money saved is money earned. It has emerged from the debate earlier today that 5-6 million. kr in operating expenditure each year in the future has been saved from the sale. When the property depended on a number of claims and obligations that the Defense itself had to pay if the Defense itself would continue to sit with the property, it is in my opinion quite straightforward that the buyer received a compensation of 14.5 million. kr to enter and take over those liabilities. During the examination of the case by the Control and Constitutional Committee, we also included the waste directive. It is not surprising that the Riksrevision confirms the information provided by the Minister of Defence in its letter of 22 November 2004 that the waste directive was broken on two points during that sale. First of all, the property should have been advertised, and there should also have been a new rate that included all economic conditions. Yes, I think all the parties today would have been the best. So a few words about the role of the municipalities of Farsund. The National Audit Office questions whether the cooperation with the municipality of Farsund has been ensured as provided for by the Stortinget. Well, the municipality of Farsund has had a variety of positions and locations. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 13 September 2002, it was stated that the news of the sale of Lista airstation is also well received by Farsund rapporteur Ove Rollestad: «These are companies with a lot of experience and capital in their backs. If someone really wants to succeed in the list, it has to be the actor of this type. We're very excited, and we're looking forward to our cooperation," says Rollestad." In the autumn of 2003 there were municipal elections, and the municipality of Farsund got a new rapporteur. So this rapporteur has a brother who is a shareholder and chairman of – yes, exactly, LILAS. I quote further from the Farsund Newspaper in the lead position immediately after the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee had consulted: ‘Hatiness was another theme during the consultation in Stortinget. There is no doubt that the rapporteur, Mr Brøvig, is moving in a frontier country when she represents the municipality of Farsund at a hearing and is cut off from commenting on matters relating to LILAS where her brother is a shareholder and chairman.» The commercial company of the municipality of Farsund, which was referred to by the rapporteur in the hearing as an independent business company, also had a central place in the hearing. The daily manager of the semi-commune Farsund Näringsgesellschaft, Hans-Egill Berven, has played a central role in the process. In this business company, the municipality contributes 50-70 pst. of the operating resources of the company and the rapporteur is the Vice-Chairman of the Management Board. The municipality is the main shareholder. So so very independent is probably not this business when it comes to the problem. The municipality of Farsund has presented to the committee, both orally and in writing, that they believe that they have led the way. That's possible, but I mean in that case there's every reason to ask the question: Yes, well, but in the case of who? Farsund's newspaper has at all had many good reports and editorials that are worth a closer study. In the same executive article on 11 May, the paper also writes: ‘There is also reason to ask questions about the role of food manager Hans-Egill Berven. Although he is not employed in the municipality of Farsund, he is employed in a company where the municipality is the main shareholder. How he would serve the interests of the municipality while he was hired as a consultant for Defence Building, which appeared more and more to be the counterpart of the municipalities, we can all see in the gruesome light of the postwar clock, must become an impossible task." – Yes, this was basically quite well written.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e451	Such processes are complicated and require a lot of many – I am absolutely convinced of that. But I think it should be stated that the municipality of Farsund should have been contacted and should have been informed that it could now be negotiated for a completely different price. I think it's very hard to get around this. What I actually asked for lines is the buyers. I guess it's right that you get someone willing to pay in the market. The list Flypark was willing to pay 3.5 million. And then they would have $7.5 million. kr for fire safety and 14,4 mill. kr to various investments in the property. The representative Engeset says they took over the defence obligations on this property. Could it be a good idea to clarify to me what obligations were assumed, and in what way are these obligations guaranteed and laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e458	I don't think there's any doubt that many actors in this case might later want to have done some things differently. In particular, the Minister of Defence has also stated in consultation with the Committee that it would have been beneficial that Defence Building had shown a more proactive role in relation to the contact with the municipality of Farsund. What was one of my points in my post was to point to a number of factors that might have helped those who negotiated the agreement in relation to the sale of the List, probably had a certain reason to believe that some of the contact with the municipality of Farsund had been maintained, given that everyone had to understand was the head of Farsund's own business, so actively involved in the process. That's probably some of the explanation that you might have thought about something that wasn't part of the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e465	I am pleased that the representative Engeset admitted/made self-criticism that there has actually been a breach of the disposal directive. I assume he did it on behalf of the Government. Nevertheless, I am quite amazed at his post. At least in my ears, it almost sounds like a trivialization of what has happened. I must also say that I am a little surprised by the representative Engeset. When, after examining the matter, the Riksrevision clearly points out serious errors, it may not be possible for the Vice-Chair of the Control Committee to believe that the Storting should look through its fingers. That is why my question to the representative Engeset is: does he not think that we should ignore the climactic criticism that the Riksrevision has made? The size must act in relation to it, must it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e472	No, we're not going to look through the criticism of the Riksrevision in any way. Neither have we. There are few things we have dealt with as thoroughly and conscientiously as this one. But I have to say that I feel that in this case too, there is something in the emphasis and presentation of the opposition that tells me that there is a little bit of party politics in the matter, where you are not able to see contexts that should be obviously important for the whole of the matter. I was actually very clear in my post – in fact at the top of page 2 of an article on almost four pages – that there were serious breaches of the disposal instructions on two points. This was also something the Minister of Defence informed the Committee long before the majority in the Committee found out that they would open this up as a formal matter. So in that sense, there is no reason to try to present it as if we are not taking this matter seriously, but we think it is good to get the whole thing out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e477	It was the Storting's explicit premise when we dealt with Lista cases early in the 1990s that the so-called development option should be taken into account. The representative Engeset went very far in criticising the municipality, but he did not answer the representative’s questions about what kind of development had taken place in the area. I would like to quote from the Internal Audit Report to Defence Building, where it says: «After the company was formed and registered, it was found that only NOK 100000 has been injected into the share capital. These are the minimum requirements of the law. This may indicate that the company did not have large plans for the area.» Furthermore, it states that the provisional annual accounts for 2003 show that: ‘Lista Flypark has not yet started implementing the obligations for which financial compensation has been granted. There's a deficit of $1.7 million. kr, and they operate their entire business on the funds transferred from the country». I repeat the question put by the representative Kjell Engretsen: What development can Engretsen point to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e494	That line I think the representative Valle could have saved herself if she had followed the whole debate earlier today. Then the representative Dahl made a very good contribution, explaining what progress has actually been made on the list. But I can repeat it, because the representative went past Valle's house. The Farsunds Avis also states that: ‘The daily manager of Lista Flypark AS, Odd Skumsrud, annoys everyone who has recently stated that nothing is happening within the fences of the former listed air station. – There's a lot going on here, he claims.” In addition, it says: ‘Scotch has coatings to claim it as well. He expects to be able to sum up the current operating year with 6000 guest days for the accommodation part of the company. Next year it'll be even better. We have already booked 5,000 guest housedays” Yeah, it's going to happen a lot. But it was perhaps okay that it was asked, so we got this good point repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e511	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e514	First, a comment on Martin Engeset's power-salve to the Riksrevision, who did his job: that the Riksrevision should stay away when it comes to following instructions and regulations made by the administration itself. Everything made by the administration itself is based also on things that can be traced back to landfill treatment, and during the administrative audit, of course, the Riksaudition has both the duty and the right to point out deficiencies that can be found, or bad organisation, bad instructions and bad rules in any administration — if that is the Riksaudition conclusion after carrying out the administrative audit. I would therefore say that it is entirely wrong to try to impose any restrictions on the Riksrevision. It's actually the Riksrevision's duty and the right to assert their opinion, even when they really disagree with the Storting, at least as I see it. It shall be an independent and independent national audit. There is no contradiction between the quote you tried to make, from the setting behind the Frøiland Committee report. I also fully agree with what the rapporteur has said about what is now going to happen with the disposal instructions, after there have been meetings and the Riksrevision has sent a letter of this to the Ministry of Modernisation. It is a very central job for the National Audit Office to ensure that all rules, instructions, arrangements and procedures are followed regardless of who created them. If the procedures themselves prove inappropriate or unwise, it shall also be pointed out. It has been argued that the proposal for a decision restricting the department's right to settle cases would lead to a delay. I think it's really pretty amazing that you say it will take three months from the case to the department, until it's done. Then I agree with the Engretsen that it must mean that you have now really found out that the basis of the case developed by Defence Building is so bad that you can't just walk on it. If you've been aware of it, why in the world hasn't you been more proactive in the past? If you were familiar with this right away, and you say that it will take three months to check if the preparation of the defence building case had been good enough, it says a lot about the lack of proactive role on the part of the department. If it turns out that this reduces the income side of the budget, of which Modulf Auchan was busy, and which I understand is that Oddvard Nilsen has tried to assert outwards, it is only to come to the Stortingen with changes in the income chapter of the Defence under the ordinary regrouping proposition in November. It has nothing to say on the expenditure side. Let me also mention that this is really a great thing. First, it was estimated, calculated or estimated at a sum of 200 million. kr for Lista. So that ends with someone taking over the list, plus 11 million. kr. It bears witness to an absolutely amazing thing. I fully agree with Martin Engeset, who said that nothing is worth more than anyone's willing to city. But it's on the assumption that everyone knows what's for sale, what's about in the cards, and that there's an announcement text that says something about all the obligations, all the other bonds, etc., so that you have something to do with. But here it's clear that you kept things hidden, and maybe you just let one buyer and no one else know that you were willing to give away Lista, plus 11 million. NOK, for some liabilities. As far as I have understood, the head of the municipality's food department was told not to inform the municipality of what happened. That is exactly proof of some serious misconceptions, as has been pointed out. That the alarm bells did not ring when you went from 200 million. NOK to give it away, plus 11 million. Kr, is clearly very critical. That is why we are also co-sponsors with regard to the discharge instructions, in order to limit the powers of the department. The Ministry has shown that they have not done a good enough job in the past, have not been proactive, and now admits themselves that they need three months to prepare a matter that comes to the Department of Defence Building, before it can go to the King of State Council. It is then clear that the department does not have sufficient quality to finalise these cases. Then we get to hope that other members of the government will ensure that there is a more sound procedure and decision than the Minister of Defence has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e532	The President and other speakers have done a very good job on what this matter is about. I'm just going to elaborate on some of that. I just want to say to the representative Wohnning that when you come up with criticism, it is not the dissatisfaction. However, points made by Stortinget are the basis for control and improvement. When the issue of the sale of the list became publicly known through Farsund's newspaper and questions to the Council of State, an internal audit and investigation was started in Defence Building. The internal audit came up with the same results as the Riksaudition carried out afterwards. I would like to quote from the Internal Audit Report, because I believe it supports the results achieved by the Riksaudition and the criticisms made by the majority of the population. On ‘Declaration of State needs for buildings/properties’, it is said: ‘In the light of the disposal instructions, a request shall be made before disposal to the departments, the county concerned, State Building and the Directorate of Nature Management as to whether the property is necessary by the State. The need for both the Directorate of Nature Management and the Air Navigation Agency was ignored’. If ‘Market price — Value rate — Sales price’ it is called: ‘There has been no satisfactory basis for rejecting the maximum rate of VAT. The sum of sales has not been consistent with market value and the deviation from market value may be significant.» Whether the ‘Form requirement notice’ is as follows: ‘The rate of the price was not announced to potential buyers. It may therefore be unclear whether the market has had satisfactory information on what has been available for sale and potential buyers may have been absent from the sales process.» The term ‘sales contract’ is replaced by the following: ‘The buyer was established as a limited liability company after the performance of the purchase contract and acquisition. The share capital is at the minimum legal amount. FBTSV does not appear to have had sufficient knowledge of the buyer at the time of the contract. A special contract has been used, the importance of which is set out in the annexes. The obligations are general, not fixed in time, nor financially secure.’;» In retrospect, an external report was prepared by a law firm who had a framework agreement with Shifte Eiendom. That's okay. But there should have been some calls to the Council of State when she was briefed on the internal audit report – especially since it turns out that it is well on the way, in line with what the Riksrevision has come to, and especially since the relationship with the municipality of Farsund has obviously not been preserved, and that the Storting has explicitly taken the so-called development option into account. So we have two reports. It is the general report on the sale of property, construction and civil engineering in the Defence, and it is the report on the List. The two complement each other. Also, I will come back to what happened around the disposal instructions after the Riksrevision had completed its report. On the same day as the Riksrevision presented the last report, that is, on 27 May, after we were informed about it, a meeting was held between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Modernization for, as it appears, reinterpreting the so-called disposal file. On the basis of a reinterpretation, I ask myself whether the Ministry of Defence did not take the criticism seriously from the Riksrevision – despite the fact that the Council of State has previously assured us that the criticism and the outcome of the Riksrevision are taken seriously. I would like to stress that the reports from the Riksrevision must be seriously respected. So in this case, as it may seem, the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Ministry of Modernization, has gone to a kind of rematch. I think it's very unfortunate, to say it mildly. In general, the legitimacy of the administrative audits of the Riksaudition will easily be undermined by this kind of rematch, and I think that this very event underpins the need for the proposal that we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e572	Defence buildings have tried several times to create civil nutrition based on local halls. There has been a number of attempts for several years to create a development on the List after the size of the population, so that the state could withdraw as its owner. A selected autumn 2001 strategy to try to sell the property together, so that the state would not be relocated with parts of the property that were not sold and that would in the future withdraw operating and maintenance funds from the defence budget. The property was sold in autumn 2002 to the newly established company Lista Flypark AS for 3 1/2 million. kr, and all of the Defence’s obligations through the purchase contract and object lighting have been transferred to the buyer. For this, the buyer has a compensation of 14 and 1/2 million. NOK to cover the costs that would be incurred if the defence had still been held as the owner. From the individual cases to the general: Christian People's Party wants to show that Defence builders have sold around the next few years. 400 properties per year, and that the individual sale is not presented to the Ministry of Defence for approval. Both the long-term defence plan 2002–2005 and 2005–2008 as well as the 2005 Defence Budget have provided substantial funding through the release and disposal of defence courts. The majority believe that will be approved by the King of State Council. I see a number of serious problems with the proposal that the King should be approved by the Council of State, and note that such a decision would mean that the Storting really greatly reduces the progress in all cases of superfluous property, both because it would result in a delay due to the handling of the case in the Ministry of Defence and the review in the Government, and because one has to expect fewer people to be interested in city, when one knows that one has to wait for clarification in the Council of State. What we lose in the form of reduced or for its revenue must be cut off correspondingly elsewhere in the Defense. If we ignore the significant risk of getting a lower price on each individual sale item, and we have led a three-month delay in the remaining hall to private ones in 2005, this year's revenue will be reduced by an estimated up to 100 million. kr. The proposal is likely to lead to the failure of the Storting to achieve its agreed targets for the reduction of EBA for the period 2002-2005 and for the period 2005-2008, and thus to the danger that the Storting will not be able to implement its adopted budget for 2005. I think the consequence of this proposal is very unfortunate. I want to show you to -- for once -- sign the World Times. The leader of June 10 said the following: ‘We believe that the majority of the Enlarged Council’s control committee behaves very unjustly in relation to Minister of Defence Krohn Devold and the problems of the conversion of defence. The last thing is that the opposition has now decided to deprive the Council of the power to sell redundant defence property. This authority shall instead be transferred to the King of the Council of States. In our opinion, this is an early intervention in the Government's right to organise its own work." I also want to show you another section of the same leader: ‘The proposals of the majority in this matter are based on mistrust of the Minister of Defence. But instead of promoting a direct mistrust proposal, you go hookways to demonstrate dissatisfaction. The majority of the population actually demonstrate that if the proposal is adopted, it is its own renunciation. It may help to erode the task of Storting to control the Government.’ In several cases, representatives of the opposition have used harsh words, but there is no mistrust proposal. The word loses its power. Does it mean that a person should not care what they say, but stick to what they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e593	An important objective in the conversion of defence is to save operating costs by selling properties at the best price for the state, so that we can transfer funds to investment, operational activities and modernisation. For the current period, 2002–2005, the defence was to reduce the property stock by 2 million. m2. The reduction is on track and the target will be achieved during 2005. It saves the defense for large expenses and has in addition provided $1 billion in net income, which is ploughed directly back to the Defense as a consequence of the defence policy settlement between the Government and the Workers' Party. Since I became Minister of Defence, Defence Building has sold approx. 1,200 properties. We now sell almost 400 properties annually. When Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal presented the long-term plan for the current period, it was not expected in the economic calculations that the disposal of properties would provide net income to the Defense, because it was known that many of the properties had little, no or even negative value, and the costs of the sale were assumed to balance revenue approximately. However, through active sales, defence structures have achieved significantly better results than the conservative forecasts on which they were based — the net has, as I said, been around. One billion dollars, and that was a billion we didn't base when this four-year period began. This is clear because Defence Building has won a good price for sold properties. The National Auditor has not concluded for any sale that the State has lost money by the fact that Defence Building has achieved a price that is too low. However, the Riksrevision has asked questions about whether the correct price for some sales has been obtained, because the Defence Building does not have sufficient evidence that the correct price has actually been obtained. I am not satisfied that in some cases it has not been possible to document this, and I have explained to the National Audit Office what needs to be done to ensure it for the future. One sale where the documentation is too poor is the sale of Lista airstation. I informed the Control Committee last November that the disposal instructions had been broken on two points. The sales process, which had continued from 1996 to 2002, had many shortcomings. But the Riksrevision has not concluded for Lista that the State has lost money. However, they question the sale, legitimate question marks, because it cannot be demonstrated that the market price has been achieved. Defence construction took the matter into its own hands before the National Auditorate did so. The self-examination by defence builders resulted in the adoption of an 18-point plan, which the National Auditorate has noticed. The majority of the Committee proposes that the power of disposal to private persons be transferred from Defence Building to the King of State Council. This will mean that in the future, each of the 400 sales made in the year, which are currently handled by the department of Defence Building, will have to be dealt with in the Ministry of Defence before promotion of kgl. Resolution on the sale. There will be a clear more bureaucratic form of treatment, sales to private individuals could be significantly delayed and sales revenue to the Defence may as a consequence be reduced. Of course, that would be negative for the Defense. The review by the National Audit Office shows that in some areas it is necessary to improve the sales process in Defence Buildings, in particular related to the documentation of individual sales. It may be achieved independently of the proposed proposal. Of the 400 properties sold, in recent years approx. 90 pst. of them sold to private. That all these sales are to be dealt with in the Ministry of Defence before promotion of kgl. Of course, the resolution will red tape the sales process and result in less defence revenue from its sale. I also believe it is obvious that when one considers buying an apartment, if the option is to buy an apartment that is not required to be sent to the King's table, but from a completely different market actor, at least I as the buyer would prefer such an apartment and not an apartment that has this final approval. It is obvious that this would weaken the competitive moment of defence-building in the sales market for apartments. That being said, the Government will of course follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget, with the consequences it entails. Finally, a precision: the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence has not said that the procedure in the Department will take three months, but that if the proceedings take three months, an estimated 100 million will be lost. kr in relation to the expectations of revenue from the sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e628	I've talked to the Secretary of State, who says the same thing as the Council of State here, he's said if it takes three months. But that probably also means that he has made an assessment. I guess it's not a time that's taken out of the loose air. The sales, purchase price, great activity: Yes, the Storting is absolutely certain and fully agrees that there has been a lot of activity. But this is not about enough documentation, defects and defects in sales, and it's not just about the list, although the list might seem a little special. I want to ask the Council of State: the revenues are getting smaller, says the Council of State. Could it be that revenue is being reduced or deferred, and then you can only adjust the income estimate, the money comes in a little later, but at least they come in? And finally, what are the buyer’s obligations, and where are their obligations delineated?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e640	Let me first point out that when the majority of the Control Committee wants to take 400 sales a year that is not being dealt with today in the Ministry of Defence, into the Ministry of Defence, that must be because we are expected to have a real deal with them. And of course it'll take time. At the same time, I would like to add that yes, there are verified two clear defects in the sale of the Lista. It was supposed to have been published in the leaflet, and a new fare should have been taken. In the case of the obligations relating to the property, a number of these have been taken care of, as the Defence Building informed in the hearing, by the disclosure of the facts made in connection with the sale. But the most important thing is that there is now peace and quiet, so that you can start developing in the Lista area, in line with the current owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e649	To the last Council of State said: It would have been absolutely beneficial that these obligations had come about through the negotiations, and that it could also have been verifiable then. I am concerned about the small amount of activity that has been involved in the reinterpretation of the disposal instructions and the meeting activities that have been between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Modernisation, which the Riksrevision considers to be worth notifying the Storting about. Can the Council of State understand that this can also be seen as a signal that the Ministry of Defence does not take the criticism of breaches of the disposal directive, the sales instructions, as seriously as one would believe in the statements of the Council of State? And share that view that when this is determined at kgl. the resolution should also be converted by kgl. Resolution, so that the Greatness can verify it afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e656	At least I can fully agree with Mr Ågot Valle that there should be agreement on how the disposal directive can be interpreted. But it also makes sense that the Ministry of Defence needed to examine the view of the Ministry of Modernisation on the disposal file, because the Ministry of Modernisation is the department set up to manage the State's disposal instructions, and could thus also clarify what actually stands there. What is contained in the Disposal File is: ‘§ 3.3 ensures that the common approach in the industry is followed. This means, inter alia, that when selling through real estate agents, the price evaluation of the broker, as a derogation scheme, may be used where this is common practice, such as the sale of unit houses.» I don't think we agree on the interpretation here today, but we can certainly agree that we need to find a technical way of agreeing. And one suggestion is to specify that kgl. the resolution, because no one has an interest in the question being unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e666	When studying budgetary positions and decisions, it is partly right for the Council of State to say that if revenue is greater than budgeted, this can be transferred under the revenue authority to exceed any expenditure allocation. But I can't find anything with the opposite content. It has been claimed that if sales revenue goes below what is budgeted, it will go beyond the activities of the Defence Agency. Can the Council of State guide the Storting and say where in the formal decisions some of the expenditure appropriations are required to meet the revenue appropriations? So I can only find the opposite, in Decision V, where it says that revenue can be used, but there's nothing to say that less revenue by e.g. the sale of real estate would have any impact on the expenditure appropriations. I would like to ask the Council of State to give us some guidance on where there might be such a big decision, as Oddvard Nilsen in the media has claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e671	It is quite right, as the representative Carl I. Hagen points out, that the Ministry of Defence has had its own opportunity to use revenue from sales to activities in the defence business. It's an access that the Defense has had, to which there are no parallels in other parts of the departmental structure. It has just been done to stimulate the defence to free up land and to cope with less square feet of mass, because it is known that sales will generate revenue to strengthen the defence budget. When the revenue from the sale, which this year is estimated at approx. 400 million. kr, is expected to be reduced by decisions that are likely to be taken here in the Chamber, which makes the sales process more bureaucratic, the Stortinget, as Carl I. Hagen rightly pointed out, has the opportunity to come back in October with proposals for additional appropriations in connection with the regrouping proposal. But in the meantime, the defense has been insecure, and per. Today we do not have alternative means.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e684	I would like to ask the Council to document where it says something about the last thing she said, that it has some consequences. As a consequence, the Ministry announces in the regrouping proposal that an income chapter does not seem to be reached and that the Government therefore proposes to reduce the income chapter. There is no impact on the expenditure side — there is no further allocation to it. It is an adjustment to the revenue chapter of the State Fund, possibly accompanied by any other estimates in the State budget. And then it's up to the government to assess whether it's going to have any consequences. But there's no automation here. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that it is that if you receive less revenue on the sales chapters, there is no automatic way that it will have consequences for the same department's expenditure appropriations, which are given by the Storting, and which is only the Storting that can reduce in the event.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e691	In practice, any government will seek to balance revenue and expenditure. This means, of course, that if the Ministry of Defence's revenue is reduced, the same level of expenditure cannot be kept when, over the year, we try to balance these with each other if the defence budget is to balance revenue and expenditure together. But it's also quite right, as Carl I. Hagen says, any government can of course suggest that you deal with less income and still keep the same level of expenditure. However, I had believed that the Progress Party might focus a little more on the disadvantages of this proposal for private stakeholders who want to buy defence properties. Most defence properties are sold to private individuals. Most defence properties are sold through brokers at market prices. In this context, private buyers are being placed in a significantly worse situation than public ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e698	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e703	Everyone was given a book by Unni Lindell about children and what their view of politics and politicians was. Vegard, six years old, said this: Politicians look 'nearly normal. Especially from the side...’. Tone, seven years old, said, "The size is a place you have to be very quiet. Therefore, they use silencers.’» It may be political that some in the media are definitely not using silencers, but speaking out to criticise a situation where the sales of defence property by defence builders have given over DKK 1 billion in net income, i.e. One billion more than the size envisaged. 2 million m2 is sold, and I took for fun a small phone to a couple of neutral property management experts to form a picture of what the operation and maintenance of these 2 million m2 would have resulted in for the future of added consumption for the state. It wasn't exactly a small amount, to say it like this. When the state has earned DKK 1 billion more than intended, and saved an amount with many zeros in the sales process, it is understandable that both children and others under strong doubt find that politics and politicians look almost normal, at least from the side, when you compare these facts with the focus that has been in the public debate and here. The National Audit Office has done a very thorough job and has gone through a total of 556 disposal processes in 2002 and 2003, which has thus brought in, and saved the State for more than NOK 1 billion. The opposition's privilege is, of course, to intensify the criticism of the Riksaudition, but it becomes a little special in this case, given that the Riksaudition does not document a single example of the loss of money by the state, which in any case may be the number of days until the election day should call attention to more than particularly interested people. The main criticism of the Riksrevision is a lack of documentation, and it is pointed out that for 60 of the 455 sales examined there are old tariffs. However, after the disposal instructions, which we are discussing here, it is not clear what should be considered an obsolete tariff. But what is clear is that it is the department that interprets its own, that is. the State, instructions. In this context, we have suggested from the government parties that it may be natural that the Riksaudition should review the Committee's comments on new instructions for the Riksaudition once more. Anyone who has bought an apartment knows that it often works in practice to obtain a broker's valuation, and that it is based on both sales, meetings with the bank and refinancing. I actually have a better half that's done this during this afternoon. It illustrates some of the main points, and is some of the things that may have contributed to the entry of 1 billion dollars more than the size of the picture, namely that one has tried to use a common approach in the industry. Because it doesn't make sense to listen to professionals who have done it before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e720	There is reason to wonder about the link between the criticisms of the opposition and the remedies proposed to follow up the criticism. On the one hand, in the Lista case, you will be instructed that the State should buy back a property. There must be reason to wonder whether this is a very good starting point from the point of view of the seller, i.e. of the State, as regards the fulfilment of the Storting's own overall objectives, namely that it should be sold with the best possible result financially for the State, in particular when it is taken into account that in the Lista case it was already granted under another government a right of pre-emption for another operator which is valid for the following year and which will further contribute to a deterioration in the value of a market. It's hard to understand that this is an adequate cure. Even more difficult is to understand that the general measure of transferring the 400 cases per year to the King of State Council is an adequate remedy, well to note if it is the Storting's own overall objective to be on the ground. There has been an overall effort in the Norwegian state custom to reduce as much as possible the number of cases to be dealt with by the King in the State Council. An expansion of 400 new cases per year is entirely in conflict course with what has been a general objective. Bergen’s Official Journal wrote at the executive position on 10 June: ‘The last battle of the opposition, the requirement that the responsibility for the sale of property be taken from the Council of State, testifies to the fact that our parliamentaryism is not functioning at the moment.’ It's probably too strongly said by the editor. Parliamentaryism is probably working, but it works strangely in part. Because it only works when it's right. I have to say that I have difficulty in realizing that the precedent effect of the completely new grip, so far unknown in Norwegian state custom, to which they add up in this instruction, will be a good precedent for future big business. I think it's going to be standing as an unusually bad solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e729	I received a question from the representative in a reply earlier in the debate, which I did not have the right to answer because replies to replies are limited to 1 minute, and it depended on what obligations the new owner of the list has assumed through the agreement. The answer to that question is clear from the letter of the Council of State to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of 24 May, which clearly shows that there are four elements to the commitments made: fire safety at 7.5 million. kr, the LILAS agreement of 5,4 million. NOK 5,5 million infrastructure. kr and defects in 3,5 mill technical installations. kr. These are liabilities that the new owner has assumed through the sale from Defence Building. So some words related to this with the disposal instructions. I am pleased that this debate has made it clear that there is a certain need to clarify how the disposal directive should be understood. It can be an advantage for all parties. No one can be profited from a situation where the Defence Building, the National Audit Office, wholesalers or others give different content to the understanding of the waste directive. In the follow-up to that debate, at least there has been a positive finding that there is a clearer and more precise waste directive that is understood equally by all. The National Audit Office has placed considerable emphasis on the fact that defence construction has used some older tariffs in a number of cases. In my opinion, it should not be interesting for Stortinget whether older tariffs have been used, but whether the State has achieved the correct price. I do not see that the Riksrevision report shows that the State has lost money because of the use of older tariffs. It must be the prevailing market situation that determines whether a tariff is too old or not. If you have sold the owner-occupancy once for yourself, no one will waste money on getting a new fare if you already have a fare that reflects what you definitely think is the market situation for the time being. Finally, a little about this with the treatment in connection with the new law and instructions of the National Audit Office. Here, earlier in the debate, it was pointed out what an overall committee was behind. In that connection, Carl I. Hagen was injured to misunderstand. This was not a quote from the Frøiland Committee, but a quote from a committee comment from the Control and Constitutional Committee when new laws and instructions were adopted. And so here, there's a very clear distinction between Storting's decision and intentions and what the government's set rules are.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e740	I will not go into the formal aspects of this matter. Whether that is already said a lot today. I just want to see that the art of the afterwatch is not necessarily an art to be drawn with a broad brush. What I wanted to say today is that when I hear the debate, I ask myself if the root of evil may be something other than what you are really discussing. If it had been such that there had been a lot of positive business development and activity at Lista airstation – which in my opinion it has not done – the question of whether this matter had been discussed at all. There's a question you might want to ask yourself after the disposal of public properties and the assumptions that lie at the bottom -- the assumptions that local environments, which I know fairly well, might have known when you entered into these transactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e747	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e766	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e785	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2897]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e801	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e810	Proposals propose measures to prevent further damage to health and the environment caused by mercury in products, amalgam in tooth fillings and mercury emissions. In addition, measures are proposed to address the damage that has already occurred, in particular as a result of mercury from amalgam fillings. In particular, a proposal for a ban on the dental filling material amalgam and for the establishment of an adequate treatment offer for people with mercury-related diseases is promoted. Proposals also call for the strengthening of faculty competence and for the acquisition of protective equipment at dental offices to be included in the scheme. The tooth filling material amalgam has been controversial for many years, and the use of amalgam for tooth fillings is now fortunately greatly reduced, and soon history. This does not mean that problems should not be taken seriously. It is therefore positive to record that the Government has an offensive strategy to identify the effects of the use of mercury in products, including amalgam in tooth fillings, and that a number of measures are already in place. In a letter of 20 May 2005 from Minister of Health and Welfare Ansgar Gabrielsen, it is noted that the use of amalgam in tooth fillings was surveyed in November 2002. The survey showed that amalgam was already used in only 9 pst at that time. of the tooth fillings. The majority of the Committee find it very positive that amalgam as dental filling material is now being used to an increasing extent, especially in the case of children and young people. The letter from the Council of State states that the Directorate of Social and Health is taking any health damage caused by amalgam seriously. In 2003, new guidelines for the use of dental restoration materials were introduced, and the Government indicates that it will undertake a new survey in a few years to look at the effects of the 2003 new guidelines. The Adverse Reactions Group for Odontological Biomaterials, BVG, is an activity involving Adverse Reactions Registration, Patient Investigation, Exploratory Treatment, Information Activities, Professional Development and Research. One of the main tasks of the BVG is to investigate and evaluate patients with a wide range of health problems and symptoms related to dental filling materials. BVG has both medical and odontological competence and cooperates with relevant professional environments at the University Hospital Haukeland. In 2004 and 2005, the BVG is carrying out an evaluation involving several aspects. In his letter of 20 May, the Council of State indicates that he will return to the question of treatment provision for people with mercury-related diseases once the department has assessed the evaluation and this has been consulted. The majority of the Committee has also noted that in April of this year an action plan was presented by the Ministry of the Environment with an impact on amalgam as a tooth filling material and on the release of mercury into the wild. The majority of the Committee agrees that the main measures to limit mercury from amalgam fillings as an environmental poison are to limit mercury emissions from dental clinics and from crematories. The majority therefore welcome the fact that during 2005 an assessment will be made of whether a ban on mercury is to be introduced in products, with possible exceptions for particularly important uses. In doing so, the Ministry of the Environment has asked State pollution control to assess the design of a ban on mercury in products by 1 November 2005. The majority are aware that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has asked the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work, STAMI, to present a report by 1 August 2005 clarifying the possibilities and appropriateness of further research on the health effects of mercury exposure in dental services. In this context, other relevant research carried out within and outside the country shall also be described and highlighted. The majority believe that a ban on the use of amalgam as dental filling material, as requested by the proposers, may rest until the STAMI report is available and the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Protection Agency have completed their work and carried out their assessments. When the government parties and the Progress Party do not support the proposal of the minority, this means that we assume that the Government and the Council of State will come back and properly inform the Storting, when necessary evidence is available. The majority, consisting of all lots other than the Centre Party, appears to attach the document and the notes to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e843	It is with a little mixed feelings that I take the floor in this matter, perhaps a little because it is the last matter that we have to deal with from the Committee, but also because I feel reasonable alone in this matter with regard to this proposal and the committee's consideration that the proposal has been submitted to. This is not a new matter, it is the former representatives of big business who have addressed this. In 1997, I, together with the representative Magnar Sortåslökken, from SV, and the representative Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, from the Christian People's Party, promoted a proposal that had largely the same arrangements as the proposal we are discussing today. As you can say, this has not gone forward, but it has also become a case where it has fallen from a part that was engaged in the same problem. I am aware of what the Council of State has said in its letter to the Committee of 20 May, and that there is a lot less use of amalgam today than it was before. That's good, but we're still getting messages that amalgam is used, and it's being used where users or their relatives don't want to use it. I am pleased that the Odontological Biomaterials Adverse Reaction Group, BVG, is now to be evaluated and that one should also carry out an examination of the patient experience in the Adverse Reaction Group. I am not so pleased that the Swedish Institute for the Safety and Health at Work, STAMI, has been commissioned to submit a report to clarify the possibilities and appropriateness of further research on the health effects of mercury exposure in dental care. It's on the basis of what's happened in the last few days as well, and the exposure STAMI has, unfortunately, is very colored from the previous point of view that STAMI has had, that one can put some question mark on the stability of that instance. I also think it will come to light, among other things. in documents written by STAMI, which are consultation opinions on guidelines for the use of dental restoration materials, where STAMI is closest to polishing against the Directorate: ‘However, despite the political nature of the document, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work will point to certain aspects of the guidelines presented and to the conditions of the process underlying the recommendations made.’ I think this is polemizing, and I also think that this further development comes up with a position from STAMI that is reasonably eye-catching. I quote again from this document: «Toxicologically, it is interesting to note that we have experience with amalgam as a dental restoration material without any evidence of health damage either in the individual patient or in the case of environmental contamination, whereas «the development of new materials is so fast that there is little time to reap clinical experience with one material before a supposedly better version is available». Lack of toxicological knowledge and limited observation time can be easily misinterpreted as regards the long-term effects of low dose exposure. This is really a toxicological problem that the Social and Health Directorate should be interested in.’ I agree, and I have also said something about that in the setting and in the comments that I have there. But I think it is almost alarming that STAMI can say that there has been no evidence of environmental pollution, nor of health damage. It makes me hope that the Council of State might see something more about other investigative institutions than what has been done now. Among other things, I believe that there have been signals from the University of Bergen, from Professor Bente Moen, which means that they should also be allowed to give their opinion on this problem, and be meaningful, before concluding after 1 August this year. It is Professor Bente Moen who has pointed out that, for example, dental workers have detectable health damage likely to be related to mercury and amalgam and their children are also suffering from similar health damage. In 5 minutes I can't explain this, but we have investigations, among other things. from the United States of America which is relevant in that context. We are promoting three proposals alone. One is that we need to have clearer guidelines for reorganisation and an authorisation system for such work and competence. The second is that we are asking for a comprehensive monitoring of health problems that amalgam may have inflicted on patients and dental professionals. The third is that this tooth filling material is to be prohibited. I address these three proposals, as well as the proposal that the Central Party is promoting together with the Workers' Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e871	The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, has drawn up the proposals he referred to. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e876	It's not supposed to be a meeting plague in this maybe the last meeting where we're dealing with a matter from the committee. But I have to admit that I am somewhat surprised that the Minister of Health does not take the floor, especially on the basis of the statements I made when it came to STAMI. I had hoped that the department had an opinion on these points of view, and also a professionalism in relation to STAMI and the University of Bergen. I think there's a deafening silence here today from the other parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e883	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 will be treated together. [[Food, see page 2897]] – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e912	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e921	It is, of course, very satisfactory that agreement was reached in the agricultural sector this year. A broad majority, all parties other than the Progress Party, align themselves with the budgetary implications of the Agreement and the implementation of the measures resulting from the Agreement. Thus, the parties have in fact succeeded in reaching an agreement in all settlements under the Bondevik II Government. Farmers receive an increase in the income frame of 450 million. kr. It corresponds to an income growth of about 5 pst. or approx. NOK 7 000 per year. annual work. Government budget appropriations are increased by 190 million. NOK, while target prices are increased by 260 million. kr. Unfortunately, overproduction is moving in a negative direction. In the current contract year, this has given farmers a gross price loss estimated at up to 600 million. kr. It is therefore important to give priority to achieving a better balance in the agricultural product market. The progress party is the only party that does not support the setting. The Progress Party has a wide range of specific comments and proposals reflecting the views of the Party. The numbering material of the budget item shows that there has been a worrying income development in agriculture. I am therefore pleased that the negotiations resulted in a result that gives farmers an increase in income above the other comparable group. And let me add: I think this was absolutely necessary now. The attitude shows that there is a broad majority behind the desire to provide farmers with incomes in line with other workers. Agriculture plays an essential role in ensuring living areas and scattered settlements, and we want decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use both for the sake of preparedness and for the need for safe food. At the same time, we see that maintaining such important objectives also requires willingness to make the necessary adjustments and adjustments. This can be painful. But the painful thing – as in other areas of life – can be necessary to go through in order to create healthy growth. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party point to this in their comments, without making it clear whether they also share the Government's analysis of the implemented structural changes. I agree that stability and consolidation may now be needed after many and extensive structural changes in agriculture in recent years. It is not difficult to understand the heartache of farmers and farmers’ organisations who now strongly want a breathing room from conversions that are obviously demanding for the industry, and not least for the individual farmer who has to deal with ever new operating conditions. There is therefore every reason to listen to industry signals at this point. Nevertheless, it is not possible to reach a situation where a more or less can settle down on what has been implemented. It's probably an intrusive, but it's just as full of a dangerous thought. Norway needs to adapt to changing market conditions, which may not primarily be due to domestic circumstances, but which are most likely to be a consequence of international agreements on which we are obliged. It's to hope that we can avoid the rough throws and the most painful grips. Agriculture needs, in line with other industries, the greatest possible predictability and stability. This is also important for the recruitment of the industry. Unfortunately, there are many examples of young people interested in the agricultural industry being considered when strong conversions create uncertainty about the future of Norwegian farmers. Therefore, positive instruments are also important, as agreed in this year’s agreement. New technologies and new market opportunities can also inspire creative farmers to create new opportunities and to provide consumers with quality products at competitive prices. A broad majority indicates that market regulation systems are of great importance both for stabilising prices and for enabling both large and small producers to have satisfactory access to the market. Nevertheless, a good number of regional egg producers rely on a well-functioning market apparatus. I am therefore pleased that an agreement was reached to keep the market organisation for eggs. It ensures the production of eggs in districts, and not least for small and medium-sized producers. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are asking for a review of the impact by removing the market regulation of poultry. I take it as a matter of course that the department will follow the development of the poultry market when the regulation is repealed, and will make a more detailed assessment when one has gained sufficient experience with the new scheme. The centre party is solely concerned with a proposal to cut off the parties to the agricultural negotiations the possibility of agreeing on changes in market regulation without such changes being dealt with in advance here in the Stortinget. Since the proposal has been put forward with expressed concern at the lack of democratic legitimacy, I would, for my part, disagree with that point of view. Firstly, significant emphasis should be given when agreement is reached between the parties on such a change. Secondly, the Stortinget has the full opportunity to address such questions when the agreement is being discussed here in the Chamber. It is precisely this opportunity that the representative, Mr Enoksen, has now taken advantage of. However, the problem of the centre party is that they clearly disagree with what the parties have come up with. But that's another thing. On the other hand, I would like to take the opportunity to prevent a possible misunderstanding in relation to the assessments of market organisations more generally. Some have argued that the abolition of the market organisation for poultry is a kind of beginning of the reduction of the other agricultural market organisations. There's no reason to claim. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party clearly sees these market organisations as very important instruments for ensuring stability and predictability in the market, thus helping to maintain differentiated agriculture in all parts of the country. We believe that the market organizations that are now in place are necessary in order for the price development of agricultural products to be as provided for in the agricultural agreement. Document No 8:53 by Carl I. Hagen, Øystein Hedstrøm and Lodve Solholm, who are now dealing with the agricultural settlement, to establish an equivalent competitive relationship between the agricultural cooperative and other private actors in the food sector, the Stortinget addresses many of the same issues raised in the 2005 agricultural settlement decision. This private proposal was promoted in the wake of the so-called Tine case, in which the Progress Party called for a complete distinction between Tine Råvare and Tine Industrie. While the Progress Party considers such a distinction to be necessary in order to prevent any possibility of cross-subsidisation between the commodity market and the industrial market, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party shows that, from 1 January 2006, a standardised equity requirement for Tine is introduced. This will help ensure that all market players, including Tine, will have to pay equal prices for the raw material milk and thus ensure equivalent and fair competition. In addition, the Government has informed that a detailed assessment is to be made as to whether the accounting distinction between the raw material part and the industrial part is sufficient to ensure competition. The Progress Party shall promote a similar proposal for a legal and ownership distinction in the case of Valids. The other parties are united here against the proposals of the Progress Party. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that there should be equivalent and fair competition in the market for agricultural products. At the same time, however, a clear majority states that it is not appropriate to make drastic organisational changes which are not necessary for competition but which will only help to weaken the possibilities of maintaining robust and forward-looking agriculture across the country. I am therefore very pleased with this clarification behind the majority of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e949	For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that, in large parts of the country, agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment. We have a decentralised agricultural industry with a varied structure of use. It is an objective that we can as far as possible take care of the values that agriculture represents over our country. As the rapporteur said, this year there is also a negotiated agreement between the State, Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde- and Small User Teams. In the Labour Party, we are pleased that this is a negotiated result. There is no doubt that, in relation to the country’s opening offer, the outcome of the negotiations represents an improvement for agriculture. In the Labour Party, we aim to ensure that active farmers have income development and social conditions in line with other groups in society. There is, therefore, reason for concern that the basic material for agriculture shows a clearly weaker level of income development for the period 2002-2005 than the previous year’s agreement. If agriculture were to achieve income development in line with other groups through the agreements concluded, this would, in our view, lead to much stronger structural development. It's strong enough as it is. With the importance of agriculture, not only for food production but also for housing, travel and other commercial activities, there is reason to pay particular attention to the situation of rural areas. Not least one sees the need for a professional environment in the agricultural industry as well. Part of the focus has been on the co-production of milk. This applies both to the number that can be included and to the mileage of those that are involved in the co-operation. In the Workers' Party we take note that the legislation has become as it is in the agreement. If changes are desirable, I think it is right that this comes from agriculture itself. However, I am aware that some very small milk producers think the legislation is too tight. On the other hand, we see that some people who establish large units call it two co-operatives, but actually operate like one. We want the State's agricultural administration to have an alert eye on the problem. The Committee has said in the past that legislation needs to be a little flexible according to local circumstances, and there is reason to stress this again, especially when small business operators have problems. Some of these will probably see no other option than to stop in the industry. Otherwise, there is reason to stress that there is a great deal of tension in what the outcome of WTO negotiations is. In a separate note, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre stress that, among other things. the active use of the agricultural policy instruments will make use of the space provided by today's action and any new agreements. The Labour Party once again stresses that if the result is too dramatic for agriculture, we must take political responsibility so that agriculture itself does not have to find the answers, cf. My country's view of a commission of its own. I also want to follow up the comments of the Committee on organic farming. Here the work must continue, so that we reach the common goals we have. The fact that such a small proportion of organically produced agricultural products are marketed as organic to consumers worries us all. Some improvements have been made, including: in relation to the milk side, but for the credibility of organic production, it is important, as the agreement suggests, that priority is given to measures to improve this situation. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party also have their own comment where we point out the difficult economy of the Food Authority, which in turn has made control and approval of organic production difficult. I assume that the Council of State is cleaning this up, so this will not be an obstacle to achieving the objectives of organic production. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre also have their own comments on the market regulation system. These batches indicate that these schemes are an instrument in the main production sectors in order to manage a comprehensive agricultural policy. It is therefore important for us to look at the consequences of removing the market regulation for poultry. We saw what happened when the market regulation for reindeer meat was terminated. And it's not unreasonable to see what happens to poultry. We just have to realize that only these parties want to have such a review. But then we can be confident that the rapporteur pointed out that he too wanted to see what the result would be. In the case of the dairy sector, I refer to the comments made by the Workers' Party in the settings both to Document No. 8:53 and to St.meld. No 15 Competition policy. It has also been necessary for us to stress that the new market organisation for milk was adopted by the Government and introduced from 1 January 2004. We are not saying that the new market organisation would have looked like this if we had been in government. But there's another bowl. As an explanation of vote, we are voting against proposal No. 1 from the Centre Party and SV. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party are, as I said, pleased that an agricultural agreement has been negotiated, as has been the case in the past during this large-scale period. In the Labour Party, we are fully aware that there are demanding negotiations, when one knows that the State's offer can be adopted in the worst case here in the United Kingdom with the support of the Advance Party. I would like to pay tribute to the negotiators of the year for the fact that it was an agreement. We have no doubt that this is the best thing for Norwegian agriculture. I would also like to congratulate the Committee on Budgets on what has been done in the context of the revised budget. Not enough that they have decided that one should get back the average equation of 5 years at the time of logging, which is good. They have also unanimously decided to ask the Government to develop national strategies for increased deforestation. It is important to stress that agriculture and forestry in many contexts are the same. In many counties, one depends on gardening forests extracting timber, so that the value creation based on timber as a commodity can exist and develop further. Agriculture and forestry, as I said, represent many important jobs in districts that provide a basis for settlement. A good rural policy shall secure existing jobs and contribute to innovation and development. Both forestry and agriculture are important here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e989	The tradition faith we are dealing with today is a negotiated agreement between the state and the organizations. This has been the case all the years since the Co-operation Board has been responsible for this. The agreement has a framework of 450 million. kr. The agreements involve, inter alia: the target prices are increased by 260 million. and that the appropriations entered in the budget are capped. 1150 is increased by 190 million. kr in 2006. This is a basis for a 5 pst increase in agricultural income. The Parties note in the Final Protocol that agriculture may retain a substantial share of the productivity gains, as a majority of the Stortinget has previously stated. Higher volume of debt in agriculture underlines the importance of a policy that contributes to low interest rates. It is very important for agriculture, too, that we keep the economy in order. Agriculture will continue to be able to produce the common good that society needs. That is the main reason for the transfer level. Efficiency must be combined with new entrepreneurial developments in order to achieve the objective of living and active rural communities in the future. Agricultural production contributes to a number of other societal objectives and societal tasks in addition to food production itself. It can be summarised in the concept of multifunctional agriculture. It is therefore important that we have more objectives at the same time: strong and cost-effective volume production, opportunities for industrial development at the intersection of agriculture and culture, between agriculture and tourism, and between agriculture and care, conservation of the cultural landscape and niche production. In 2005, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food put forward a new strategy for industrial development: ‘Agriculture more than agriculture’. The strategy covers the areas of food, wood, bioenergy, travel and experience production. The value added programme for food production shall be further developed in order to make it one of several instruments for implementing the new strategy. The material of the budget item shows that land use is stable. Production volumes are stable or slightly increasing. This is how production has been over the last decades. We produce the same amount of food on the same area today as in 1980. Today, the production of 65,000 annual works is being carried out, while in 1980 135,000 annual works are being carried out. This is primarily a result of technological development, and it is a misguided development. There is a need for further structural improvements in order to reduce small-scale constraints and to facilitate competitive commodity prices. It will, together with other targeted instruments, provide the basis for a competitive food industry. Taxes are not negotiated in the agricultural settlement. Nevertheless, there is no need to hide that the introduction of the agricultural deduction in 2000 with a gradual expansion in the years up to 2003 has had a significant impact on the development of agricultural incomes. The processing and placing on the market of agricultural products is mainly outside the scope of the Agreement on Agriculture. Market regimes and framework trading conditions are of major importance for the food industry and for the placing on the market, and agricultural policy must focus on all aspects of the chain from land to table. The processing and trading stages are important both for employment and value creation and for farm income opportunities. The government wants real competition in the value chain to maintain production and value creation in Norway. Large parts of the food industry are based on Norwegian raw material, while increasingly exposed to international competition. The consideration of the development potential of the food industry, of consumer interests and of the basis for agricultural provision make it important to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. Among other things, relative developments in food prices in Norway compared to neighbouring countries are significant. We see that it's increased, but despite that, the border trade has been reduced, and it's mainly due to the economic incentives given by a change in the dollar rate. According to the Consumer Survey of the Statistical Centre, the average household uses 10.3 pst. for food. That's a situation I'm satisfied with. The Norwegian food industry is increasingly exposed to international competition through imports, in particular processed agricultural products covered by the commodity price compensation scheme, the so-called RAC scheme. For the Norwegian food industry, maintaining its market share is a challenge. It will also be important for the subcontractors of the RAC industry, the primary producers and the processing industry. About 13 pst. Norwegian milk production goes to the RÅK industry. In order to maintain a competitive food industry, it is necessary to facilitate, through price developments, domestic and targeted instruments to ensure a competitive environment for industry. WTO negotiations are of major importance for Norwegian agriculture. With regard to market access, it is stated that customs duties should be reduced. For sensitive products, lower tariff reductions are possible, but quota increases are to be granted for all products. It is therefore important to negotiate which products should be defined as sensitive. The government has contributed to the area grant being moved from blue box to green box. That, I think, is an important step in ensuring that we continue to be able to take care of multifunctional agriculture. The framework conditions also provide for an agreement to abolish all forms of export subsidies on agricultural products. On that point, I fully agree and very satisfied. Although it goes beyond parts of Norwegian agricultural production, it is an important point, which means much to the future prospects of developing countries. Norway cooperates with the G10 Group. It's important. I am very pleased with the efforts made by the Government in the WTO negotiations in both our offensive and our defensive areas. Agricultural production is a major national driving force for agricultural policy, but it is also necessary to recognise that the international framework conditions for agriculture are increasingly being set. So I'd like to say a few words about Document No. 8:53 for 2004-2005. The producer-led cooperative organisations are responsible as market regulators, while the producers themselves have financial responsibility for overproduction through reduced prices and turnover taxes. The cooperatives are subject to obligations in the form of responsibilities to purchase agricultural raw materials from primary producers, while being responsible for selling throughout the country. The funding from the turnover tax covers only regulatory costs to manage temporary profits in the market and to ensure the smoothing of regional and seasonal fluctuations. The right considers it important to ensure that market regulation has a neutral effect on competition when considering rights and obligations as a whole and that regulated first-time supply does not prevent further competition in the value chain. It is important and right that the need for, and scope of, market regulation is under constant debate. I am pleased that this year's agricultural negotiations resulted in the end of the market regulation for poultry meat. It is essential to maintain a balance of responsibilities and powers, while emphasising the operation of the system in a non-discriminatory manner. In relation to market regulation and competition in the dairy sector, I would like to point out that a new market organisation is in place from 1 January 2004. The recent announcement by the Government will help to strengthen competition in the dairy market. This includes, inter alia: from 1 January 2006 onwards, competition surveillance shall monitor the market for dairy products in accordance with the provisions of the Competition Act and, where necessary, back-testing. It is appropriate to continue the current system of back-testing and back-testing in the dairy sector in 2005 and to evaluate during 2006 whether the changes in the universal service obligation implemented have had a positive impact on competition. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, together with the Ministry of Modernisation, shall appoint a sample to evaluate during the first half of 2006 the functioning of the established distinction between the raw material part and the industrial part of Tine. If the evaluation shows that the provisions restrict the possibilities for increased competition, it shall be considered to extend the universal service obligation. At the same time, it is important to introduce a standard equity requirement for Tine from 1 January 2006. It will contribute to Tine and independent dairy companies paying equal prices for raw milk, which in turn will ensure equivalent and fair competition in dairy products. I believe it is important for both Tine and the other players that the conditions surrounding the competition should not be determined annually in Oslo District Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1048	The country and agriculture have agreed on a new agricultural agreement increasing the incomes ceiling of 450 million. kr. This means transfers in the order of NOK 11 billion, in addition to shielding aid, extraordinary income deduction costs and other support outside the contract work. Nor has the government chosen this time to settle with the existing agricultural policy, which should be subject to a strong exchange rate conversion. The few positive changes in the agreement, towards more flexible and market-friendly solutions, are far from sufficient to achieve the necessary pace of adaptation of Norwegian agriculture to an international competitive situation. This year too, it has been decided to increase target prices by a total of 260 million. kr, mainly for beef, fruit and vegetables, but also in other areas. As long as there is a system of target prices, we believe that it must be put at a much lower level. Otherwise, price increases will flourish throughout the value chain and inspire increased border trade, as price differences between goods in Norway and neighbouring countries will increase. Food prices have long risen much more than the general price increase. According to SIFO, the State Institute for Consumer Research, food prices in Sweden went down by 0.5 pst. from 2003 to 2004, while food prices in Norway increased by 1.8 pst. The price increase in addition to the recent strengthening of the crown may result in even greater price differences. An accelerated border trade leakage in the next round is likely. A halve of the food tax from 1 July 2001 helped to reduce food prices by 9 pst. According to statistics from the Central Bureau, the halving of the food tax has now been eaten up in the form of higher food prices. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party resulted in a further reduction in food VAT, from 12 p.m. to 11 pst. 1 January of this year. Although food prices were expected to fall, they increased by 1.2 pst. from December 2004 until March of the current year. We therefore meet the results of the published margin and price surveys in the food sector promised by the Minister of Agriculture, with great interest. It is worth recalling once again the intentions of the Sem Declaration to establish competitive prices, as well as reducing the price difference between food in Norway and food in the EU. This intention is far from being fulfilled. This creates problems, including: because it reduces the scope of action for Norwegian farmers. In addition to a significant border trade leakage, imports of agricultural products are increasing. Regular exports are out of date and regulatory export will be limited. Last year we had record imports of groceries, at NOK 22 billion. Never before has so much cheese, fruit, bakery and vegetables been imported, despite a significant customs protection into Norway. It is important that this development is now swindled by improving the competitiveness of farmers and the food industry; The lot of progress is positive to increase the quota cap to 400000 litres of cows' milk per. use and increasing the distance limit to 17 kilometres for farmers who choose to merge milk quotas in joint farms. These are small, small steps in the right direction that offer greater opportunities for rational milk production and thus have a potential for lower milk prices. However, I would like to stress that today's restrictions both for individual dairy farms and for cooperatives make it difficult to make sensible and forward-looking investments. Nevertheless, it is understandable that operational farmers choose the form of co-operation with all constraints, because it is the only possibility to have a larger total quota and hence favourable rationalisation gains. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is essential to succeed within the existing agricultural system that the single-use quota ceiling be increased and that the total quota for co-operation be increased, in addition to the liberalisation of the legislation. It is a ‘must’ if a more competitive milk production is to be developed. We want primarily the production and marketing of milk to take place in a market with real competition, without set quota limits. As long as we have a restriction through a tradable production quota for milk, the system should be practised in a way that provides the necessary structural development and cost reduction of milk production. Therefore, a system of tradable production quotas should be made country-wide. In addition, it is important to establish equivalent conditions of competition between Tine and other operators in the dairy sector. In parallel with the agricultural agreement, the Stortinget is currently considering a private proposal from the Progress Party to establish an equivalent competitive relationship between the Agricultural Cooperation and other private actors in the food sector. It includes a proposal to establish a legal and ownership distinction between market regulators and Tine by adding the tasks of market regulator to a separate public owned company or to the State's agricultural management. If this proposal had been adopted, much of the need for back-testing would have been removed at the same time, as the Tine Group's cross-subsidy incentives would no longer have been available. Within the existing system, it is important to strengthen and continue the post-control. It is also positive that the agreement removes poultry meat from the market regulation system as regards provisioning measures and that prior’s role as market regulator is terminated. This is in line with what the Advance Party has been fighting for for for many years, and this battle is now crowned with victory. The poultry sector is a sensible area to start deregulation. Positive experience is most likely to be gained, and this can be used to liquidate market organisations in other areas as well, we believe. In the case of market regulation for meat, Gilde is assigned the role of market regulator and is at the same time a dominant operator. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that it finds that ‘there are no distortions of competition which give rise to major changes in the market regulation system for meat, as referred to in the proposal’. In this connection, I would like to remind you of the claims made by the National Confederation of the Meat Industry, which have long claimed that the market regulation system for meat has great weaknesses and distortions. A recent ECON report states that in the areas of whole meat and cut meat, there are clear incentives for distortions of competition in favour of market regulation. We have also recorded – and interestingly – that there is a suspicion of cross-subsidisation at Gilde, by using the surplus from one part of the market regulator’s business to subsidise another part. We await the conclusions of ECON, which are in the process of investigating this. The Party considers it important to identify alternatives to current market regulation for meat as soon as possible. The winding-up of the scheme will address the problem of distortions of competition between market players and counteract the overall anti-competitive effect of the current system. It's a long-term goal. Here we propose an intermediate solution that will largely solve the distortions of competition. This can be done by creating a legal distinction between market regulation and validity. Market regulation functions are distinguished in a separate company owned and operated by public authorities or the transfer of regulatory tasks to the State's agricultural management. In agricultural policy, the Progress Party is isolated and alone in many proposals, in particular with regard to giving the farmer the freedom to develop more profitable production. The Norwegian farmer is basted and bound on the hands and feet of quota and regulation restrictions. He can't even determine how many pigs he'll produce, how many chickens and eggs he'll produce, he can't produce milk outside the quota. If he thinks and acts himself, yes, he gets criminalized. So we have no free Norwegian farmer today. The peasants have been deprived of much of their ownership and their right to rule and made dependent on the favor of politicians for many, many years. Politicians govern farming through restrictions on production, through concessional boundaries in the law on acquiring livestock, through strong concessional restrictions on the sale of land and through housing and operational obligations – and we have special legislation in the field of agricultural cooperation, which restricts competition and pushes prices upwards unnecessarily. We also have a system of agricultural agreements, a complex affair which is linked to unbridled conditions and a great red tape. The agreement contains more than 100 related grant and support schemes. An estimated 4,000 agricultural bureaucrats are in this system, raising wages and salaries to keep track of all payments and applications and to carry out checks. Most of these agricultural bureaucrats have to carry their farmers on their backs, really unnecessary. And we see the results – an agricultural policy that does not work. For many, many years collective objectives have been set for farmers’ incomes, rural settlements, food security and, most recently, maintenance of the cultural landscape. The regulatory systems of the 1930s have been maintained and continued without achieving the set objectives of housing, employment and income levels. The average bond continues to serve about 60 pst. by an industrial worker, approximately the same proportion as 30 to 40 years ago. Yes, we have the impression that many people are dissatisfied: consumers, who have Europe's highest food prices, higher than in Iceland and in the mountain country of Switzerland, are dissatisfied, especially those with low incomes, families with children and others who are struggling, and taxpayers, who pay the highest subsidies and subsidies to the farmers, approx. 11 billion dollars a year, the highest in Europe after Switzerland. In addition, we have many dissatisfied farmers. They come in reverse in the development of income, and at the same time we lose approx. 3000 farmers per year despite all transfers and systems. The party of progress therefore says that agriculture has to get out of the corner in which it has been stuck. The time is ripe to provide the self-employed in the food production industry with opportunities and revenues as a result of increased competition and more efficient farm use. The agricultural systems must then be liberalised and deregulated. The market regulation privileges of the cooperative must be replaced by competition law. Industrious farmers must be given more leeway for their own development, inter alia. by lifting concessional limits in the Law on Acquired Livestock. We must abolish all production restrictions, abolish restrictions on the purchase and sale of agricultural property, repeal the provisions on housing and compulsory employment in the law on public works and the law on concessions, and then the system of agricultural contracts must be terminated. Sweden had something similar, but it was abolished many years ago. Other traders do not have such agreements. We have no builder or hotel agreement, and grant schemes and instruments must be placed directly below the State budget. Furthermore, the grants must be based on equal aid per year. animals or units produced as far as possible under our international agreements. Then the farmer will have the best starting point through his own efforts and industriousness to develop farm resources to maximise profits. It is no longer useful, we believe, to report Norway out of the Nordic region, if we are to develop a viable agriculture. Parts of Norwegian agriculture have good opportunities to compete, even if we allow for liberalisation and competition. Then we will have a move towards technologically advanced agriculture with professional and specialised farmers, who will have the opportunity to compete in a freer market, on the one hand on quality and on the other on lower transport costs. Let me do some examples. Milk production and beef based on grass have good opportunities, but it has to be done to a certain extent. We can also compete in power-feed-based productions like chicken and pigs. If we come up on a certain scale, it is fully possible to compete with both Swedes, Danes, Halders and Germans. There are also competitive opportunities in the potato and vegetable sectors. In order to achieve this, there is a need for a significant change in agricultural policy and this should take place as soon as possible. We have no time to lose if agriculture is to have survival opportunities to any greater extent in a few years. I would like to address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the Inner East. S. No 263 and Innst. S. No 191.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1104	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1107	The SV, like the other batches, takes note of the agricultural and agricultural settlements. We are not happy with all the points that have been agreed on, but of course we take note of a negotiated agreement between the parties. The point that we're most concerned about is probably the point of liquidating the market regulation for poultry. Suffering if there's a relatively small part of the total market regulation, we're afraid that it might be the beginning of thinking about and wanting to liquidate more such regulation in the years to come. We think that would be very damaging to Norwegian agriculture. When we discussed the agricultural situation last year, I suggested that we have more agricultural debate in Stortinget. It is a difficult budget line of over $10 billion. There is an area in which the Norwegian people are most affected — all of them putting food in their mouths three to six times per. day(s) All of them are occupied with living settlements, whether you live in town or built. I believe that we in Stortinget spend relatively little time discussing Norwegian agricultural policy, and that very much of it is added to the agricultural negotiations. But now that four years have passed, it's natural for me, at least, as a new politician for SV on the Stortinget, to try to look a little bit into the glass ball, and look a little back. Because if you look back at the four years, something has also happened positively in Norwegian agricultural policy, I think. I'll start with that, take three areas where I think it's a positive development. One is what the Minister of Agriculture has stressed, it goes on Agriculture Pluss – this is about getting more diversity, more variation, more niche production, more organic farming around. In the last year it seems that especially organic production has begun to get a little bit more speed. Suffering if one still hangs a little after marketing and selling in the shops, the production has taken place. Around the country, we see that the interest in niche production is growing. That is why we are pleased that a joint nutrition committee has actually worked, among other things. against getting into a system of mobile slaughterhouses, such as slaughterhouses that drive around and slaughter on farms, as before. We know that this case has all the parties in the committee involved in order to get in place. We also know that they are currently working a little counterwind to get the last pieces in place, but we hope at least that the Government of the Minister of Agriculture will be able to contribute, so that we also get that measure up. I think what's happened around this with small-scale food is a point of light that we're going to take with us. Another point of light goes on animal welfare. When we dealt with the animal welfare message, we did a number of good actions in relation to animal welfare, I think. No later than Thursday, I gave a talk to Norse pigs about pig production. We went through all the measures they've been taking in recent years on animal welfare. It's hard stuff. Likewise, we have seen significant things within cattle. There's also something positive happening in many other areas. We're hanging on poultry again, we're hanging on fur again, but after all, over the course of this four-year period, we've got a lot of good things to do on animal welfare. I think that when we're going to sell Norwegian food in the future, it's one of the advantages we're going to profile. I know that was ridiculed by a lot when we talked about the cows lying on the mattress. Today nine out of ten farmers say that the cows are well on the mattress. That's why I don't think we should be afraid to look for new areas where we're going to profile ourselves in animal welfare. It's an area where we can be the most dissident in the world. A third area that I think we have succeeded in is to get the opinion to see that agriculture has a role to play in addition to producing healthy food. Many, e.g. in the field of travel, they see that they are totally dependent on a living farming system in order to be able to also operate travel lives. We know that travel can probably be the most important industry in many district municipalities in the future. Travel life sees that it depends on well-stocked farms, that they've taken care of the cultural landscape. But it also depends on having something to offer in the form of exciting food – exciting food products, exciting food experiences and exciting stories about food and the farm. That dimension has become stronger, and makes me think that in opinion is the greater acceptance that we should have living settlements and an agricultural policy as it is now led, than what I have experienced, if I go back a few years in time. So there were the negative traits -- I'll take the three there as well. Firstly, I have to say that the speed of structural development has been formidable. We've reduced the number of farms in this four-year period by about 12,000, I think. I know that the Minister of Agriculture said in a meeting six months ago that structural development was at the limit of the decent. That an agricultural minister dares to balance on the border of the decent, I think is brave. If you're completely on that line, you should move in a little bit, so you don't cross over on the other side. I would at least have done it if I were Minister of Agriculture, had some safety clearance there. But we see that sails if it's flattened a little bit in the last year, over this four-year period, it's been a huge decrease in the number of uses. If these developments continue over the next four years, we will have a different type of agriculture in Norway. Then I want to go to the other point that I think is negative. It's that we're kind of losing faith in the small business. I think that's what Norway is created for, is having small farms. If one ignores the Jären, parts of the East and the best areas of Trøndelag, it is largely small-scale agriculture and small-scale use that country is created for. If we don't take inward that's what's our advantage, and that's what we need to develop and invest in, I don't think Norwegian agriculture will have a bright future. The business committee was in Stockholm a short time ago. There we visited, among others. equipment supplier Alfa Laval, who supplies poultry equipment, milking equipment and miscellaneous. They could tell us that they now made equipment for dairy farms with a size of up to 90,000 cows! It tells us that there are dimensions like in the United States and other large agricultural countries that we never have the chance to compete with. But what we can compete for is small business. Norway has been created for small scale farming everywhere, and this is not least the case in agriculture. That's why I think it's a pity that we don't see it, because if we're going to have a living farm in Norway in the future, we actually have to take advantage of the advantage that we have a lot of small farms, that we're actually willing to take care of small farms, and that we're allowed to be part-time farmers and half-time workers as teachers or hairdressers and at the same time grow the land – that we see the value of it. Many of us, most recently the representative Hedstrom today, refer to how great it is in Sweden. But those who have speeded up a little in rural Sweden and seen what has happened there after removing the small farms probably have a slightly more nuanced view of what is positive about agricultural development in Sweden than that, for example. The representative of Hedstrøm has. The last area I want to point out that I think is negative is what has happened in relation to the cooperative. This is particularly true in the last year. Some politicians have tried to tear down the cooperative, the cooperative that is probably some of the most solidarity that exists, that is built up laboriously, and that gives the farmer in the best agricultural areas the same for the milk as the farmer who lives in the innermost valley or on the outermost island. The sense of solidarity that the cooperative has built up over many years, I think, is one of the most important foundations that we have actually managed to have a food production and a living agriculture for so many years. That's why I think it's a shame to experience that such heavy and big parties as, among other things. The Right Party and the Advance Party are so strongly involved in attacks on the cooperative, especially in the last year. There were some of my reflections on Norwegian agricultural policy. But I'm a little concerned that we're going to look into the glass ball, look at what kind of agriculture we want in 2030 – in 25 years. If developments over the next 25 years are going to be like the previous 25 years, it's going to be a different kind of agriculture than what we have today. Should we just accept that evolution is happening? Or do we want to get hold of it? That's the big challenge that I hope will cause more people to get involved in the debate. Should we not, as agricultural policy-makers and policy-makers, set the agenda to say what we want this agriculture to look like by 2030? I finally take up the proposal that SV has made together with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1145	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1148	This year, too, the Government has been able to reach an agreement with the parties to the agricultural negotiations, and there is reasonably no lack of satisfaction on the part of the government parties. I have heard several times say that no previous government has four years in a row to reach an agreement. So you could also say that. The truth is that never before has the political situation been as it is now. The government, which has the law of competition as a political guide combined with a progress party on the tip of the Grottinget, may well stand out as the purest horror scenario in the Farm House. Never before has any government been able to implement such extensive changes in agricultural policy in such a short time — and it is almost complete without any prior debate in the Grand Duchy on these changes. In my opinion, the Norwegian Bondelag and the Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' teams have managed well what could be called the limitation of damage, by concluding these agreements, and are likely to have achieved, from the political point of view, the maximum of what can be expected. In fact, there is reason to commend the fact that one has managed to reach an agreement, as has been done this year – an agreement that otherwise points in a different direction from previous agreements. But there is reason to take note of the statements made by the President-in-Office. It cannot be interpreted in any other way than as a clear warning to the Government regarding both the economic development and the structural development we have seen recently, for the direction of the Government's policy is not to fall short of: The profile of the grants is balanced. It's the little ones who lose. Production ceilings for individual uses are strongly increased. In particular, we have seen this on milk, where the maximum rate of single use has increased from 175 000 litres to 400000 litres in the period, while the Government has wanted that ceiling to be raised to 500000 litres. 400,000 litres have been the result of the negotiations.There has been a more free movement of milk quotas.The activity requirement for co-operation has been removed.The distance limits for co-operations have been increased.Concession limits for power-consuming productions have been raised quite sharply, with overproduction and falling prices as a result. – This only to mention some of the changes that have been made during this period. This year, despite crystal clear statements from both Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture earlier this winter, we have also touched on market regulation. The State's offer in the negotiations led to the withdrawal of the market organisation for eggs and poultry. Thus, the result of the treatment was that the market organisation for poultry was suspended, while the scheme consists of eggs. It is serious enough, not least in the light of the guarantees given some months earlier. However, even more worrying is the work now under way by the Competition Authority, which has been entrusted with the supervision of the milk sector as of 1 January 2006. Competition supervision has commissioned ECON to draw up a report on the competitive situation in the milk sector, where ECON’s project description indicates that competition policy will go far beyond agricultural policy – contrary to what the Minister of Agriculture said earlier in an interview. Competition supervision, through such a mission, plays a role as a political actor, which could have consequences for the price of farmers and consequences for the future role of agricultural cooperation, and ultimately centralisation of both production and processing activities, which will have consequences for rural agriculture. The Centre therefore promotes a proposal to deal with changes in the market organisation in Stortinget before they are implemented in the negotiations. And when Einar Steensnæs in his post expresses joy at the maintenance of the market organisation for eggs, the only natural conclusion should be that he supported this proposal. In fact, his own government would also remove the market organizations on eggs. The rapporteur also said in his statement that overproduction is the cause of a weak income development. Over the period, the government has greatly increased the production framework of individual use and thereby stimulates structural changes. Of course, if overproduction is to be achieved, the decline in consumption will have to be further reinforced and the structural changes that the representatives of the government parties also express some concern would have had to be reinforced. In fact, one should have achieved the income trend that Einar Steensnæs also indicated that he would have liked to have seen it achieved – 600 million. kr more than last year – the take-off had to be strengthened quite strongly. An even more capital intensive agriculture would have been achieved — an even more vulnerable agriculture to interest rate increases, and an agriculture that would have thinned out the professional environments of the countryside even more. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Central Party has put forward, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1192	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1195	It is a pleasure that this year – for the fourth consecutive year – we got an agricultural agreement in the port. This year, too, there was an agreement that both agricultural organisations are behind. Thus, this government has repressively broken past developments, as settlements often ended in breach. Frequent breaches of the agricultural policy may jeopardise the whole system of negotiations. Therefore, it is important that both parties seek ways to find solutions, even though the distance may initially appear in the longest layer. On the part of the Government, it has been important to reach a good agreement, and thus show that we have a viable negotiating institute, as underlined in the Sem declaration. The negotiations of the year got off to a difficult start. The material from the Agricultural Budget Item showed a significantly weaker income development for agriculture than we had foreseen in last year's negotiations. This had several reasons. Cost growth was stronger than foreseen and productivity growth was lower, but also a lack of income growth due to poor market alignment. The latter means that, regardless of the agreement of the year, agriculture has significant income opportunities for better market adaptation. As the majority of the Committee itself refers to, therefore, the agreements concluded have not prevented the development of incomes in agriculture as for other groups. The agreement of the year is based on an agricultural income increase of 5 p.m. In the negotiations, a wage increase is envisaged as this year, i.e. on about 3.25 pst. The decline in employment in agriculture has been estimated at about 4 p.m. The agricultural balance of the year therefore accounts for a clearly higher income increase than the salary growth estimate, and also for agriculture to maintain a significant share of the productivity gain in industry. This has been important by the Government. We're going to have a viable agriculture all over Norway. The development we were going into wouldn't guarantee it. Such a low income growth as the budget title showed would lead over time to closure and delocalisation. That is why I am very pleased that after the negotiations had been concluded, and the agreement had been concluded, Norway's Bondelag stood out and said that a negative development had been reversed. Farming in Norway is not easy. We are heading far north, and in terms of food production, we will never be able to compete with the large agricultural countries in terms of efficiency or diversity. Nevertheless, we have chosen to farm in this country. It's a choice that has a broad majority of the people behind it. That's a lot of reasons. We've thought, and we have experience in it, that it helps to ensure good quality and not least the safety of safe food. We have a good animal health, and we have an agriculture that helps to keep up with the cultural landscape that we are so proud to show. This is a policy that requires a diversity of responses. Among other things, as part of this, we have sought to channel much of the milk production into those parts of the country that are not suitable, for example. to cereals, while cereals production is mainly added, inter alia: the eastern part of the territory. As I said, there is a broad majority both in the people and in the Great Britain behind this policy, but the debate here and the vote confirms that it is a marked exception. It is with interest that I have listened to Mr. Hedstrøm's posts here today and read the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. They did not come as a surprise, but I still think it is worth spending some time with them. The Contracting Party will remove the agricultural agreement, they will remove the concession law, they will repeal all specific rules on agricultural taxation, they will abolish concessional limits and they want the marketing of milk production quotas to be made land-wide. And they'll do a lot more, but I'll stop here. There is no further need to tell what the agricultural policy of the Progress Party would lead to. Such a policy would naturally lead to a massive closure of agriculture in large parts of District Norway and a centralisation of Norwegian agricultural production to a few areas with the best natural conditions. This agriculture has no opportunity to maintain the cultural landscape that the vast majority of people in all polls would like to see. That's the way it is. It's going to be depopulation, and it's going to be repopulated, combined with large industrially similar meat and milk producers. I'll give the Progress Party right in one thing. They get a more efficient and competitive agriculture, and yes, we could even get a little lower food prices from this. But they get this agriculture without the framework conditions that are an important reason why we are going to be farming in this country, that is, a district Norway with living settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1213	I had originally not intended to take any lines at the Council of State, but I will respond to the claim that our district policy will destroy the countryside. There is hardly any country in Europe that has as many opportunities in the districts as Norway has. We have oil, gas, condensate, we have traditional fisheries, we have farming, and we have travel and tourism – I could ram up. We do not take advantage of these opportunities, but we firmly link agricultural policy to rural policy. Does the Council of State mean that we should view the farmers as self-employed? Why should they have a special scheme in the form of an agricultural agreement, when no other trader in Norway, except those who operate reindeer, has it? All other groups must stand on their own, including in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1222	There is one decisive difference between agriculture as an industry and other industries, and it is that agriculture manages our agricultural land and forestry land. Agriculture has no opportunity to manage this in a good way and maintain the cultural landscape that the Norwegian people value so highly, if we do not have a decentralised agriculture, as we want in Norway. It is clear that the industry in the districts is more than agriculture, but the industry in the non-agricultural districts and with centralised and industrialised agriculture, which will lead to the policies of the Progress Party, becomes poorer rural areas. There'll be repopulated settlements, and there'll be depopulation from the villages.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1229	We know that the market regulation for poultry meat is now being removed. We know that the government originally also wanted to remove them for eggs. Is it such that there is a strategy in the government that one wants to remove the different market regulation gradually, and that this was the beginning of a tightening of market regulation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1234	In my reply to Mr Ryan, I would like to refer to what is in the agricultural agreement on this point. There it is clearly established, and signed by the Government and the agricultural organisations, the importance of market regulation in the case of milk and dark meat. This is an expression of the Government's position on policy in this area. The agreement now deals with Stortinget in black and white.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1239	I could imagine following this up a little bit, because I'm not a moment in doubt that the government intends to leave the market regulation behind, and that you want to keep it. That is why my question is: how far does competition actually go at the expense of agricultural policy? I would like to refer to point three of the compromise dated 2 March, between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Modernisation after the so-called Tine case, where it says: ‘If the evaluation shows that the universal service obligations limit the possibility of increased competition, it shall be assessed to amend the provisions towards a further extension of the universal service obligation.’;» This is one point. I would also like to refer to the report that ECON is now preparing, where a mandate has been given by the Competition Authority, which goes very far, and where even legal sharing of the company Tine is to be investigated. Among other things, regulatory changes that reduce customs protection and increase the universality of Tine Commodity shall be anti-competitive measures. So you're going very far. How far does the Government intend to allow the Competition Authority to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1255	First, let me say to the representative, Mr Enoksen, that when he said in his main post that the agricultural organisations had entered into this agreement as part of a purely damage reduction, it was very bad with what the Norwegian Farmers themselves said that this agricultural agreement had turned out to be a negative development. In meeting with the Committee, the Bondelag of Norway expressed particular satisfaction at the end of the year's agricultural agreement with increased budgetary transfers. They are also particularly pleased with the way the negotiations were conducted. There is no evidence that there is a restriction on the damage carried out by agricultural organisations. With regard to the questions raised by the representative, it is clear that the system of the Competition Act limits the level of competition. Where clear agricultural policy/agriculture policy considerations so warrant, these considerations of competition should be abandoned. It's a policy we're behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1262	When I said that the organisations were forced to conclude agreements to limit damage, I spoke from the political situation and more about the four-year period than about the current year. As I said, the current year's agreement points in a somewhat different direction than it has done before. Despite the fact that, in previous years, the Minister of Agriculture has said that agriculture has had a better income development than other groups, the figures for the four-year period show a slightly different picture. But when the Council of State now says that the competition law is to be limited by agricultural policy, my question must be: what is the point of using the Community's resources to have ECON produce a report that goes so far as to allow competition policy to override agricultural policy as it is now to be assessed in the report that is about to be handed over to the Competition Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1269	Analyses of how agricultural policy works and how developments are taking place at the intersection of competition policy and agricultural policy cannot, of course, be in the interests of society. I'd say that kind of analysis is useful. Of course, the analysis itself is not an expression of the kind of policy to be pursued. They are the basis for policy choices. The main principles of the Competition Act and of the Competition Act's relationship with agricultural policy are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1275	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1278	We're dealing with two things today. I would like to comment mainly on the proposal of various progress party representatives on the liquidation of the market regulation system, but I would also of course like to join those who are pleased to have an agreement between the State and the counterparties to the agricultural settlement this year. The proposal from the Progress Party is an attack on one of the pillars of Norwegian agriculture. Without the market mechanisms, we will have a completely different situation in Norwegian agriculture. Through the different market mechanisms, there is a balance in the market. Primary producers are guaranteed market access. A contribution to stabilising prices, and not least to giving somewhat equal prices regardless of geography. A proponent to securing raw materials for industry, and it is important to clarify that the market regulator has both obligations of reception, responsibility for collection and universal service. This ensures that farmers are supplied with their goods and that the industry has access to raw materials. Market mechanisms and channelling policies are the most important factors in today's agricultural policy. Removing one or both of these items also removes the basis for an active agriculture throughout the country. The party's progress proposal had, had it been agreed, left everything to the market, and thus had a razed Norwegian agriculture, especially in the district of Norway. With that one also contributed to destroying the construction pattern in Norway. One wanted to move out of the village, and one would get green. This year we can congratulate the Agricultural Cooperation for 60 years. Different member companies have played a decisive role in developing modern Norway. Although agricultural cooperation is initially a partner organisation for owners, agricultural cooperation is much more important. In fact, agricultural cooperation has been an important factor in implementing what has been public or state agricultural policy. Therefore, one can say in many ways that agricultural cooperation has done a job on behalf of society. So they have been involved in balancing the market, providing fairly equal prices throughout the country and thus making it possible for farmers to drive even if they live piggy. One has thus helped to achieve important goals in our rural policy, and one has contributed to a country-wide settlement. The working party wants to continue the main features of current agricultural policy, including market mechanisms and the role of cooperatives. However, it is important for us to make it clear that we want competition in the agricultural sector, and that other private operators are crucial for further development. It is therefore important to facilitate the participation of other operators in this market and to apply to both small niche producers and other major private operators. At regular intervals, claims have been made that those responsible for implementing the market arrangements have advantages that other operators in the market do not have. Among other things, it is claimed that today there is an overprice for the commodities of those who have to buy from market regulators. Therefore, control is important and, not least, trust in the control system is important. It is particularly turbulent in the milk market. The market organisation for milk shall ensure that all operators enjoy a level playing field. It is the Government that is responsible for the market organisation. The Labour Party therefore takes note that the Government has adopted a new market regime such as: means that the control is transferred to the Competition Authority. We also note that this post-control should continue the year, and that post-control has been crucial for new operators in the milk sector so far. There is a great deal of concern among the new actors today that one should remove the post-control. They are afraid that such liquidation will reduce competition in the milk sector. The Labour Party wants to take this turmoil seriously, and therefore we have asked the Government to consider post-control closures further to help this market to establish itself properly, so that the new players can develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1293	I am very pleased, like most of the others who have had speeches here today, that for the fourth time we can treat a concluded agreement as a basis for the development of the future agricultural policy. That someone criticises that there has been an agricultural policy in the last four years that has been marked by change and that has been in the sign of change, I don't think we can think of anything other than highly predictable. There have been very big changes in Norwegian agricultural policy, which the representative, Mr Enoxen, was unable to find in detail at the last posts, but which I believe are very much appreciated by both Norwegian farmers and others who are concerned with Norwegian agricultural policy. That we have had a reduction in employment in Norwegian agriculture as in previous years, that we have a productivity growth in Norwegian agriculture as in all other Norwegian industries that have the ambition to survive, I think we need to show a greater capacity to enjoy than is the case today. We clearly see a trend in policy towards more robust units, and in fact I also believe that we see a much greater degree of optimism in Norwegian agriculture than we have in recent years. That the average size of Norwegian use has increased from approx. 100 decs per person unit in 1989 to today 184 deches, can hardly be said to be a step towards industrial use. The characterisation of mini-use and small-scale use remains the highest in any international comparison. However, we cannot continue to navigate towards being at the top of Europe in terms of aid, that we should produce as before and have an agricultural sector that is geared towards production aid to the same extent as before, when everyone in this House knows that we are going to meet an amended legislation from the forthcoming WTO negotiations, which is likely to also affect Norway in a few years' time. Still, we have a share of state aid per year. 100 % of agricultural income of about 10 %. NOK 72, which far exceeds remuneration for work and equity in Norwegian agriculture. If we were not to navigate in a different direction in Norwegian agricultural policy, we would simply not meet the needs of agriculture itself to be able to survive. It is quite clear that we are already in a situation where we see that the Norwegian Råk industry is facing new challenges. Imports by the RAC industry have doubled in a few years. We have continued to move towards a larger price increase in Norway than in our neighbouring countries Denmark and Sweden, which we cannot continue with in the future. I'm also going to do like Ryan, the representative who tried to see in a glass sphere. If we look at the glass ball, we need to take over the transformation that the representative of Enoxen characterized as the largest conversion of agricultural policy that has ever taken place in a four-year period. I think we should be very happy that this conversion takes place. It is a conversion that representatives of Norwegian agriculture have, after all, understood that we need to conclude agreements with the Norwegian state, in order to see further developments. We cannot create the dark picture of Norwegian agriculture that I see some people trying to do in this room, because this is not being deleted representatively and hardly any important contribution to those who are going to go in and offer their labour effort or their capital in Norwegian agriculture for the future. The fact that some so-called Norwegian agricultural support players believe that in Norway we can reduce the forthcoming WTO changes should perhaps not be a big surprise. We cannot do that, of course, because we have no country in the world that will support us in these forthcoming final negotiations. However, a very sound policy is being implemented in this area, which, through state aid, could continue to contribute to the continuation of robust Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, the conversion takes place at a pace that is necessary — either too slow or too fast. However, this illustrates most of all that there is no political alternative in Norway to today’s implemented agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1310	Like most other speakers today, I must also point out that it is the fourth agricultural agreement concluded by the Cooperation Government with the agricultural organisations. There are four signed agreements in a row, and we have to go back to the time before the accession decision in 1975 to find it. It can be said to be both surprising and joyful. This is surprising because during the period we have carried out important and necessary reforms of the instruments, probably the largest release of the Norwegian farmer that has been carried out, both inside and outside the contract institute. It is gratifying because important reforms have been implemented in agreements with business organisations. It's getting higher under the roof, and I have to say that it's pleasing to a left-hand man. Organisations shall be in favour of taking responsibility for implementing reforms which have given greater levers to those who wish to operate enterprises based in agricultural properties. For me, this has been absolutely necessary reforms for attractive and exciting agriculture in the future. The future comes with increased purchasing power of a saturated population and increasing international competition. The agricultural agreements have been integrated into a whole where it has become clearer that agriculture needs to become more than agriculture. And the fight for customers and the benefit of citizens will be intensified. Two thirds of the agricultural assets are currently not operating as own enterprises. The development of activities and experiences, both on these and in the active food producing units, will make important contributions to the use of the land, to attractive settlements and the countryside as exciting destinations. At the same time, it has been important to vitalise regional and local levels of agricultural policy. It is important both for democracy and for increased knowledge and local involvement in the contribution of agriculture to the development of local communities. Substantial resources in local and regional decision-making processes, including: industrial development and the environment come from the agricultural agreement. This has not been conflict-free in the contractual context. But I am convinced that it is the right way to go, also for active agricultural businesses. Farming is given more local attention, solutions are better adapted locally and anchored, and policies are more focused. The agreement of the year shall form part of the same whole. In several areas, the changes are smaller because there is already room for adjustments that have to be made over time. However, such measures include: the changes in the market organisation for cereals and poultry meat and the establishment of a risk-loan scheme, important adaptations of the use of the instrument to the reality in which they are to operate. In this reality, developments in national and international markets and agreements are increasingly pre-empting policy-making. It is therefore important to stress that it is 450 million within the framework of the agreement. emphasis is placed on maintaining the conditions of competition of the food industry. The framework provides the basis for an increase in income of about 5 pst. But already we see improvements in the market balance in the sectors that have had overproduction over a period, so that growth could increase. But it also depends on developments in the economy in general and the decisions taken in each enterprise in the future. The agreement prioritises the specialised beef production. It is important, not only because this production has relatively low profitability and significant market potential, but also because it is important in the use of the land and the care of the cultural landscape. We know that keeping the cultural landscape open and preventing re-growth is an important cause of popular support for agricultural policy. I am pleased that the large majority in the Chamber, with some changing remarks, are behind the agreement. In the examination of this agreement, too, the Procedural Party is standing completely outside, with a policy for bottled factories and with reclaimed areas beyond commuter distance to a larger city. We know that this isn't how the North doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1334	When the Business Committee had a hearing on the agricultural agreement, we were made aware of a strategy of Innovation Norway in Telemark. Milk consumption which does not have more than 100 000 in allowances will not receive commitments for grants and loans for investments from 2005 onwards as a result of a defined regional BU strategy. Only 50 of the total 200 dairy farms have quotas of over 100000 in that county. There are large distances, so it's hard to co-operate. Thus, the requirement for such an allowance implies 75 pst. by all dairy farms in Telemark may be pushed out in the long term. Does the Council of State think it is right when he himself claims that structural changes happen quickly enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1341	I think it is important to say that milk production is the most extensive, most important and most economically important agricultural production. There's a lot of capital being invested. The most important investments are in buildings, and those that build and rate are binding up their economy for a very long period of time. It is then essential and important that the public lenders and advisors we have help to ensure that the projects realised with loans and public contributions are robust to cope with the future we face. It must be an obligation for lenders to ensure that it is borrowed for safe and good projects. The individual assessment must also be carried out by Innovation Norway in the respective counties. I assume that's what's happening both in Telemark and elsewhere. That is what gives future-oriented and sustainable milk production, which provides safe and good investment for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1350	We see that with the agreement entered into, the target prices increase by over a quarter of a billion kroner. The cheese is getting significantly more expensive. The beef is getting even more expensive, and fruit and vegetable prices are rising, etc. What does that mean in practice? Well, that means that the action space of the Norwegian farmer is still being reduced. There have been a number of large numbers on several occasions who have in practice done something to bring down food prices. On 1 July 2001, we got a halve of the food tax. In the last budget agreement, we reduced the food market by 1 pst. The government initially proposed to increase by 1 pst. So it's a difference of 2 pst. and a proceeds of DKK 1.2 billion. Nevertheless, food prices rose, despite the fact that food chains promised the Norwegian people that VAT reduction would fully benefit consumers. I then called for the margin surveys and price surveys from NILF, which were promised in May. When will these investigations come, and when can we see who are the bandits in this drama?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1359	Well, then, it's councillor Lars Sponheim, who's going to find the bandit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1362	It is true that there have been very cautious to moderate price increases in the contract concluded. Agriculture promoted price increases in its demand, and we chose to meet it as a contribution to finding a solution. Then you can reflect on how much space there will be for price increases in the future, given WTO negotiations and the room for action they provide. But in this round, the government considered this to be acceptable. It will have a completely negligible impact on the consumer price index. When it comes to margin surveys, I'm waiting the same way as Hedstrøm, and I have reason to have expectations that it will come very quickly. We have problems getting the information from everyone. In particular, there are those in the poultry sector who do not want to provide us with information. Now we have pressed them very hard, and I want to ask that all good forces help put pressure on those actors, so that we get the information that they should contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1371	State Council Sponheim has long training in and good traditions of moving on the border. I'm thinking about the lockdown. He may have learned that in that way that being in that situation is acceptable. However, when the Council of State says that we are at the limit of what is inappropriate in terms of structural development in Norwegian agriculture, I wonder if it is his experience with other borders that makes him so calm and relaxed, or whether he does not think it is a bit demanding – after four years as Minister of Agriculture – that we have come so far as to be at the limit of what is inappropriate in terms of structural development in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1379	I can confirm to the representative Ryan that the Council of State has exceptionally good nerves, in both one and the other. I meet the future with a good mood and see opportunities more than most, I think. As far as structural development is concerned, the representative Ryan was also present when I spoke in a speech in front of the food businesses, where there was a unisoning pressure that structuralisation must go dramatically faster than it is now. I stated that I have a pressure at the opposite end, that someone says that it should almost not go forward at all, and I expressed that I stand for a line that I think is sound, which I believe is professionally sustainable and right to meet the challenges we face. But I also said that it's an outer limit of how fast we can go, because we're talking about people's homes, people's most important investment through life, and we're going to have a reasonable degree of security around it. Now, a few days after I said this, it turned out that the structuralization didn't go so fast. It actually went about. 20 pst. slower. As a result, margins along the line requested by Ryan were actually established.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1386	The regulatory period has now come to an end, but the President proposes that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1389	It is a fact that structural development has not gone very close to what the Government has given the ceiling height for. ‘The ceiling has become higher’, said the Minister of Agriculture in his speech. There's still a lot to go on. Both the Minister of Agriculture and the speakers from the government parties have argued that overproduction is a major reason why the revenue gap was not reached last year. Against this background, there is reason to ask the Minister for Agriculture: How much faster is structural development to be achieved in the coming year, and in the years to come, when both uses are to be increased and increased, while total production needs to be reduced in order to adapt it to the market? That necessarily means that there are some uses that have to go away. How much does structural development need to increase in order to achieve market adaptation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1401	It is such that the roof, or the action space of the individual peasant, has become larger. But it is not the case that those who operate within this subject and control the policy, in some way, make sense or believe that everyone should make maximum use of that space of action, because there are completely different assumptions that must be present, namely the area base of the individual, the assumptions of the individual in order to be able to become larger. It's about giving room for action to all the actors. Of course, Norwegian farms will not stop at this ceiling all the way. It's a much greater diversity than the thinking that's used here. We have a structural development that is approx. plus/minus 4 pst. This year. This is the case in most other countries in northern Europe, and there is no reason for this structural development to go further. I think it is important to stress that, in parallel with this development, there is a adventurous innovation in Norwegian agriculture, which is quite formidable, by the fact that some rates are new and untraditional. We had a significant demonstration of it at Karl Johan in Oslo last weekend, which shows that a silent revolution is now taking place with new alternatives. It must be good for agriculture and the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1408	The Government is responsible for the market organisation for milk, and the Government has now decided that the responsibility for monitoring the milk market should be transferred to the Competition Authority. The government has also decided to terminate the post-control of milk prices. Such back-testing has been entirely decisive for new entrants to claim themselves on this market. There is now a great deal of concern among these actors, because if the back-up is removed, there will be a few negative developments in terms of competition on this market. There is also a great deal of concern about whether one at all can claim without such a back-up check. For the Labour Party's part, we think it would have been an advantage to postpone the winding-up until there was a larger deal between the actors, among other things. when pricing is involved. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is whether he feels that this turmoil from market players is groundless.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1413	The new market organisation for milk is professionally and in all respects a fairer and more transparent system than the one we have had in the past. This means that there is a clear distinction between how far agricultural policy goes and when general economic and competition policy takes over. That line is at the target price, which is adopted in the context of the agricultural agreement. In front of you is the agricultural policy that determines. After that it is the industrial and competing operators, which should be like the ordinary industry in general. Thus, it is the Competition Authority that monitors what is happening there. This has been an important principle for us in the Ministry of Agriculture. Perhaps we are the driving force behind this: agricultural policy and market regulation up to the target price, from which we have been the starting point for all industrial players. I feel quite convinced that this will be well taken care of. In recent years, the competitive situation has improved considerably. There are no monopolistic actors anymore. Even on the consumer milk market and direct trade in milk with the farmer, we are now in about 20 pst during this year. private actors through the Q-meierien. As a result, the last monopoly area in agriculture has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1420	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1423	When I asked for the floor, it was to complete Ryan's travel description from Sweden. We were at the factory De Laval correctly, but they produced other things than equipment for use with 90,000 cows. They produced a moped that ran around India and milked one and one cow. I think there's something between this that's relevant for Norwegian agriculture. Of the products they have – without me from this pulpit talking about technical equipment for agriculture – I think robots that evolve in relation to size of use with between 50 and 100 cows may make sense for robust agriculture in the future. I think there's just such a technological device, such a technological innovation that makes it possible for us to still use on a relatively small scale in this country. Agriculture has a responsibility to produce common goods that society demands. That's where the main reason for the transfers lies. Right-wing agreement, but there is no contradiction in the fact that we are going to streamline and exploit the technological innovations that are coming. I also want to say a few words about Tine. Collaboration is a private enterprise. Right is happy in private business, but it is important that we have competition in a market. If the only competition is the annual report of the previous year, there is no specific development. The size has said that we should have competition. I think in that context it's important – and I want Tine well when I say it – that Tine makes its equity visible. On this we do not want the price to be fixed annually in Oslo Tingrett. It serves no one, and at least Tine. Finally, I would like to express optimism on behalf of Norwegian agriculture. We see that recruitment is increasing, and I think it is primarily because the cooperative government has shifted the attention from the detailed annual growth models to the companies. Norwegian farmers are entrepreneurs, they are managers, and they are happy with the freedom they have gained to organise their activities as appropriate. That's why I'm optimistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1436	The Minister of Agriculture said to me in his reply that the milk producers were not near to reaching the ceiling that has been put through the last year's negotiations. That's right, of course. The average use is between 16 and 17 cows, and has increased from between 13 and 14 cows at the beginning of this four-year period, and is now up to 16 – almost 17 animals, if I am not mistaken. I have to say that I am surprised when I hear the representative Momyr, who is an agro-political spokesman for the Right – one of the dominant government parties, I suppose it must be allowed to say – in his post now he sees that a robust and good dairy industry will have between 50 and 100 cows in the future. It's actually where the government has also wanted the limit to lie, when two consecutive years have now wanted to raise the ceiling to 500,000 litres of milk per. single use. That's about. 80 cows. It's at the right level and Michael Momyr now wants the average use to be in the future. What happened now in the last article by Michael Momyr, is that you've gotten the cats out of the bag in relation to what kind of structural development the government inside wants to do, but you haven't been able to do so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1443	I think it is important to clarify that the policy on the structural development of milk production that the Government has put in place definitely does not aim for us to have an average use that is on the ceiling of the quotas allocated. It is and must be a diversity of sizes, because there is a diversity of assumptions for different sizes. The land base and the conditions under which it operates are very different around the country. Now that we've reached a level of 400,000 litres of milk on single use, it's a size that makes it possible for single use to also use known technology as milk robots today, and have the economy to invest in it. It will be very professionally wrong, and politically wrong, whether it should only be through co-operation and greater co-operation solutions that it will be possible to use the latest technology available in Norway. That is why, in my opinion, it is a good size to have a roof on for the few who want or have the opportunity to invest and bet as extensively as it is. There is to be a policy for a diversity of uses, and I just remind you that such a small tool as this government used, to open up to produce milk outside the milk quota if you want to grow yourself, has actually contributed to a never so small silent revolution. In a short time we are now up in 140 approved ironworks around Norwegian gardening, and 500 different oysters are made. This means that we are getting a diversity in the food market from Norwegian producers that we have not had before. It is this government's policy that triggers it. We're at the beginning of a very exciting future when this continues. In a short time, there will also be a regulatory change that will allow small gardening establishments to also purchase milk to exploit their production potential for ice cream. Some of them will probably have prerequisites for becoming quite large and more industrial. That's what I think is drawing the picture of a very exciting development around Norwegian towns. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Committee for many exciting debates and for good cooperation on the subject of the agricultural agreement – for the fourth consecutive year – and thank you for the fact that, fortunately, it has been widely agreed in most of the parties – in agricultural policy as well as for having exciting and good debates. I also think there is a basis for giving credit to the representative Hedstrøm, who has stood for the most alternative thinking – a consistent and capable debater, who has reasonings that hold water, even though most of us disagree with them. That is why I would also like to be allowed to thank you for all the good opportunities from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1459	Now let's right if the representative Hedstrom is united in that characteristic!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1462	I thank you for the review I received here. This is the last article I have in a purely agricultural debate here in Stortinget. I am leaving the Storting now on Friday, at least in terms of practical activities in this room. It's important, of course, as the Council of State says, that diversity means a lot. We've discussed this many times – irons and other ways of producing specialities. But it must not be overshadowed that the maximum number of farmers lives on bulk production, and that this other can only be a supplement to traditional and central agricultural production. The representative of Enoxen mentioned this with 16-17 dairy cows, and that we have increased by some in this four-year period. If we see what our neighbouring countries have done to be competitive, in the 1970s, there were about the same number of cows in all the Nordic countries. The Danes were a little ahead. Five years ago the Swedes had 30, the Danish 60 per. dairy farmers, and fins are at full speed in the future. What does that show? Well, it shows that all the other Nordic countries are adapting to the world of reality, just not Norway. So here, we're going to stick to the same number. So the other Nordic countries have a development in line with what the Progress Party stands for, to get rational units and to get survival opportunities. Look at Finland, which has about the same social institutions, the same population, lying on the same latitudes, etc.: Food prices have fallen considerably in the last ten years, while the Finnish farmer has a belief in the future. I also think this government could learn a little bit from that. ‘Look to Finland’ and see what they have done in agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1471	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. Nine and ten. [[Votation, see pages 2897 and 2898]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1487	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be five lines of reply given by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1496	The size is now in line with the negotiated reindeer management agreement. The annual framework for the grubbing-up agreement is 92.5 million. kr, exclusive means of action against radioactivity. This corresponds to a reduction of 2,5 million. kr in relation to the last year's reindeer management agreement. The size is concerned with sustainable reindeer management. This means that it should be an ecological sustainability, an economic sustainability and a cultural sustainability. Organic sustainability requires a critical focus on the management of the grazing basis in order to ensure the grazing balance. In areas where overgrazing has occurred, the balance must be restored. This is to enable the industry to develop in the short and long term. Economic sustainability requires productivity, performance, cost-effectiveness, level of income and distribution of income. It also requires that there is a reasonable relationship between the industry's resource base and the number of people seeking income and employment opportunities in reindeer management with the market and employment opportunities available. In the case of cultural sustainability, reindeer management is essential for the preservation and development of Sami settlement, culture and language. It is necessary to ensure stable employment and income in industry. Clear framework conditions for the individual economic operator enable reindeer management to strengthen its position as a central bearer of Sami culture. It is a challenge to increase the value of business professionals. Experience from previous years on which it is important to point is that there are challenges related to coordination between production and sales. In order for the meat to be placed on the market, the distribution and market channels must be secured and function optimally. With regard to the management of reindeer management policy, it has faced major changes in recent years. There has been a conversion from arrangements that have been largely fixed per. holding, to schemes which premium production and value creation. It has been focused on facilitating increased production and value creation from industry, based on a desire for greater economic sustainability. Experience from this shows that this has been an incentive for increased slaughtering of pure. This is also supported in this year's agreement with a greater focus on nutrition and an organisation for the reindeer operators who have a main activity as reindeer. The Committee has noted that even with a very good slaughter result, the reindeer in West Finland is per. 1 April 2005 calculated for about 90 500 pure. This gives a difference of 26,200 pure in relation to the required reindeer number. The difference is significant and it shows that voluntary measures have not given rise to the desired reduction. The Committee considers this to be extremely serious. The various economic incentives that have been put in place have not proved to have the appropriate effect. In the West-Finland reindeer grazing area, the situation is such that the ecological and material basis is seriously threatened. This is very serious, and there is a real need for measures that could be effective from the coming slaughter season. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that priority should be given to the reduction of the reindeer number. The Storting has been submitted with a new law on changes in reindeer management, Ot.prp. No 99 for 2004-2005. At the end of the session, the Economic and Social Committee did not find it possible to deal with that matter. But we expect the ministry to continue the dialogue with stakeholders, so that we can move on together in this important work. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 in the settings. Since we have not been given the opportunity to deal with the new odelstingsproposition now, and the Stortinget will deal with it in the autumn, I would urge the Progress Party to consider making the proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1517	In addition to what the rapporteur has said, it is important for us in the Workers' Party to stress a number of points. The sewerage industry has and must continue to play a major role in the maintenance and development of a living Sami society, economic, social and cultural. It is therefore important to ensure income for economic operators, not least as regards the placing on the market of pure meat. It is gratifying to record that the measures taken have improved slaughterhouse and market access. In addition to helping to secure the economy, it is also necessary in relation to the ecological framework conditions within which the industry operates. There has been and is likely to continue to be a great deal of attention about the situation in West Finland. That you have an increase of 26 pst. in the case of slaughter, is good. In addition, there is a private outlet, which is not yet known. It remains to be continued the killing, so that the number of pure gets closer to the natural assumptions. It is therefore necessary to continue measures to reduce the purity. As indicated in St.prp. No 63, the difference between the number of pure and the reindeer it should be, is over 26000 animals. The Nordlys newspaper writes on Tuesday, May 31, this year that the wear on the reindeer beds has deteriorated greatly, and that the capacity is much lower than when the decision was made on a top reindeer of 64 000 animals. The paper goes on to write: ‘Researchers and management considered it necessary to reduce the loads on the worn pastures. Instead it increased dramatically, and last autumn it became evident that the problems have also occurred on the lush summer pastures. Several of the flocks that moved east of last year were in poor condition and, according to the slaughterhouses, both weights and meat quality were worse than one year earlier.» In addition to addressing this issue, both in the field of animal health and ecology, it is necessary to remove the noise from the industry. There is a lot of positive in the industry that doesn't have the opportunity to come forward, because the situation in West Finland is overshadowing everything. We see that there may be a need for instruments that can already work from the coming season. In the Labour Party we regret that we in the Committee did not have time to deal with Ot.prp. No 99 for 2004-2005 on the Act amending Law No 9 June 1978 49 on reindeer operations. The Labour Party sees that it is necessary to get some grip on, so that you go on to bring down the number of clean but that you also have to work at the same time to get alternative businesses in these areas. We have noticed in retrospect that, among other things. The merger believes there is a need for consultation, and assumes that the government will conduct such discussions before the matter comes back to Stortinget. Measures to reduce the number of pure may be difficult to obtain, but this is very necessary. The value creation programme for reindustry is an important tool for increased value creation in the industry, and it is therefore good to continue it. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have an industry that is economically good, but it must be in line with the limit of tolerance of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1541	As well as the case-rapporteur as the representative of Mr Gaundal has contributed in many ways to the debate which is quite consistent with the agreed position of the Committee, in particular with regard to the pro posal that the Committee was not prepared to deal with, on amendments to the reintroduction law. I think it is important, as the two previous speakers did, to establish that the Storting has the same objective as in the past, namely to achieve a balance of the Finnmarks ecosystem, and that the concepts of sustainability and sustainability remain the overall objective in ecological terms. The adjustments that are necessary and that were available in the form of proposals from the Council of State, in order to get it in place, we expect to be implemented. Like others who have spoken, I am convinced that the necessary discussions to get this in place will be in everyone's interest. Although the reindeer industry is often negatively referred to in the media and in the political debate, there is no doubt that we see trends towards positive developments. There is no doubt that we see a significant increase in the slaughter of pure. There is no doubt that we see an increase in value creation within the reindeer. We see a clear increase in remuneration for own labour and equity in the reindeer industry. We saw a remarkable increase from 2002 to 2003, at a total of 14 p.m. We get a further increase when we get all the numbers in place for 2004. In this context, although, as I said, many negative presentations, there is little doubt that economically, the reindeer industry is much more sustainable than the Norwegian agricultural industry. I guess it's worth taking into account in the further debate. Of course, it is important to continue to stimulate increased slaughter outlets. It has now been put in place in the agreement. But I would also like to stress that the measures that have been implemented in the context of marketing campaigns in the last few years, obviously, are the most important sign of increased value creation, of increased economic performance, and that in fact will be better able to get in touch with the large amount of raw materials in the reindeer industry and the large market we have in the country for these noble natural products, a market that is, in fact, sometimes very difficult to obtain these precious products. For those who had to sit with the impression that reindeer meat is a threat within the meat market, I would say that it could hardly be such that 0.5 pst. of the total meat offer offered by the reindeer industry via reindeer meat represents a threat. However, continuing this type of incentive for increased value creation and an even greater concentration on marketing, I think we will see a situation in which all the economic arrows can still point in the right direction, and that is certainly both necessary and a strong need for it as regards the industrial development of the Finnmark range in particular, and in the Norwegian reindeer industry in particular, but also in combination with the Sami culture and Norwegian reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1552	Since the reindeer operation became a state bet area through the establishment of a reindeer management agreement in 1976, experience over all these years with a state-subsidised system has been consistently negative. Despite significant capital injections each year and many measures, developments have given rise to a high number of animal tragedies, an ecological disaster in terms of degradation of nature, an excessive number of professionals and mostly low meat prices and marketing problems. Since the processing of the Landfill Communication on Sustainable Repurchase, the Progress Party has opposed the established clean-up grant and regulation schemes. We are right in our gloomy prediction of how the industry would develop if the policy were not changed. Until the review of last year's reindeer management agreement, it has not been possible to bring together a majority of the Stortinge behind proposals or comments which could lead to improvements. Through the annual debates, the members of the Economic and Social Committee expressed their views and pointed out the problems. In all these years, problems have only grown and finally assumed significant dimensions. This has given the impression of paralysis and undermined the credibility of the Storting. It was therefore an encouragement when a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party last year got together on a majority remark about using stronger instruments to reduce the reindeer number. It was expected that this matter would be given a high priority by the Government. The representative, Mr Gaundal, said in the debate: ‘In the case of the Workers’ Party, it is now important to inform them that if the measures that are now in force do not reduce the number of pure, we must move from voluntary to involuntary measures.’ The representative Ryan said: ‘We actually assessed whether we should support the proposals of the Progress Party, which are very tough, but we want to wait a year to give the Government and the Government the opportunity to do what the Storting has asked for.’ And the representative, Enoxsen, said, ‘I don’t need to spend a long time. I just want to stress also from our side that there is a work that needs to be prioritised, and where the Council of State needs to use the means necessary to achieve this." Provisional figures per year 1 April for West Finland is 90 500 pure, which is still too high compared to the set targets for the development of sustainable reindeer management. We can agree on that. It should now be clear to everyone that the voluntary line has failed and that other and stronger instruments now need to be put into practice. And there is an urgent need to establish alternatives: what is possible under the reindeer management agreement and the applicable reindeer management law in order to reduce the number of clean. This work must now be given the highest priority and not slowed down pending a new reindeer permit. It is of great importance that things take place in parallel, so that the necessary measures are put in place from the coming slaughter season. The government has signalled that it will propose a new reindeer law and a new principle of reindeer reduction based on the individual siida. This may have a lot to do, but it may take time to establish the page boundaries, because this is based on an old Sami system with the distribution of grazing areas. This must not constitute a new obstacle to the use of economic sanctions or the necessary coercive measures in the form of coercive measures, if this is necessary to achieve the objectives set. It is also important now that the notified law does not have a content that promotes the development of several small holdings that cannot have economic sustainability. It is therefore urgently necessary to ensure credible instruments in the form of effective measures which also allow for a greater degree of compulsory reduction of the reindeer flocks. On this occasion, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit the necessary proposals in the notified reindeer management law, allowing the use of coercive measures so that the number of pure can be adapted to the fixed reindeer in West Finland to 64 3000 animals over a shorter period and by 1 April 2006 at the latest.’ I hope that the proposal will be widely welcomed. The rapporteur has proposed that it be turned into a transmission proposal, but I still choose to maintain the proposal. I also refer to the proposals of the Progress Party that have been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1592	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposals he referred to and referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1595	Purity is a balance between economics, ecology and culture. There is no doubt that for a minority as a group, reindeer farming is essential, and that this means that we have important cultural traditions to maintain. I could have talked a lot about it, but I'd rather skip over to it with economics and ecology. We in SV are also concerned about the reindeer number at Finnmarksvidda. It's true, as the representative Hedstrøm said, in the previous debate on it, we have clearly stated that we want priority to be given to reducing the reindeer, and we record that the department and the government have worked very actively to get it done. Now it turned out that we got a case at the end of the year that was so extensive that our party too, SV, chose to say that we had to postpone it because it was so large that we wanted longer time on it before we could make a final decision, among other things. with hearings and various information gatherings. However, this does not mean that you do not have to continue the work that you have started to do in order to find voluntary good solutions together with the reindeer workers in order to reduce the reindeer figure, which is now around Ninety-five hundred. The other area is economics. There is no doubt that you have had a bad economy in the cleaning industry, despite the fact that you have a great product that is being asked for. That is why, in our opinion, the next year will have to give even more speed to market channels and even more marketing of reindeer meat. We know that there has been active work from the government and the department with various campaigns to get these goods out to the shops and get them marketed, among other things. in the more densely built strips which do not normally have access to reindeer meat. We in SV appreciate that you have such an offensive attitude to it, so that, first of all, you can get a provision for reindeer meat, but also a price for what makes the economy in the industry better. In the end, I would like to say that we believe that the dialogue with reindeer workers is extremely important, and as the committee was on an inspection in Finnmark, we were given the chance to meet some of them. We've also had the chance to meet some of them here in Stortinget, and I think that in the future, when we're going to make some of the demanding choices, it's unusually important that we have a good dialogue with those who run the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1610	As the representative Hedstrom was so lovable that he quoted my post last year, I could be even shorter this year and just refer to what I said in the post a year ago, because it is still available. The Council of State shall be in favour of prioritizing and stressing the work of reducing the number of clean-up plants. The failure to do so should not be the responsibility of the Council of State. It's very problematic to get this done. The more important is the unanimous support that the Storting is now signaling to the work of the Council of State, and I will also use this opportunity to encourage the practitioners of the reindeer industry to understand the seriousness of the situation. The Economic and Social Committee did not have the timeliness to deal with the legislative changes proposed by the Council of State, but there is no doubt that there is strong support in the Storting that the necessary measures to reduce the reindeer need to be put into effect. This has given the industry another opportunity to understand that, after all, volunteering will be better than any coercive means, and I would just like to end by encouraging reindeer operators to use this opportunity now to try to reduce the reindeer figure by means of voluntary agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1619	It is a goal for the Government to facilitate sustainable reindeer management. In this context, the industry must, as far as possible, also be on its own economic footing. This year's reindeer management agreement reduces the framework by 2.5 million. kr. In my view, this is a step in the right direction and an expression that it facilitates an increase in production-based income by more fully realizing the values represented by the reindeer flocks. In line with this, the contracting parties have agreed to continue the production-dependent grants. In reprocessing we do not have problems with overproduction, and it is desirable to increase slaughter in areas with high grazing pressure in order to meet the objective that reindeer farming should also be ecologically sustainable. Furthermore, the objective must be to stimulate the economic return of the individual reindeer as much as possible on the basis of the given resource base. The value creation programme for pure is important in this respect. The sewerage industry is a central element of Sami culture. In order to maintain such a position and to be culturally sustainable in itself, it is necessary that it can refer to just production and value creation. Without a solid economic foundation, reindeer management will by far lose substance and consistency, thereby weakening the basis for the special protection of reindeer management and Sami culture. I am pleased that the committee expresses similar views. With regard to the resource situation, in particular, the focus has been on renumbering in West Finland. As we can see from the proposition, we have failed to achieve the goal of a pure number of 64 300 per cent. 1 April this year. With a cut-off number of approx. We have to admit, unfortunately, that we are far away from this, despite the fact that it has not been slaughtered as much clean in many years as it was done in the last season. Against this background, and on the basis of clear estimates from the Stortinget, on 27 May 2005, a proposal on certain changes to the Law on reindeer management was promoted. The aim was to have provisions in the law that could provide a legal basis for reindeer adaptation that could have an effect in the short term, including providing authorities with a much more nuanced sanctioning apparatus than the provisions of today’s law on coercive slaughter, pending the more extensive revision of the reindeer management law that is under way. I take note that the Storting finds it difficult to deal with such a matter in a short time and on the submitted basis. This means that next year we will not have sufficient means to achieve the necessary renumbering in Finnmark. However, I am pleased that the Committee clearly states that the possibilities for a redeployment through financial incentives must now be seen as essentially exhausted. In addition, the Committee concludes that further follow-up must be based on the provisions of the Act on reindeer management. The Committee points out that legislative measures are necessary as soon as advice is available and that this task must have a high priority. I will ensure a quick follow-up of the Storting's clear assessments. I further assume that the unanimous judgements of the parent company and the Sámi organisations are the basis of the Stortingen's unanimous assessment of the further work. The land situation in reindeer management is also a condition that requires constant attention and vigilance. I note that the Committee's comments address these issues. I can assure you that the protection of the reindeer's areas will be strongly emphasized by me and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1642	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1646	There are high expectations of the new reindeer management law which has been notified to be published at the end of this year. One then works on the basis of a new principle for the reduction of numbers, that it should be adapted to the individual siida. It takes time to set the page boundaries, and there may be other rights issues. This is based on an old Sami system. When we get a new law, it is very important to make it clear that it has to function effectively relatively quickly, both in terms of sanctioning options and the possibility of imposing coercive measures if necessary. So my question to the Council of State is: will this law be able to function effectively from day one, or after a relatively short period of time, and not be dependent on a lengthy process, rights issues and page limits, which means that, once again, we will not, through the law, continue to have a reduced reindeer figure?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1653	I expressed it in winter when we worked at the hardest of all, through voluntary roads, to get slaughtered so much that we could get as close as possible and preferably down to the target number of 64,300 pure per. 1 April, that if we get the figure low enough and do not have to implement enforcement measures within the current legal basis, I will provide a new reindeer management law based on the silk principle by the end of the year. Now that wasn't the situation. We got too high a figure, and I saw that I had to do as soon as we had the numbers in place and had done the law job, to promote a change in today's law in order to have the necessary coercive measures in place for the autumn. Then I take note that the committee saw no opportunity to deal with it and give the government these instruments in the short term. Now, we are in a situation where the Government must continually consider carrying out consultations and promoting changes in today's law to the harvest, and in parallel with working with a new law. It will probably take a little longer before it can contribute to the necessary renumbering.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1660	No more words have been asked for a line. Several have not asked for the floor either. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2899]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1681	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2899]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1699	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2899]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1717	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2899]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1733	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2900]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1751	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1769	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1788	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1807	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1826	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1839	The size shall then be in line with the case number. 1 to 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1846	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-4, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, from Per Ove Wide on behalf of the Progress Party It goes over the minority proposals in the usual order, then over the setting. We vote first on proposal No. 5, from Per Ove Wide on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1861	Five proposals were presented. It is not necessarily in the cards that it should be voted on as from proposal No. 5 and up, so on behalf of the government parties I would like to propose that we vote for proposal No. 1 from the Labour Party, first, and that we vote for the related proposal of the Progress Party, No. 5, then finally. Proposals Nos. 1 and 5 belong to thematically.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1866	These are two very different proposals. But if it's a people's claim, then we'll do it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1869	It's true, as Martin Engeset says, that these are related proposals, as both have as an operational part to ask the Government to ensure that the Lista Air Station is returned to the state. One proposal has a specific desire for what it should be used for, the other is very, very woolly, and so you really don't have any purpose in what it should be used for, but you just want to buy it to the state. I think it is quite natural, as Mr Engeset has suggested, that we vote for proposal No first. 1 and then on proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1874	It is common practice in Stortinget to vote on the proposal from the smallest fraction first and move upwards. It therefore suggests that we vote on the proposals of the Progress Party first, and I would like to make a concrete proposal on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1879	Are we going to vote on the vote now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1882	That's perfectly normal, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1889	The President notes that there is a majority in this Chamber for the voting order proposed by the representative Engeset. Is it okay then that we do it this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1892	I just want to point out for the record that this is a game in relation to what is going to be majorityd or not, and the voting order it is now being put up to prevents us from getting a majority for something that is majority for here in the hall, that is, that it should do something in relation to Lista Airport. I understand that there's someone who wants that order because they don't want it to be a majority here. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1897	Just to make it clear, it's the majority in the room that decides how to vote. I would also like to remind the assembly that in an earlier airport branch it was such that the voting order was changed in this house. At that time, the Workers' Party proposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1902	When two different proposals are put forward, it tends to be the hall through voting which decides which proposal is adopted. We very often have situations where it is quite reasonable that the president can assume what will be the majority, based on looking in a position. We do not refuse to vote for the reason that most of us know in advance what the result will be. We carry out the formal voting, and I ask for that to be done. Two different proposals have been put forward, and we are voting on these proposals. Then I will refute the insinuation from Klungland that he can in some way know how all the representatives would have voted if there was a different voting order. He has no knowledge of that, and he does not know that if it goes the way we think about the voting order. It is not uncommon in large and important cases that the voting order is quite crucial. And finally, there may be a lot of people who have to learn that you shouldn't take the given voting order, and that it's always the Progress Party that's going to be forced to do a subsidiary voting. Others can actually get into the same situation, and there should be quite a few of the parties in the hall notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1914	It's common, as the president has suggested, to follow a voting order with the smallest fraction first, but when there's a wish in this room, it's going to come to voting. I would like to support the President putting forward an alternative vote between the President's proposals and Martin Engeset's proposals. Then the hall will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1919	The President will then alternately vote between the President's motion for a resolution and the motion by the representative Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1931	It is then first voted on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the list of air carriers is returned to the State in order to allow the public to exercise its right of pre-emption in line with other operators.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1946	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-4, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to provide a comprehensive overview of the extent and estimated costs of implementing the so-called Gulf Programme.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment without delay of a selection capable of reviewing management, organisation and governance issues in the defence sector.’ Proposal No. Four sounds. ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case to the Storting as soon as possible for the future organisation of the coordination of political and military management, also in the light of the need for improved business management.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1973	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the withdrawal of Lista Flystation and for the establishment in this area of a closed reception for asylum seekers who have been definitively refused their asylum application and asylum seekers who, because of their behaviour or the assessment of the authorities, should be in closed reception.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e1996	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2289	The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2309	This number of spaces is going to be I wrong, but it's going to be II.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2336	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Morten Højlund, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 2 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a common clearing authority subject to the NSN and to maintain its own intelligence clearance authority, applicable specifically to the intelligence service.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2354	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 2 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Storting with an evaluation of the system of decentralised clearing structure in view of a possible narrowing of the number of clearing directors’ powers.’ The President expects that it may now be appropriate for the Progress Party to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2372	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ola D. Glötvold, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-4, from Ola D. Lubricating violence on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review all aspects of possible health damage to dental professionals as a result of exposure to mercury during work with amalgam and to submit the case to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2396	So it's going to be a bit of an alternative between the setting and the proposals from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up clear guidelines for the refurbishment of the dental restoration material amalgam and to establish an approval system based on both the competence of the practitioners and the requirements for protective equipment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive monitoring of the health problems that amalgam may have caused both patients and dental professionals. Knowledge and competence in this field must flow and be used in the faculties and in other relevant education.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a ban on the dental filling material amalgam and to establish an adequate treatment and rehabilitation offer for people with mercury-related diseases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2431	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-6, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision does not ask the Government in future agricultural negotiations to propose changes to market regulation, without having been dealt with in advance by the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2456	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to defer the planned transfer of control of the milk sector to the Competition Authority until the Enlargement has been submitted to it for a thorough assessment of the various aspects of such transfer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2471	The vote will be taken at the next voting time and at the next voting time. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for cows’ milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is made nationally.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘1. Proposal for a new agricultural agreement is not accepted.2. Existing arrangements for agricultural agreements are repealed.3. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for agricultural subsidies and other economic measures aimed at agriculture in the context of the ordinary government budget without prior negotiations.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the law on the acquisition of real estate [[Concession Act]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to repeal all specific rules governing the taxation of the agricultural industry in such a way as to make it equivalent to other industries.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted in compliance with the Law on the regulation of acquisitional livestock farming.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2697	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-4, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to stop the assessment of the further extension of the obligation to provide liquid products and to assess the ownership of TINE BA as market regulator.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2721	The vote will be taken at the next voting time and at the next voting time. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to abolish the market regulation of eggs and poultry, under the terms of the ‘Act to promote the turnover of agricultural products’.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to establish a legal and ownership distinction between market regulation and validity by adding the tasks of market regulation to a publicly owned company or State agricultural management.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to establish a legal and ownership distinction between market regulation and TINE by adding the tasks of market regulation to a publicly owned company or State agricultural management.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2756	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm presented four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. An alternative is to vote between the position and the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit the necessary proposals in the notified reindeer management law, allowing the use of coercive measures so that the number of pure can be adapted to the fixed reindeer in West Finland to 64 300 animals over a short period of time and by 1 April 2006 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Proposals for a new reindeer management contract are not accepted.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Existing reindeer management arrangement is repealed.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for reindeer subsidies and other state financial measures against reindeer management in the ordinary state budget without prior negotiations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2842	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Åsa Elvik, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, and by Mr Odelstinget, on 10 June 2005. Here the rapporteurs have asked for the proposal to be converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The government is invited to come back with a proposal on how to apply local land charges, differentiated by type of farming, to the municipalities for the compensation of the State concession fee.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2854	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Øystein Hedstrøm, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of 10 June 2005 of Mr Odelstinget: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal to abolish the concession system related to the aquaculture industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e2872	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Øystein Hedstrøm, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of 10 June 2005 of Mr Odelstinget: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal to lift the number limit as regards the concession for salmon and trout.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e3155	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2005: ‘The Government is asking for a follow-up to quality requirements, not only through the Kindergarten Act and the Framework Plan, but also through equivalent pay and employment conditions for private and municipal kindergartens, and return to the State budget for 2006 with a plan for its implementation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e3173	The vote will take place on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, on a proposal from May Hansen, representing the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2005: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to the 2006 budget with additional funds to implement new law on kindergartens and the framework plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e3191	The vote will take place on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, on a proposal from May Hansen, representing the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2005: ‘The Government is asked to consider limitations on the possibility of making dividends on kindergarten.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e3209	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back in an appropriate form with a plan for enhancing competence in the kindergarten sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e3225	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to monitor child care activities in asylum recipients and to assess whether these activities should be included in the Kindergarten Act.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-2.ana.ud1359e3249	There is no record.
