ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e53	Requests for leave of 19 and 20 April to attend the Council of Europe Refugee Committee in Strasbourg are submitted by the representative André Kvakkestad. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e71	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e100	To date, the European Joint Aviation Authorities Cooperation Forum has been the central forum for regulatory development in the field of aviation safety of European aviation authorities. The Forum is linked to the European Aviation Organisation, which was set up in due course on the initiative of the Council of Europe. The EU has gradually found this scheme inappropriate and has therefore, in cooperation with the other participating countries, established a specific EU Aviation Safety Agency. That Agency shall establish and implement harmonised rules in this area more quickly and more effectively. The EU Agency has already taken over tasks from the cooperation forum on aircraft certification and maintenance. The PCF shall be closed when the EU Aviation Safety Agency has taken over all its fields of competence. The problem with this reorganisation is, in the view of the Coastal Party, that the EU is in practice taking over control of the development of aviation safety in most of Europe and that countries outside the EU become a sort of secondary participant in this system. Overall aviation safety legislation shall be adopted by the EU Parliament and the Council, while the adoption of more detailed implementing technical legislation has been delegated to the EU Commission. The EU Aviation Safety Agency will draw up legislative proposals. The EEA/EFTA States may participate in the Management Board of the European Agency and in the EU Committee to support the Agency, but they do not have the right to vote in any of those bodies. Participation in the EU Aviation Safety Agency does not involve the transfer of legislative or negotiating powers in international contexts. But it involves a certain transfer of jurisdiction and administrative authority. The European Agency and the Court of Justice of the European Union are empowered to take decisions on type-certification and airworthiness directives that will have a direct effect on private legal entities. Today, this authority is at the disposal of the Air Safety Authority and Norwegian courts. The European Agency shall cooperate with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, on the implementation of legislation. There is a high degree of consensus on the importance of civil aviation safety in Europe. The existing agency has been developed in cooperation with all participating countries in the PCF. The coastal party will therefore not vote against the proposed regulation in Stortinget. However, we would point out the unfortunate fact that joint and pan-European cooperation arrangements are replaced by mechanisms that give the EU full control. Should it prove that the Regulation creates problems in relation to aviation safety or that it does not work more efficiently than under a pan-European regime, the Coastal Party will be quick to review the system in the Stortinget. Furthermore, the Norwegian authorities should be more vigilant when changes take place that deprive Norway of the right to vote in the international cooperation forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e117	It is quite correct, as the representative Bastisen says, that we already have good cooperation internationally through the JAA cooperation body. What one will try to achieve with this innovation that is already established, that is, EASA, is an even more formalized collaboration. I am convinced that this will lead to a clearer regulation as well as a better regulation for air safety. It is also true that some minor functions, some minor responsibilities, are transferred from the Norwegian Air Safety Authority to EASA, but still – and that is quite clear – it is the Norwegian Air Safety Authority that has full and complete responsibility within Norway’s security limits. I believe that this will benefit aviation safety both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. Despite the objections made by Bastisen, I am convinced that this will be a good thing for Norwegian aviation too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e128	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e148	It is well known that the Labour Party has been and is opposed to much of the transformations and reorganisations that the Government has agreed with the Advance Party during this period. It applies to many sectors, not least the trade sector. However, we try to be constructive in relation to what is agreed, and if there are any rematches, we will rather take if there is a new multiple after the election. Today I am going to talk about a reorganization that we have largely supported, namely the reorganisation of the administrative part of the state road system. We were negative that all investment, operation and maintenance would be put off for competition, and we thought the majority went too fast. We were also negative that the production company should be organised as a limited liability company. Of course, there is a need to organise the administrative part. The reorganization of the State Road Administration, with the establishment of five regional offices and 30 district offices to replace former county road offices, would, according to the State Council's posts here in the Chamber on 13 December 2001, lead to: ‘The proposal will provide a more effective state road service, where less resources will go to administration and more money can be used for development, operation and maintenance.’ And on the other hand, ‘The reorganisation of the administrative part in five regions will also mean a clear decentralisation.’And:‘Local influence shall be safeguarded and strengthened in the reorganisation to take place.’ This was, of course, the Labour Party. The Labour Party has previously pointed out that the government party and the government council are not equal when they conclude that the state, or we, which are equal to the state, is getting more money. We also have a clear impression that the dialogue between the local and regional populace level and state road traffic control powers has been poorer, not better. In addition, the reorganization of road stations to make available their services to the state road authorities. I'll come back to this. In the introduction I would like to say that it was an announcement from a spokesman from the Christian People's Party, of course combined with a lot of input from municipal and county politicians, Norwegian media and add and users of the Norwegian route, which led to me producing this interpellation. I hope that the Council of State is willing to see the problems, and that she will sympathize with better living around the country. In a press release on the subject, the Council said: «The reorganisation of the management part and the transformation of the production activity into a state limited liability company strengthen the efficiency of the state road system.» She also said that smaller resources should go to administration, so that more money could be used instead on the road, for development, operation and maintenance. And it would benefit the whole country. The Workers' Party's commitment to the Decision was that such reorganisation should lead to a decentralisation, by delegating tasks from the Road Directorate to the five regions, and from the regions to the district road offices, while continuing to build on the existing environment of competence in the department both centrally and locally. We also had expectations that such decentralisation would lead to easier and better contact with local and regional authorities, with drivers and relevant organisations. The reorganisation has now been largely implemented, and the result is sadly discouraging: we hear and read almost daily about experiences of renunciation, about more bureaucratic decision-making processes and about less ability to decide and implement some minor improvements and limit maintenance. Here is a trick with examples, more or less concrete: Any completed runoff in Fredrikstad may have more than two months waiting to be launched. The trade union thinks this is coming from among others. In the last few years, the number of road stations has been low for two weeks, and one then cannot get answers to even the simplest questions. Professionals are concerned that after reorganization, redundancies can lead to poorer provision of training for drivers, no better, as the new driver training continues. Section leader of the Tor-Sverre Thomassen Road Directorate says to NRK Sogn and Fjordane that even if road maintenance posts have increased over the last few years, less money is seen in isolation to contaminate, because the licenses have gone for other purposes. He points out that the reorganisation is one of the reasons for this.In the municipality of Lund, Christian People's Party-Rapporteurs Kjell Erfjord found that after five months there had not been any response to the proposal from the municipality to decorate the entrance to the Moi Centre with flowers and plants. In the past, this was clarified in a conversation with the janitor. So this is also a result of the reorganization. Many local government and county council members report the same thing: the road is long and bureaucratic, bigger and smaller decisions are centralised, and the dialogue is difficult. He fears that this will lead to accidents. Both he and the vice-leader of the Norwegian Lastebileier Association in Sogn and Fjordane, Per Andreas Øren, find it difficult to see that road maintenance is prioritised by the Government. Regional Leader in the Norwegian Labour Union Helge Haukland also believes that whole reorganisation has been a failure. He's pointing, among other things. that the staff on the management side has increased by 250 years of work resulting from the competitive outsourcing. The big intentions of savings and more roads and road maintenance for the money have nothing to do with it, he says. This association organizes large parts of the members of Mesta AS, and they know well about the reorganization and the sequence that this has been given. Lars Erik Fuglesang from the Federation of Management and Technology, who organizes many on the management side, says that the distance to customers has been bigger and the service has been worse lately. He also says that unintelligible redundancies combined with extensive use of consultants are at work.The Managing Director of Lastebileier-Verbundet Gunnar Apeland recently asked questions in a lecture about most of the claims about how well this reorganisation has been. He pointed, among other things. the fact that there are often subcontractors, not the main contractors, who are assigned a mandate from the State Road Service and who have to pay the fines which are imposed because of a lack of follow-up to the conditions. He also pointed out that contracts must be designed so that entrepreneurs are paid to do good work and not, as they are now, to make the least possible possible. We are told that this was better before, that the road is not broken and trampled as before. To me it seems that the professional mind has been tried and replaced by clearly specified demands at millimetre level. In the case of x mm of snow on a path with y daily traffic, it shall not, or shall not, strike. This has led to unsafe roads and accidents. All these can't be wrong. Of course, there are not scientifically documented tests, but there are good enough everyday examples to help investigate the situation more closely. Many examples come from people who work on the road, and from people who represent many drivers. A research group from the Institute for Research at the Institute of Labour also looked at the experiences of Vegvesen in relation to remote work in connection with the reorganisation. After the new model, you should maintain special competence in the various offices. In practice, this has led to the addition of small groups to their local offices, while the bosses are quite different. It worries us in the Working Party that the researchers have found that it is very different how this works. An investigation carried out by ‘Road and We’ shows that road maintenance has been worse since the reorganisation. Local newspapers are streaming over messages from missing road users who say it was better before. The Labour Party has still argued and I believe that the Road Administration of the State should have sufficient production capacity to operate strategically in the market, and thus act as a market correction. It does not apply at least on the operating and maintenance page. Now the State Road Service has hardly a spade that an engineer or a tradesman can use when he sees a hole in the road. Now, the Road Service's role is to make the most of it. Small and large tasks cannot be solved immediately. Then the Road Service can verify that the person who got the job has done his job in relation to the announcement and the specifications. All this takes time. All of this requires staff, and it costs money, money that could be used on the road. In the past, the Swedish Road Administration had completed plans and projects, so that work could be carried out on an ongoing basis. A plan reserve was found which does not exist in the new system. This is probably the reason why it was left about last year. 750 million. kr, which was not used up, at the same time as the whole country yelled for more money for road and road maintenance. In addition, it is quite incomprehensible that the State Road Administration uses hundreds of millions of external consultants at the same time as they do. This is not only expensive, it is completely incomprehensible, especially for those who have to go. Information we have received suggests that the distance to the public, municipalities and county municipalities has increased with the new model, that the local road offices have too few powers, and that decisions are likely to be centralised and red tape – not the opposite. This is not a sumulation. These are many testimonies from many individuals, organisations and politicians at local and regional level. I say again: all of these cannot be wrong. I'm excited about the answer from the Council of State, which I hope you'll take this as constructive input, not as surmising criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e238	I can already promise that I'm going to follow developments here and look at all the constructive input. The transformation of the state road system now taking place has significant organisational and manpower challenges. New organisational units are established. Responsibilities, roles and new cooperation patterns shall be developed both internally and externally. The aim is for the State Road Service to have an annual savings of approximately 350 million. kr as a result of the submission of tenders for all tasks relating to the construction and maintenance of the road network. At the same time, the establishment should increase the efficiency of its activities and reduce the number of annual works of about 1000. Once all measures have been implemented, the ETF will have an efficiency gain on the management side of about 500 million. kr per. year in relation to 2001. This adds up to an annual savings of 850 million. kr, which can then help to give people around the country better and safer roads, I will first mention the manning situation. So far, the state road service has had a net downsizing of about 750 mills during the conversion period. Further downskilling will be carried out in the last half of 2005. However, the size of the crew must be continuously adapted to tasks, the financial framework and the need to maintain the necessary professional competence. Due to increased activity, in particular in the case of road safety measures and development projects, to which this government has given great emphasis, a crew of more than 4 250 annual works may be required. Internal studies conducted by the Vegvesen show that the follow-up of the intelligibles has worked satisfactorily. Efficiencies will continue after 1 January 2006 and will form an important part of continuous improvement work. Efficiency gains on the management side were planned early in 2001. Experience shows that the withdrawal of the gains is somewhat slower than expected at the start of the conversion work. Although the downsizing occurs at the scheduled rate, the economic gains in the form of lower compensation of employees will come one to a year and a half after the downsizing has taken place. This is due to the fact that surplus amounts are given one year of transition and that the costs of using different types of instruments are incurred during this period. The highest efficiency gains on this side will only come in 2006 and 2007. Road services estimates show that the originally foreseen efficiency gain appears to be achieved. The challenges of the road system in the construction sector have been particularly great since the separation of production activities. In 2002, the capacity of the builder function was distributed between management and production. It was necessary to make an appropriate sharing of those competences. It was important to give Mesta AS competitively neutral assumptions when faced with a competitive situation, while ensuring that the management side could address the challenges of full competitive outsourcing both in installations and in the operation and maintenance of the road network. It takes time to build good construction environments with sufficient capacity. This has been a demanding job for the department. The outsourcing has produced good results for the operational and maintenance side. I have been informed that the net gain is about 10-15 pst. in relation to the transitional contracts concluded with Mesta AS. As far as the investment side is concerned, there is currently considerable uncertainty as to the development of the market situation in the construction industry. The latest investment transition contracts concluded with Mesta AS were phased out in 2004. Since then, the Road Service has had to deal with the requirement to establish a formal basis for competition. Even for small contracts – at the lower limit of NOK 200000 – the process up to the conclusion of the contract and the start of the plant is resource-intensive. This is an important cause of minor consumption in 2004. A year may elapse from the design/production of a competitive basis to the start of construction. However, the ETA has carried out analyses, and will implement several measures to further strengthen the builder’s competence. Furthermore, the capacity to develop a competitive base is significantly increased, the strengthening of competences and changes in the contract strategy are some of the measures implemented. The interpellation shows that information from the outside suggests that the distance to the public, including municipalities and county municipalities, has increased and that decisions appear to be centralised. To that I have the following comment: One of the reasons for regionalising the State Road Service was to strengthen the coordination of the transport system across the county borders. It is important to ensure comprehensive assessments and to strengthen the strategy and specialisation tasks of regions where the old road offices were too small. Much of the basis for coordination within the region shall relate to strategic choices, budgets, major projects and tasks in high-traffic roads, tribal roads, public transport, etc. These are tasks that require strategic knowledge, but at the same time need to be based on extensive cooperation with the districts and the local knowledge they have acquired. The establishment is continuously focusing on the division of roles between the regional road office and the regional road offices. The challenge for the Road Administration will be to strike a balance between decentralisation of tasks and regional governance in order to achieve economies of scale and efficiency. In some cases, regional governance and priority will necessarily lead to local disagreement. However, the state road authority does not find that there is such a disagreement with the county authorities on the priority of investment projects, either in the case of other national road networks or in the case of the tribal roads. Discussions mainly address the overall level of appropriations for road purposes and the size of the distribution to the various counties. However, these issues are further addressed through the current treatment of the action programme. The regional offices thus have a slightly different function from that of the district offices. District offices are mainly responsible for all operational tasks. Simultaneously, efficiency, quality and uniformity requirements shall be respected. So district offices will be mainly concerned with the carrying out of the operational tasks, except for the particularly large projects, they will serve the audience, and they will carry out first-line handling of administrative matters. Otherwise, district road offices have essentially the same powers as those of the former road offices. Feedback from the Swedish Road Administration suggests that the proximity of municipalities has increased. Maintaining good contact with county municipalities has also been an important area for the Vegvesen in a new organisation. However, I have been informed by the Directorate of Roads that there are some miscretion registered. This will be followed up with direct contact and new user surveys. I would like to stress that I have received mainly positive feedback on the reorganisation. The State Road Service will carry out an external evaluation of the overall objectives of the transition. Such an evaluation will provide the most reliable response once the organisation has done so, but continuous assessment and implementation of improvements is important. In addition, the department itself carries out a number of analyses and evaluations of disciplines as a basis for making internal adjustments in new organisations. This concerns, for example, the analysis of services and tasks in the road transport and vehicle sector, the construction activity, road safety work, financial management, etc. When the whole process is over, I think it is important that an evaluation be carried out both of the process and of the result. I would like to say that as extensive a change as the state road system is now taking place, it will necessarily take some time to complete it. In my opinion, however, the transition is so far successful. I would like to stress that the feedback I have received has probably been a little more nuanced than what the representative Ausdal Starrfelt has presented. In order to ensure that the conversion takes place in accordance with Storting's assumptions, I have actively followed the work of the State Road Administration. Of course, I will do this in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e268	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. I think the council took the issues seriously, and I'm glad. As politicians, we have to be socially critical, and that sometimes means that we have to be self-critical, and we have to say that something we thought should be, maybe not what we had thought. For me, and for us in the Labour Party, this seems to be the case in this case. We were for the reorganization of the administration part, but we're willing to evaluate whether it was tricked. I have to say that what I might react most to is the state council's claim that proximity has increased. It sounds very strange, when we know more than two-three around this country that is terribly dissatisfied with the proximity that one now has to the authorities on the roadside. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Vegvesen will have an external evaluation, because then we will get access to everyone involved and hear what all of me means – not the department’s assessments of how it is. It is clear that this is important, and there is one aspect, but it is quite important that many others and many others are also asked. I want to drill a little bit with the consultant's practice. Because when the Council of State says that this is going well, and we save money on it, does it think that someone has spent a lot more money on consultants than before? Or is it another problem? In the past, the road system had a significant research and development role for which it is now a little uncertain who is responsible, which was a little more independent of the more entrepreneurial research and development work. How has the Council of State intended to keep up with the research and development work in the sector, so that new knowledge can benefit everyone? So in the end, I might first be a little bit clumsy and say that with strategic knowledge, I understand. Not everyone can decide all questions locally. But to me, it seems very strange that we need strategic knowledge to decide what's going to be in a bed at Moi. So there must be some examples that when people pass on questions that have nothing to do with strategy, it has to do with general centralization. So this is going to be equal to the same thing. I've had it in the last few years. When you say a save up to 850 million. kr, is one equal to the same thing as the same thing? If you assume that when you put out a maintenance assignment on offer, does a condition change in relation to what the Road Service had when they had it? Does this mean that a person receives additional administrative costs because it takes more resources to put off competition than not to do it? Is one equal to the same thing in this context? And if you're not quite sure about that, I'm going to ask you once again to be careful that one compares to the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e283	First of all – to start with the last first: When we now assume that the State Road Service will have a greater function as a builder than they had before, I am also concerned that in some cases there could be more administrative expenses than it was before. Of course, I'm also concerned that we compare the same types of numbers, that it's the net effect you get, and that we don't just look at what it costs for the performer – that's the contractor who gets the job. We have to look at the whole price. That's what we're thinking about. What was the starting point for us was that we were going to have a net gain together. Once I've operated on the number 850 million. kr, it shall be the net gain expected to result from this reform. As far as strategic knowledge is concerned, I would also like to stress that such knowledge is to be found in the regional road offices, but it will often be based on competences more locally. This is why there is a need for dialogue between those who are closest to the challenges and those who are at regional level. Research and development are important. It is extremely important in this sector in general, for which the management side will have a responsibility. That's something we're concerned about both in the State Road Administration and in the Department. That is why we have chosen to place a heavy emphasis on research and development by the Department. So the question of consultants is to be involved: from time to time, we have given leadership from the authorities when it comes to involving external assistance. Perhaps there is a need to have a balanced assessment of issues to be addressed to the Storting, or there may be questions where maybe the competence of the exit point is not within the Road Service. Then Vegvesenet will be able to go out and pick up consultants. It is probably important to keep in mind that there is no over-consultation beyond what is necessary. But I believe that the way it is used today is both necessary and sensible. I would also like to stress that when we launch such a major reform – and this is a major reform – I have a fundamental belief that it is a right and an important reform. I noticed that the Labour Party was involved in taking the initiative for the reform, and it underlines that we all share a common view that this has been a great, great need. So I think we all have to constantly be on guard: do we do the right things according to the goals we have set ourselves in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e292	The Council of State used the term ‘efficiencies’, and I understand that. It's a word that resonates in today's modern society. And it's important that the state is as efficient and as rational as possible. But in a final calculation on efficiency improvement, there is a question of how much of the government's savings have been transferred to the public. It's kind of part of the whole social account, and it also has to come up in a different way. But if I can use the traffic stations as an example: you now put traffic stations in the cabin and the weather, and you probably have a reasonable reason to do that. Drunken traffic station, as an example that I know well myself, serves today approx. 100 000 people. Now the people of the Follo area must go to Oslo or to Fredrikstad. We are already seeing that the queues for driving training or getting a driving licence, etc., are increasing dramatically. The time it takes has already begun to increase relatively dramatically. The halls, which are completely modern, new and well manned, yes they don't even go for half machine – under it. And we ask, why? They have then been told that they are not allowed to carry out more than that and so many checks per. day, as part of the descent. In the EU, other controls on vehicles are an authority task. It should not be overlooked that it will also apply in Norway. And if you have then fooled up the possibilities of having halls to meet this requirement, we will face a situation where this needs to be rebuilt. In a reply to me – in a letter of reply a while ago – the Council of State has assured me that the offer in this particular area, with over 100,000 people, should not be reduced in any way. Already now we see that it actually happens. Then the council can answer, yes, but when it's all in place, it'll be better. I'm not going to dispute that, but at least we see that the audience in any case gets a completely different and problematic way of doing these services than what you have today. And so there's no small area, there's 100,000 people there. We also see that the important function of this work — training in schools, in kindergartens, the total local activity for which these excellent people have served in the field of road safety — is in the process of crumbling away. And it's quite obvious that the distance from Oslo to Fredrikstad is quite long.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e301	The interpellant said it was not surmuling she came along. No, we in the South would have said it was 10 minutes of rough. The interpellation from Ausdal Starrfelt does not come as a surprise, either for me or for the Right. The interpellant is very critical of what is happening in connection with the conversion into the state road system. We've seen in this period that the Workers' Party will not change, and of course they have full opportunity to do so. But the reality description given here is actually not the reality I'm experiencing. It seems like we live in two different worlds. The transformation that the State Road Service is now in is very demanding, and I want to pay tribute to the work that has been done so far. The inter-pellant must not forget that the implementation of the conversion is not completed. Work will continue until 1 January 2006 and an evaluation cannot take place until work is completed. The target is a saving of 350 million. kr per. years as a result of tendering for operations and maintenance. It shall be reduced by 1000 annual works due to an improvement in efficiency. Once all measures have been implemented, there will be an efficiency gain of 500 million on the management side. kr per. years. In total, this is going to be an annual savings of 850 million. kr. These are funds that are going to go further. The proximity of users, municipalities and county municipalities was and is an important part of the reorganisation, and the feedback I have received from my district and my region is that there is something that works very well with this reorganisation. If others have experienced something else, it's not sure it's the reorganization that's wrong, but it might be something in such a big process of conversion that actually has to be done, as it's called. Let us get the process in place, and let us wait for the external evaluation that the State Road Administration itself will launch in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e314	I'm fully aware of the production that Ausdal Starrfelt gives. She says they've been constructive and adaptable. Yes, she has even been occupied with holes in the way! This is almost leading people behind the light. The truth is that the Workers' Party and the Ausdal Starrfelt have on every occasion countered effective migration in terms of trade. It does not only apply to the road sector and the railway sector, it applies everywhere. And especially in the case of conversions that really give effect, like the transformation of the corporation Mesta – it was particularly countered by the Workers' Party. So, as the Council of State said, you have an annual savings of 850 million. kr on this. This is about the same as the Workers' Party's Appendix to the National Transport Plan. This means that if the Workers' Party, together with the other parties in the Red-Green option – in which I have a big problem seeing the green color – is to reverse this scheme, they will use up the road budget to stop the market from competing. In other words, we don't get five more flat ears in this period. When we look at the function contracts that have been announced, we see that they could have given up to 35 pst. in savings, savings that we could have used for more investment in the road, for more for road maintenance, for more for drilling. Ausdal Starrfelt brings up the need for increased maintenance, and then it becomes completely ridiculous. I fully agree with Mr Starrfelt that the need for maintenance is far greater than the budgets. We actually have a lag of 11 billion kroner, almost an entire road budget. But where's the money? Where's the money that Ausdal Starrfelt comes with? Bring the money that the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed in the State budget and in the National Transport Plan to seal the holes that Ausdal Starrfelt has suddenly been so occupied with, because they stop the races that she seems to give the impression that she is against. It's not useful to blame for the conversion. It's money that's going to – currency. So Ausdal Starrfelt says that she allows herself to be self-critical. No, she's not. The mistakes made by the Workers' Party according to Mesta, and the errors made in connection with the lack of appropriations, are not weighed at all, they come in new words. Ausdal Starrfelt goes on to say that she is critical of hiring consultants. Yes, if there are private consultants or engineering agencies that could have gotten the 750 million. kr that we were not allowed to use last year, so that more tenders could be made, the representative is critical of it, but if there are government employees, she is obviously not critical of it. In the case of traffic stations, the aim is to improve the provision of services to customers where they live. If we don't get to that, we'll see about it again. But that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e331	It is reassuring to hear that, in the opinion of the Council of State, the transition to the state road system is so successful. We know that the Council of State is actively following the work of the State Road Service to ensure that the conversion takes place in accordance with the Storting's assumptions. But it was amazing to hear the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt's reason for his critical interpellation at Political Quarter today early. There it was claimed that there have been bigger bumps in the roadways and that there has been a lack of piercing. I would think that up to several of these bumps and holes in the roads were probably there before the conversion was implemented. Then I think it is good to be able to show that our government has just given priority to removing some of these bumps by increasing the bet on maintenance, and that the reason for the conversion is to get additional funds for upgrading the road network. I would like to receive evidence that the holes in the roadway have increased since the conversion into the state road system was started. But I have a lot of understanding that the interpellant doesn't have the capacity to walk around with the thumb. It has already been demonstrated that the competitive outsourcing has produced good results for the operational and maintenance side. a net gain of 10-15 pst. provides significantly more maintenance for the money. This shall benefit users from fewer holes and bumps in the roadways. Then I would also like to stress the following: In the Christian People's Party we were prepared for such extensive conversion to take time and extra resources during the transition period. All conversion is challenging, both for management and for employees. I would like to commend all those involved in the conversion process who have contributed to a successful result so far. In the Christian People's Party we look forward to the planned internal and external evaluations of the conversion that will come. Only when good and comprehensive evaluations of the implementation of our decisions are available will we be fully aware of our assumptions and intentions. In the meantime, the Christian People's Party trusts that the Council of State will be involved in development and in the process will ensure that the process is conducted in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e344	I have noticed that the temperature of the debate is beginning to rise. I take that as a sign that the interpellation that Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is taking up is about a theme that is becoming more and more busy. It's the signals we get when we talk to people outside, both people inside the vegetarian and so-called ordinary people. There's reason to ask the question, has it become what we believed? I know that many people say that the negative experiences may have been easier to see than the positive ones as far as the transition process has been. Many people say that there is little to suggest that the savings have been as one believed. In my home country last week there was a debate in the media, among other things. in NRK Sogn and Fjordane. Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt pointed to the coming statements. I notice that the State Secretary, among others. reported to NRK that so far in the process there is a 45 million deficit. kr as a result of the switchover, but for 2006 and 2007 we will mark the gain. This is what the State Secretary said to NRK Sogn and Fjordane. What I thought we should pay some attention to is that there have been several signals, including from the vegetarian himself, that the conversion has not been exactly as one had planned, in these years that have passed. Some of my e.g. the planned downturn in the State Road Service can be difficult to implement if the ordering role is to be delivered in the best possible way after the offer has been completed for all projects and all maintenance. Among the critical objections that have come up against the conversion is that the Road Service is not good enough as a builder. The capacity has not been adapted to the work of the new supply regime either. At least it has been said that this is one of the reasons why the promises have not been used up every year after the reform has been implemented. From some states, we also get to the right, as they are in the middle of the priority of the action programme, that they are signaled by the Vegvesen that they do not have the capacity to plan and be builders of the projects adopted by the county. I still get references from so-called ordinary people who think that road maintenance has become worse. I have recorded that the number of complaints on road maintenance has increased sharply throughout the country. Therefore, it is not surprising to announce the Road and We No. 6 has ‘severe dissatisfaction with functional contracts’ as a heading on the front. There are also professionals in the State Road Service who are critical of the way these contracts are carried out. My conclusion, therefore, is that there is reason to follow closely the development of the vegetate. I am glad that the Council of State also signaled that she regards it as an important part of the work ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e361	The interpellant has focused on an incredibly important area of transport. First of all, has the efficiency and downsizing of the Road Service with over a thousand people given more money? And: is the result of the five regional offices and the 30 district offices the ideal for a decentralised model? It's, as many people have said, that we've got a lot of ideas about the experience that users have: the functional contracts for winter maintenance, where the roots are far too long, worse than before, the contractors take better care than getting expensive material, for example. for planing. The result is several accidents, several runs, larger payments from insurance companies – i.e. more expensive socio-economic, but perhaps cheaper to run the road, isolated. The operational lines of the district offices will be removed. Knowledge is there, but everything to do must be approved by the regional offices. This leads to unnecessary length of proceedings and unnecessary red tape, and the result is less money. In the old road service, the job was done when one had to, yes even done preventively. Almost everything has to be prepared for supply, lighted out and ordered. It goes without saying that this is where the winning goes into the spinning. An example of this is a reading in the Road and We No. 6 this year. It says that the government is purchasing consulting services for about 800 million. kr more in the year than the previous year, and mostly for planning and design. In the past, we have been informed that the budget was not used up in 2004. The result is frustrated knowledge-rich professionals who don't know what tomorrow will bring, and on the other hand, all states spokesmen and spokesmen in the country screaming for better directions. The threshold for feedback on how a person experiences the work situation has increased. The Road Directorate behaves more than ever as a state of the state, almost totalitarian. It's still on the machine's side now. This policy leads to more money in their box. That's the result, when one doesn't compare to the same -- no more money to go, which we all so badly need, and which we've been tuned in by the bourgeois side. The government party is satisfied with what is happening. It is the political direction that prevails over common sense. It scares us in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e386	I'm an economist of education, and by so-called witty tongues it is sometimes said about us economists that we're the only group in the world who can see one thing work in practice and yet be concerned that it shouldn't work in theory. Now we've got a good company from the Workers' Party. Most people see that the heavy conversion processes we've been running have worked and produced results. The working party has been against it and is constantly trying to tell you, people, this is not working! The working party opposed what we did in the aviation sector. We got the passenger fee down, we got more competition, and that gave people the most opportunity to use planes both at work and in leisure. The working party opposed the conversions in Avinor. Now we see the results of what we managed to accomplish, we get a real expansion at many of our airports, we get lower charges, we get charges that make SAS might start flying more over Norway, and not fly so much over Sweden, as they have partly done because the fees are too high. The Labour Party has opposed the separation of Mesta, the Workers' Party opposed the competition at Vegvesenet. So here we see clear results. Nevertheless, the Labour Party claims that this is not working. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get There's no reason to say that everything is very well, we should be so honest that we say. It'll take a while before this starts to give you 100 pst. rash. Among other things, it has become very expensive – yes. It's because people who were superstitious should have a proper statement to search elsewhere. It's also been a part here that hasn't been quite good with the maintenance. It's always been. But now, when we have separated responsibility and execution, we have far more opportunity through reward systems and through criminal systems to demand that such things be corrected. And, as the Council of State was about, this will work. There have also been criticisms from the interpellant that there is a lot of money that is not being spent. There's also something we see from year to year. It is money that goes out in January and February next year. Of course, they could have been used faster, but they are used. It may be that the conversion is part of the explanation that approximately 700 to 750 million. kr was unused at the turn of the year. But that's also another explanation. We will remember that after ten years of decline in the roadways under the Labour Party and previous governments, we have now been able to reverse that trend. We've got a massive increase: 2.5 million. kr on an annual basis for national roads. This powerful increase is probably also a reason why we're now increasing the permissions so fast that we can't use them up. But we need to make sure we can do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e403	I will first be allowed to thank the Workers' Party for showing such a great interest in the way. But I don't believe anything particularly in that interest. I guess that's because it's about to be a choice. In the four years that have gone on the Committee on Transport, I have heard from the representative Starrfelt only about trains, trains, and trains. In addition, I have heard rehearsals about a certain freight terminal in Gangdal. And today it's the flowers of Moi we hear about. The reorganisation is discouraging, says Starrfelt, it's a failure. Then I'll just quote from a newspaper here, and that's not the newspaper of the Progress Party. It's from Vegen and We. It says in the case of Region west: «... total cost estimate for the year's contracts of approx. $500 million. The result is that the cheapest offers add up to less than $400 million." In addition, it says: ‘Also in the East Region there are reports of eye-catchingly low prices of functional contracts. For the six contracts in this region, there is an annual savings of SEK 86 million in relation to the prices of today’s transitional contracts with Mesta.» [[!]] It's been like this the whole time since we started doing this. Even though there is only a downfall in the state road from 5,000 to 4,000, it is a happy step. But I have to bring one more thing, and that's that in Finland there are 1,200 people on the road, and there you have to go down to 750. There are still great savings to be achieved and a long way to go. I want to thank the Council of State for the work she has done. It's rare I commend the Council of State, usually I criticize her for getting too little money, but she's done a phenomenal job of reorganization. Should we go back to the Ap regime – what happens then? Yes, we need 850 million. kr more to go, it's probably going to be 1 billion. Then it was the Post. There's been a crew down there of 10,000, and the post office's going with a surplus of NOK 1 billion. Shall we go back there, as the Workers' Party will? We have the Swedish Aviation Agency, today called Avinor. There's a saving of almost $12 billion. We've got cheaper air fares. The air fare charges go down. Will the Workers' Party go back to the old, what was before, with monopolies and higher taxes? We have got a free slip on the express buses. What happened there? Well, we can go to Trondheim and Bergen for $49. That there is someone who will go back to the monopoly system of the Workers' Party, I do not understand. Now the NSB and the Railway Station are on their way. It's probably the largest colossal to turn around. But there are several billions to save, I am absolutely convinced – only the subsidies to the NSB are SEK 1.5 billion – and the railway works are one of the biggest wasters. And Telenor will now buy back the red-green option. What will that cost? I think the Council of State has done a good job. It's rare that I want someone to keep going, but we'll hope that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e431	I think it's an important matter the interpellant has traveled here today. In the case of conversion processes, I believe that the undersigned has a certain bearing. I think you should go by yourself and look at how you have implemented the transition – not the transformation process itself, but the way things are done. We could maybe have a separate debate about it. It is not at all to stick under the chair that there has been a lot of bread and circuses in this conversion time. Now we must not forget the employees in this situation either. So to the representative Kenneth Svendsen: I think it's a pretty rough claim that Svendsen agrees that the Workers' Party has opposed any change. That's what I think I'm going too far. With regard to the Progress Party and Kenneth Svendsen, as far as I can remember, most of the budgetary agreements have been included. There is only one person who has not been on the side of the Progress Party. Nor can I register that you have got so much more to do or so much more to travel. I believe that the representative Svendsen will now stop boasting of the Advance Party's appropriations for transport for which no real progress has been made. There'll be a lot of shrieks and shrieks. The party of progress has been the basis of the right-wing government, including in the case of transport. You have to stop running double bookkeeping from the Progress Party. I'm going to give one example of road maintenance, and it's self-experienced. On 21 March in the afternoon, I had been visiting Trondheim. I drove a car, and it was a pretty big snowfall. When I came to Steinkjer, the road up to Nordland was not broken. We were eight to ten cars that drove in queue, and we were more or less incubators on that trip upwards. I have asked myself the question: Is this maintenance that we will be familiar with? It's possible that it was a coincidence, but I don't think so. The road actually got better when we came to Northland, and I was happy about that. I think it is important to focus on this matter. So to the representative Nistad, whom I also have to pay a little visit: the Labour Party has been busy both on the road and on the track. The progress party is not occupied with the track, they are only occupied with the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e442	This is a very important debate. We're talking about how we manage the total resources of society. This government has not been a seat heater. On the contrary, they have gone to the very best of transforming the administration of Norway, so that we can better manage the large resources that we have in this nation, for the benefit of all of us – and in this context for road users, drivers and carriers. We want to get the most out of the resources. Among other things, we do. made by transforming administrative units, not least in the transport sector, into state limited liability companies, because we trust that the enormous competence of the administration means that they should have several more room for their creativity and inherent competence. We have confidence that free administration is the best way to do it. In addition, we have distinguished the elements of production in a number of companies, such as Vegvesenet and the railway system, precisely to give more money and resources for the benefit of users in competition with private – with one single goal in view. It's been the king's mind behind all the heavy administrative acts that this government has done, and we'll continue to do that even after the election. There is some wonder about the Workers' Party, which in 2001 signalled a modern form of administration in Norway under the Stoltenberg government. Away are all these thoughts from this period and these signals from the Stoltenberg government. Now it's a new direction, new patterns of cooperation, new course, new socialism. You want to go back to few powers, and you have to go back to monopolies. Fewer fields and monopolies have never been the best for users, for those who need society's resources the most. If the Workers' Party were to follow the signals they had in 2001 to reform Norway, it would at least go in the wrong direction. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to turn the heavy administrative bodies around, so that we know the difference between production and management, and that the money reaches the people who need it the most. And in the case of transportation, it's driver, it's road users, it's drivers, and it's carriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e453	I want to thank you for your commitment. I think it is good that there is pressure in this case. It must be brilliant to be both the Council of State and the Road Director and to be heard that policymakers are so preoccupied with the way and use of money. There have been many good articles, but some of them have been about something other than what I asked questions about in the interpellation. They've been talking more about how excellent a competitive exposure is more general. But it wasn't the interpellation. Interpellation actually applies to an area in which we support the conversions, but it did not go against them. It is a political distinction when it comes to putting off competition, but not in this case. When we are now critical in the process, we are also self-critical. Government says the transfer is later than planned. It may be – I ask the Council of State to think through it – that something needs to be adjusted in the course of the process. We should have an evaluation something later, and it may be that something needs to be adjusted in the course, because it wasn't what we thought. So Nistad says that Ausdal Starrfelt and the Workers' Party have no commitment when it comes to roads. Yes, yes, the Progress Party supported in the context of the National Transport Plan subsidiaryly an increase of DKK 10 billion to the road in the next ten years. But it was the Labour Party that was the road party when we handled the National Transport Plan, not the Government Party. I'm glad that the Council of State says that we should compare the same with the same thing, including the changes in the system. I'm saying that, in isolation, functional contracts are cheaper, but it doesn't help if we get more red tape for the money, no more for the money. I am also pleased that the Council of State confirms that research and development work should go ahead as before, not be reduced. That's what I'm not happy with, about consultants. I ask the Council of State to consider once again to look for, at least be absolutely sure that one does not buy in consultants who have the competence of the people that you win. Then you have to leave those people out and don't use any consultants. A consultant must be used at least possibly. But I see that it may be necessary, especially in this transitional period. The Labour Party took the initiative on changes in the Road Administration. We wanted a division model, and we would do it a little bit more gradually, and we were, as I said, for this. We're busy evaluating, and we're busy evaluating along the way. I hope that we can come back to this in a constructive way. And I'm going to say in the end: otherwise it's my opinion that we're going to have more money and more money to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e472	With regard to the use of consultants, it is believed that employees in the State Road Service have not been affected, because in these cases they are asked about the competence of the State Road Service. I think it's a relevant question that's being raised. We're going to be conscious of that when it comes to consulting. Then there was a claim that the queues for driving licences have become much longer, etc. To that I would say that there have always been seasonal cows for driving up to driving licences. This conversion work should not go beyond this, so it's important that we have it in mind. It's going to be a job for us to deal with these needs in a good way. I would also like to stress that there are many services that, through this conversion, are now more accessible to most people. That's also the goal. For me, it is important to have a high level of road safety. That's why it's important that we have more people in Vegvesenet who can get on the road to control, not sit in the halls and control, as other workshops do. Then it is much better that we have our officials on the road to check that traffic and vehicles are as they should be. As early as the early 1990s, an initiative was taken to reform the state road system, because it was then seen to be necessary. We've done a good job so far. I feel that this is a right and important work. We're on the right track, but we're not yet in the finish line. I believe that this debate is important. I would like to stress that you have to ask yourself if you've set the right targets and if you're doing the right things to achieve the goals. I want to say again, yes, I mean we had the right targets, we have the right targets, and we're on the right path. I have to say that I actually think much has gone better than I thought it would go, that we have achieved greater results. But in some fields we still have a job to do. That is why I think this debate is very good. In conclusion, when it comes to boasting, that we should not brag too much of what we have done, I would say, yes, I think we should boast of what this government has done, and of what we have got a majority on the Storting for, both in terms of reforms, conversions and the great effort we have had. When we have an increase of 3.4 billion kroner in the 2001 road budget, I actually think it is worth boasting about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e485	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e499	The private proposal of SV representatives Heikki Holmås, Geir-Ketil Hansen and Karin Andersen promotes five proposals: 1. on the legal status of non-returnable asylum seekers with final rejection and other non-reportable non-residents residing in Norway2. on the transfer of asylum seekers with final refusal to a waiting reception with access registration3. to increase police authorisation to hold people to be expelled or expelled from 24 to 72 hours4. on access to Swedish practice, where a new procedure is provided and reassessment of the possibility of staying for the same group after a specified period of time5. on the introduction of an independent review of cases to investigate what happens to persons after they have been returned to their home Member State From 1 January 2004, the Government introduced a new practice for asylum seekers with final rejection. The consequence was that this group lost its seats in reception and was deprived of all financial support, unless they cooperated on voluntary return. Several were thrown into the street. This affected a number of municipalities – municipalities that had to provide emergency assistance to the same group. For where would they live? What would they live on? The state waived its responsibility, and the municipalities were to take over. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre consider that it is unacceptable to transfer responsibility to the municipalities and will go in order to ensure a minimum of benefits – food, housing and necessary medical assistance. After the drafts, there was a series of letters back and forth between the municipalities and the state on the rights of these asylum seekers to receive assistance, the size of the assistance, and the duration of their assistance. It is not yet clear what the municipality minister really thinks is the responsibility of the municipalities in these matters. The working party entered in early September last year in order to establish a waiting reception. Before Christmas the minister was not willing to find out such a waiting reception; she did not see it as appropriate. But as early as March 9th this year, the Council of State was pressured to turn around. She gave the child a new name – the ‘exit centre’ – but the concept is the same. Today it gets the majority, and that's good. The proposers, as well as the members of the Centre Party, will grant persons with a final refusal to apply for asylum who do not repatriate voluntarily, new legal rights guaranteeing them the right to housing, food, economic benefits and health care, and they propose that they do so. The entire Committee agrees that applicants for asylum who do not wish to comply with a legally adopted decision to leave the State shall not be rewarded with a permanent residence permit. This group has been through all instances and has been refused. They do not need protection and are to be regarded as aliens residing illegally in this country. A majority, consisting of the members of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, will therefore not be in favour of a permanent, new status. But we agree that there is a need for clarification of the liability, the practice of emergency payments and an improvement in the control of those who live illegally here in the country. The members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right believe that the scheme should be marked by temporaryity and complacency, so that it does not appear attractive and contributes to making transportation more difficult. The Progress Party has completely different solutions, including: closed reception, but representatives of the Progress Party will certainly come up with their proposals in their contributions. Until waiting reception is established, the members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party believe that no one should be sent out of reception. In addition, it shall cover the costs of the municipalities which today must provide the necessary assistance to those already displaced from the receptions. The government parties and the Advance Party are opposed to this. We believe that this is not the responsibility of the municipalities, but the responsibility of the state. So to re-assess the possibility of staying with non-transportable non-residents: the majority – the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party – are not in favour of such a change in law. In line with the Foreign Law Committee, these parties believe that it is already the case today that those who have received a final rejection and are to leave the Kingdom may at any time request to have their case reviewed by means of a request for conversion. However, the Central Party and SV ask the Government to submit such a proposal, where automatic residence permits are more or less granted after a certain number of years. With regard to the final point in the SV’s proposals on finding out what is happening to asylum seekers who are being sent back, the majority consider that a search will be very resource-intensive and in some cases may endanger people by making contact with the Norwegian authorities after returning to their country of origin. However, the majority believe that assessments should be made at certain intervals for each country and region, and the experience gained with cases from these sites. It will also be important to carry out an evaluation in the context of our decision to merge the land units of UDI and UNE. The minority proposals will probably be well taken care of by the representatives behind them. Finally, internationalisation gives us a society of multiple languages, religions and ways of life. This diversity is enriching Norway, but at the same time it confronts us with new challenges – challenges that we have to deal with and which we are dealing with here today. But I think Norway should be able to cope with these challenges. They're not that big.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e553	The President will, since there is no limit to the debate, ask for an overview of those who will have the floor, to have the opportunity to calculate the time a little bit. We have a long list of cases today, and the president does not invite anyone to speak, but we want an overview of this and now – and it is reported to the secretary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e556	This Document No The 8 proposal concerns ‘measures to improve the treatment of non-returnable asylum seekers with final rejection and other non-reportable non-residents’. I want to make some clarifications first. In the debate on non-returnable asylum seekers, those who are unwilling to return after rejection are often mixed with those who are not allowed to enter their country of origin, even after considerable self-help and also after working with the authorities. So here we have two completely different groups that have to be treated differently. All asylum seekers who have received a final rejection of the asylum application are offered a return to their country of origin with the International Organization for Migration, with us called the IOM. This organisation covers travel expenses to the country of origin, provides travel expenses and assists, inter alia. with information, advice, assistance in obtaining travel documents and assistance during the journey itself. Persons who have been refused the asylum application but who cooperate with the IOM on return may remain at the asylum office until they return to their country of origin. It also provides for single minors, families with children and individuals who have been granted a special exemption, including serious sick persons. These retain the reception point even after the final refusal. So this is the one group. What this matter concerns is the persons who lose their reception because they refuse to return, or refuse to cooperate with the IOM. These will lose their accommodation, i.e. their diet and their lodging, in reception from the time the departure period expires. They do not have legal residence in Norway. For us in the Right, it is very important that we do not create schemes that reward those who do not comply with legal decisions. I think it is worrying that the proposers will give persons without legal residence in the country ‘legal status’, with legal rights that guarantee them the right to housing, food, economic benefits and health services. The right cannot stand behind this. Asylum seekers who do not wish to comply with lawful decisions shall not be rewarded. This will be undermining the entire asylum institute. It is important to maintain that the institution of asylum is to be used exclusively to provide international protection to persons who fear persecution in the light of ethnicity, nationality, religious and political views or membership of a special social group. These criteria are also reflected in the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees and subsequent protocols. Some things often get a lot of attention in the media. However, if asylum cannot be granted because of non-compliance with the criteria, the foreign authorities shall always carry out an assessment of the existence of strong human interests or of specific links with the State which requires the granting of a residence permit. Many applicants for asylum do not fulfil any of these conditions and are then refused. So to say all the rejections in the Foreign Affairs Directorate are complained about for the Foreign Affairs Department, which is doing a new treatment of the case. In some cases, the decision of the foreign student shall be referred to the courts. So there is a very thorough examination of each case. I find reason to say a little about this, precisely because the media often produce difficult individual items in such a way that you would think they have not been properly treated. In this case it is also proposed to extend the manufacturing period from 24 to 72 hours. This is justified by the fact that the alienation unit of the police should be better able to coordinate the deployment of asylum seekers. The Government has already consulted on such a proposal, but the hearing bodies have been critical, in particular of the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights. The right wants a closer investigation of this, particularly in relation to the prison provisions for persons with a unclear identity where there is a risk of escape in the context of transportation and where persons have been expelled or expelled. Proposalers would like to further explore the waiting reception system. On 1 March the Ministry began this work and asked the UDI to draw up proposals for the organisation of such a centre. Dear child has many names, and the exit centre is intended to be an offer to persons without having to stay until they can leave the country. The right considers that it is important that this centre be characterized by temporaryity and soberness, so that it does not appear attractive and helps to make transport more difficult. I fully agree with what the Labour Party representative said on the matter. It's important to have clear rules that are simple to practice. Assessing the emergency legal provisions for those who are illegal here has proved to be challenging. On the one hand, we have people who despite Norwegian law and remain in the country despite a final rejection, but on the other hand, we cannot be passive witnesses that people in Norway are starving and freezing. This has proved to be a very difficult balance for those who are to practise the rules. An exit centre will be a uniform offer that replaces the emergency service of municipalities and allows us to land this case and these individual cases in a better way in the future. The proposers also want a new legal base in line with the Swedish one, which implies that the final refusal to apply for asylum ceases if the decision is not implemented within four years. The residence permit is then not granted automatically, but is subject to individual treatment. If the non-return is due to the failure of the applicant to comply with the decision, this could have an impact on the application. The right believes that such a rule is a kind of premiere of those who do not comply with Norwegian law. The applicant for asylum is obliged to comply with the decisions taken. Such a permit could motivate even more people not to go home on a voluntary basis. This has been previously assessed by the Foreign Law Committee, which also did not support such a permit. The reasons included: the general preventive considerations. It is also the case that there is already a basis for granting a residence permit in cases where the applicant has cooperated on the return, but where this has not been possible. For example, this will apply to stateless persons, or where the applicant comes from a country that refuses to accept them. Therefore, the right does not see the need to introduce such a rule in Norwegian law. The final proposal is to seek independent quality assurance of the negative decisions of UDI and UNE which end in transmission. Once a person has received a final rejection, this is done after a thorough assessment of the need for protection. Post-dispatch detection will be very resource-intensive and, in some cases, may also endanger the person by contacting the Norwegian authorities after returning to the country of origin. Such a review is unnecessary in terms of resources and is impracticable. In addition, it is difficult to see what new information the Norwegian authorities will receive from such a review. Already today, the Norwegian authorities are usually made aware of cases in which a person who is sent home is encouraged. In these cases, more detailed studies are carried out and an assessment of the existence of circumstances requiring action, either in the specific case or in the case of asylum practices relating to the area or group concerned. Therefore, the right does not support a proposal to review individual cases. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party that Document No. 8:26 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e597	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e600	The proposal of the Socialist Left is largely promoted in the context of the tightening up of asylum policy which resulted in the loss of the right of financial support for asylum seekers who are finally refused their application and who do not voluntarily cooperate on return. The proposers point out that this is unsustainable, because these asylum seekers are driven out into the street without the authorities having a clear idea of what to do with them. The proposers have the opinion that this also runs counter to human rights. I understand that, and it says respect. However, from the point of view of almost claiming and pointing out that asylum seekers in Norway are not legally provided with their legal status, it is well worth walking. Here I think the representative from the Right, Kari Lise Holmberg, had a clear and very good and detailed description of all the opportunities that asylum seekers have to be given in relation to legal certainty. The proposers also propose the establishment of a legal status for those who cannot be returned in order to bring their rights closer. I haven't, to put it that way, been creative enough to imagine a legal status that would improve their status compared to today. But I agree that the problem with the tightening up that came was that these people ended up on the street and disappeared into different environments. That is why the Progress Party has also had a very clear and firm position on how to deal with asylum-seekers with final rejections that are opposed to repatriation. We stand firm that the best and safest solution would be to place these people at relatively closed reception, with minimal support, while using several strings in an active foreign policy to get asylum seekers' homelands to accept return. At least I have come to understand that the Government has taken it inward, and I hope that the Council of State can also clarify it in its article. And as I have said, according to the point of view of the Advancement Party, these people's situation is sufficiently clear. No new rights are needed. That is why we have also called into question the proposal on waiting reception, as this is really just a new word for the already existing reception. Today, we have the traditional old asylum reception concept, and we have decentralised reception, and we have reinforced reception, and we have asylum prisons, as some people also call it, and now we have to have a waiting reception, as the government rejected on 23 December 2004. However, as they have clearly come up with a new concept – they are creative in the department – we are now going to have something called the "exit centre". As for the name of the next centre or reception, everyone can only submit proposals to the ministry, and one could introduce the best proposal. This doesn't solve the problem, this solves nothing. I have also registered that the representative Kari Lise Holmberg was quite clear that the Right, and thereby I am also counting on the Government, would not under any circumstances reward those who opposed their departure. And then my question is, what is it about this exit center that is different from the traditional receptions? One thing is maybe that the turnout is a little bit worse. We have not discussed the standard yet, but I have understood that at least the infrastructure should be such that it is possible to reach them, and that it should be difficult to get out of there. So what's the difference? When you set up an exit centre with free movement, with food and lodging, it will be a clear signal that – what the representative Kari Lise Holmberg was so concerned about and a little worried about – if you oppose departure, there will be food and lodging. Therefore, this will simply be a signal that will cause even more people to oppose departure. They know they have a buffer in the background where there is food and losji, and then they will use their free movement in the Norwegian community to find their way in. Because there should be no pocket money here. And these people, who are likely to be living here for years, will have to search out to find some pocket money. How they want to do that, you can just wonder. We have free debate, but I am not going to spend much more time in today's debate, except to promote our traditional, good, thought-out proposals and the solution of the future. One can only hope that the Council of State and the Government will do an equal amount of curfew now in relation to the departure centre and closed reception as they did in the case of waiting reception on 23 December and the exit centre on 9 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e613	The President reminds us that there is free debate, but that doesn't mean that you need to use your speaking time options to make too long speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e616	Although sitting in a minority on the Stortinget is generally a persistent sport best suited to massochists, sometimes we win things – not just because we are right, but because the arguments are irrevocable. The matter of non-returnable refugees is such a matter. The refugee debate is a debate full of shades, where the colors black and white are not suitable to describe reality. Just as little as it is right that anyone seeking asylum in Norway is actually real refugees, it is just as little right that anyone who refuses an asylum application is happier than anyone who has absolutely no reason to escape. It is in this light that we need to look at the treatment of people with final rejections of asylum applications who do not want to go back where they fled. It is inhumane for a state of law to force desperate asylum seekers from totalitarian and war-torn countries to leave Norway by throwing them into the street and taking away their food. We have been in contrast to everything since the government started to do so, from 1 January last year. That is why we proposed – the proposal we are discussing today – that no asylum seekers should be rejected in the street, but that they should be offered a place in a waiting reception with a minimum of money, and with the possibility for us to assess whether we can grant a work permit to those we know who is, but we are not sent back. Although the Council of State Erna Solberg has argued against our proposal in a letter by letter, and I must say in a debate after debate, we are pleased that she has crept to the cross and admitted that it is she and not the municipalities – not her personally – but that it is the authorities, that it is the state and not the municipalities, who are responsible for asylum seekers from the moment they arrive or they are allowed to stay. We are happy about that, but I have to admit that I think the Council of State, Erna Solberg, owes these people that she's been holding for six months, an apology. It is such that in the first letter we received in the committee, it became clear that this was one thing she was totally opposed to. But in the last letter that came, she found out that she was going to twist a little bit on our proposal, not call this waiting reception, but call it the departure centre, and tightened it further in relation to the practice that has been there from the previous governments, it being the previous Bondevik government or other governments from the Workers' Party before that. What's the problem with Councillor Erna Solberg is that she won't take inward that some people are going to be here for a long time because they're too afraid to go home voluntarily. Take the one Ethiopian oppositional who was with us at the Stortinget: He was shot in the head of the authorities and had a chin in his forehead. He left home – he was in and off quite prosperous where he came from – because he was too scared. UDI and UNE believe in him, but will not give him residence, because they think it will not happen again. It's okay, but I understand that he's afraid to go back to Ethiopia. Take her who has been dragged into the Supreme Court to be thrown out of the reception in Svolvær: She has a brother who is in the guerrilla, and a father who was killed. She was turned on unhealthy and urinated. The foreigners believe in her, but believe that it will not happen again. I understand that she is afraid to go back voluntarily again. In Oslo Cathedral, there were several – they also met people from the municipal committee – who starved to get their affairs discussed again. According to the NOAS, three out of four people who have been dealt with their cases again have been accommodated. But they were to be starved to leave this country. The point is not that anyone seeking asylum in Norway should be allowed to stay. But Kari Lise Holmberg from the Right has not taken inward the basic features, namely that we should have formal rules that we believe everyone should follow. But when it is that we are unable to implement our own decisions, we need a code that gives us some space to deal with reality. For this reason, we have proposed the possibility to reopen cases after a few years, in the same way as in Sweden, and in the same way as in Denmark, a practice for which the Directorate of Foreign Affairs has recommended the introduction of Erna Solberg here in Norway. But there she does not listen to her own office because she wants a strict policy. It is formalism that is not adapted to reality and that is not adapted to human needs. We have a limitation period in criminal law, we do, even on crimes of some severity. And then I believe that we should have the same kind of limitation period, with the possibility of re-treatment, in the matters that we are talking about here. That is what we are proposing. It is therefore true that if you flee from military service in a dictatorship committed by military abuse, you will not be allowed to stay automatically. If you are a student protester who is forced to crawl on glass choirs during a two–three-month period in prison, you do not necessarily get to stay in Norway. SV believes that the boundaries are currently being too strict, and we believe that several of these victims of authoritarian regimes need to be understood, and at least not be treated without fundamental respect. Some of the actions we carry out in Norway are contrary to UN recommendations. It has been answered by the Council of State in the past. The case concerns Chechnya, to a certain extent Afghanistan, and that concerns Somalia. UNE, a foreign student, has been on the municipal committee and explained this. Other of our actions are contrary to the recommendations of other human rights organisations, such as Amnesty, who recommend, for example, that people not be sent back to Ethiopia and Eritrea. It is precisely for this reason that we have considered it important to have a review, also by independent bodies, of the country assessments made by the foreign authorities, but also a review of individual cases. Here I'm a little fascinated by the Right, because this party, which is largely sceptical about bureaucracy, is therefore fully convinced in this context that bureaucracy is never wrong. I believe that the chances of making some mistakes in bureaucracy are greater than the chances that everything is always quite right. We have an example with an Iranian asylum seeker who was sent back and who was killed. But we are not sure if this is due to faults in us, at least we have not received any notice of this to Stortinget. We also have an example with an Afghan lady who was sent back to Germany. Well it was the German authorities who were responsible for the lady, but I have not seen any self-examination from our side in retrospect as to whether we might need to change our practice, for example when a reception report that the lady is being threatened and has reported the relationship with the police. Maybe we should have done that. What is the difference between a waiting reception and an exit reception? The main difference is that Erna Solberg will not give any of the people who live there money, and she will not consider a temporary work permit. That means they'll be sitting far from the nearest place, without money and without any other than a roof over their heads, probably for years. It goes without saying that this is not a way to treat people. Some of these people may actually have been here for up to ten years and have been in work, and they are now losing their work permit. Regarding the closed receptions, I believe that there is no reason to lock people in. They're not criminals, they've done nothing but escape. The police report disappearing little crime among this group with people we talk about, and those who take care of it, or who in other ways are a threat to themselves or others, of course, we're going to take care of. That is a unanimous agreement. The proposals of the Progress Party are expensive, it is bad, and it is not least in violation of fundamental human rights, as the majority in the European Parliament sees it. With that, I want to take up the proposals from the minority that consist of the Center Party and SV. In some of the comments, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are the majority of the votes cast.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e650	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e653	There is no doubt that Norway's treatment of asylum seekers is extensive and thorough. She also takes a very long time, unfortunately. And I think there'll be some misassessments. It would be naive to say the opposite. There is a lot of beauty in the image, and then you might get some misappropriation. I am in agreement with the previous speaker. But we can't assume that those who have been denied have not been given a fair treatment. The Christian People's Party's starting point in this case is therefore that those who have received a final rejection – after a number of complaints, as the Right-Representative pointed out correctly – will leave Norway. Nevertheless, when we know that some do not, and we know that we cannot impose behind, simply because there is no place we can send them, or no one who will accept them, for so long, also because they do not cooperate themselves – either because they do not dare, or because they do not want, there may be different reasons – it is at least extremely important for the Christian People's Party that we maintain a minimum of propriety and dignity for these people as well. It is not acceptable to know that they are in the country, that they live here and work black or of crime, without obtaining an alternative. The alternative has now been said by the government to take care of them. Whether it's a departure center or a waiting reception, it's kind of inconsequential. The point is that they should travel and are expected to be as low as possible – therefore, to receive departure. The point is that those who have been rejected have food and roof over their heads. That's the main bag right there. Most of it has been said about this matter at this time, I thought. She's not that big and extensive. But I heard in the media the other day that there could be a bad mood at an exit center. Some people on the left said it shouldn't happen. It would have been an argument against this that we're now adopting. Well, I think it's too much to expect that there should be a positive mood in this place, whether it's a waiting reception or a departure reception. It's naive to believe that it's going to be pronouncing. There's not going to be a slow-down process here, but there's a place where the individual with a final rejection can get used to the idea that Norway wasn't his or her ultimate homeland. They're not shown in the street, they're not in prison – they're not actually criminals – and they're fed. The Christian People's Party felt that this solution was acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e670	Later today, Odelstinget will deal with a law against discrimination on an ethnic basis. It may seem contradictory that the Government is taking a price-effective initiative to fight racism, while, with its hesitant attitude towards non-returnable asylum seekers, it may have contributed to it. The Government has taken the initiative to reject the request from the recipient. The municipal minister was still deliberately trying to scare the city council in Trondheim from taking responsibility for the diet and lodging of this group when the government failed. Fortunately, it did not succeed. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment sent out a draft regulation on the phone, where it was very clear that the idea was to tighten up in relation to emergency aid. Ministry changed its mind on the road. But I think it is appropriate to say that it is alarming that the State Secretaries of both these two departments of the media, at the latest in the last week, express the wonder that the municipalities do not take the responsibility that the Government has both encouraged and clearly expressed that they have a duty to do so. The Government, itself, has changed its perception of the process and has created undue confusion. Let me make it clear that an asylum seeker who has been rejected is to be transported. Return agreements must therefore be given priority. But the situation as it is today requires a recognition that there are fellow human beings in our country, single people, who cannot return to any other country, because there is no one who accepts them, or who absolutely will not return because there is disagreement between the asylum seeker and Norwegian government over what they encounter on return. SV has taken an affordable initiative by putting the situation of these asylum seekers on the agenda. It is very good that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have clearly contributed to the government turning around and seeing that something has to be done. The centre party supports creating a waiting reception. The setting assumes that we are different in the strict criteria that the government is using in its mission to the UDI. We mean that the signals coming from the NOAS must be taken with the deepest seriousness. NOAS is an organisation that has experience in this group of people, and when NOAS points to the pressure cook that such reception may be, it must be taken seriously in the further follow-up. There will now be a case in the revised national budget on the creation of waiting receptions. Once again, I ask the Council of State to consider what the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are all about, so that there is a possibility of going out and in, so that there is something better in these receptions. Then there's another side that's very important, which these three parties are all about, and it's that no one should be sent out of reception until such a waiting reception is created, and that the municipalities should have a proof of the responsibility they've now assumed for those who are in the municipalities. The center party thinks, like SV, that it would have a clear advantage, a better way of dealing with the individual, if one initially gave these people a legal status. Then one would have the possibility to take care of both legal certainty and non-discrimination in another way. So the government has shown that it can reconsider. Therefore, I will make a reminder today that there is no shame in turning around. So the government has changed its grip when it comes to emergency aid, when it's about waiting reception, and when it's about Kurds, which they would send back to Northern Iraq. But there's one point, a very important point, that I think it necessary to underline, and there's the need for a new assessment of the status of those with a refusal that has now been in Norway for several years, a new assessment, an opportunity to assess the suspension period. So today there are stateless people, there are those who cooperate on returns, but there is no way they can be implemented. We in the Central Party thought it was bad that both Denmark and Sweden have such an arrangement, that the UDI has asked for it for the longest time, but that the Government does not receive support in this room for such a scheme. Finally, I would just like to say that the Central Party agrees with SV that the independent trade union community must periodically carry out a review of the country's assessments. We are surprised that there are no more people who support the proposal for independent investigations to see what happens to individuals who are being returned to countries with a high level of conflict. So it's so that maybe some of the most important things that have been said in this setting from all parties, except one, are that if one is in doubt, they should not be returned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e702	I'm actually going to be brief. The left is pleased that there has been a scheme on such a difficult issue, which we have both been concerned about, and which many have been concerned about over time. We are in a manifestly difficult dilemma between following up legitimate and reasoned decisions with consistency and ensuring that no one suffers direct distress. The setting clearly shows how all the lots have to deal with it. We want to give people dignity in everyday life, but at the same time we do not encourage them to sabotage decisions and signal that it only pays to be persevering enough. In our view, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals are a little in the wrong direction. Yeah, it's actually a little weird when the representative of the Socialist Left Party says that this is not a black and white question, so to speak, in a black and white way. The proposals supported by the governing parties of the Right and Christian People's Party and supported by the Workers' Party, the Left can join. They take care of the humanitarian aspects of the case, which have been the most difficult, and we agree that there is no need for legal status for the persons concerned, and that there must also be limits on how far Norway will follow up individuals who have left the country. As usual, the Progress Party is on the outskirts of this case, and the Left is pleased that they are standing alone in a view of closed reception. The left is pleased with the proposals made by the Minister of Local Affairs, which we see as a natural consequence of the experience we have gained, and in the light of the proposals contained in Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e715	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, said that the Progress Party is standing alone. They won't. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox The Coastal Party wants to ensure that decisions taken by the Norwegian authorities are respected. Therefore, when an asylum seeker has finally received a refusal to apply for asylum in Norway, it is natural that he returns to his country of origin voluntarily or is returned by coercion. If these decisions are not implemented in practice, they will undermine the entire asylum system. In those cases where the home Member State refuses to accept its own nationals who are being forced to return, Norwegian authorities need to intensify their efforts to establish a readmission agreement. In countries which do not have an operational central authority, it should be assessed to return a person to a safe area of the country, where appropriate in cooperation with local authorities. It is also appropriate to examine whether a country in the same region is willing to accept the person. Everyone has a home. It'll be amazing if they don't go home. There must be something holding them back. An asylum seeker with a refusal to apply for asylum in Norway usually has the opportunity to return to his country of origin voluntarily. To the extent that he does not return, it is necessary to take action to demonstrate that Norwegian society does not reward such offences. Therefore, the coastal party is strongly opposed to the proposals to give such persons legal residence in Norway after a certain period of time. In an attempt to force asylum-seekers to refuse from the country, the Government has put them in an emergency by refusing them to stay in asylum-seekers. However, this has led to unsustainable burdens both for the former asylum seekers and for the communities in which they lived. The proposed waiting reception system is a step in the right direction. But the Coast Party believes that it is not strict enough to motivate former asylum seekers to return. We will therefore support the proposal of the Progress Party on closed reception for persons who do not cooperate with the Norwegian authorities on return. The problems with the so-called non-returnable asylum seekers are likely to increase as long as asylum policy provides for other opportunities to send asylum seekers out by coercion. The vast majority of asylum seekers come to Norway through the Schengen area. This is related to the fact that there is no border control between participating countries. Many asylum seekers destroy their identity documents after they come to Norway and refuse to cooperate with Norwegian authorities on their identity and travel routes. If they have not applied for asylum in another Schengen country, they cannot be returned to the last safe country they have been in before coming to Norway. The open borders with Schengen also lead to other forms of illegal immigration. The Coastal Party therefore wants a Norwegian exit from Schengen, and we want the introduction of border control against the EU. We very much regret that most of the other parties in Stortinget support this agreement. It is particularly interesting that the Progress Party agrees to an agreement that contributes to uncontrolled immigration to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e734	I agree with at least one sentence in the representative Heikki Holmås said, namely that this is not a black-and-white question. I guess it just surprised me more that that wasn't what his post was about. It was at least a black and white post in relation to the questions. It was not a single question of what the effects would be of the kind of rules that he himself proposes. What is the long-term impact of having controlled immigration and protecting the right of asylum in Norwegian society for those who actually have a need for protection? Then I would like to refer to Kari Lise Holmberg's post and say that when many in this debate believe that people who are not returnable should have an opportunity to stay in Norway, they enter an open door. Persons who cannot be returned or who cannot return themselves have the opportunity to stay in Norway. There can be no doubt about it. All the individual cases that we have recorded, which have emerged in the media, we have gone through to see if it is what is claimed in the media, that we have cooperated – and that is not right. I have personally provided for that, because I wanted to see if this system worked, when I also said that it is an opportunity for you to stay. In addition, you can stay on the basis of strong human considerations even if you don't work together at some point, because that's the way it is in the system that we have. Then there's someone who thinks we shouldn't have them in the usual reception, but in a waiting reception, and they're going to get a work permit, they're going to get money, so they're going to experience nothing but being in the Norwegian community and working, and that it shouldn't have, for example. impact on the influx of asylum seekers from countries where forced return is difficult. Of course it will. Then I think the SV and the Center Party should be honest about that, be honest that that's the consequence. Because it's clear that living at an asylum reception in Norway, a waiting reception or something else, and getting a pocket money or a temporary work permit, of course, will have consequences for the influx, and I think they should be so honest to say that it's the side of it. I believe that the institution of asylum should not be an institute that means that people should be able to come and counter legal decisions and therefore be allowed to remain. I have thought that we have done an important job when we have cleaned up, by providing more differentiated reception, more differentiated treatment and ensuring that it is the asylum institution as the focus – that is, being persecuted – not that you can counter legal decisions. It will also be a completely impossible practice in a legally governed system if we are to base the subjective experience of being persecuted. How do you have a control system for a subjective experience? Of course, anyone can assume that they mean themselves subjectively persecuted. Many people who have moved may experience subjective persecution, even though they are not objectively at all. They have committed quite a great act by moving, and it is quite a great defeat to be sent back. The psychologically difficult situation there is too many people to be returned, although they did not have the basis to travel at some point, will, of course, create a fear, be a difficult situation and an experience for the individual, making it difficult to return. So we can't control an immigration policy based on a subjective experience that it's difficult. That's why it's important to have clear signals to make a change, and not experience things going on like they've always done before. Then, of course, it would have been best if we had countries around the world that followed all the rights that took people when they were to return them. 80 pst. of those who come to this country come without travel documents, and many of them, at the time of the decision, also have doubtful identity that makes it difficult to return them to countries that would receive them on forced return but do not accept citizens they are not sure of are their own. It's a long process, and it's these two groups that we're talking about. It's about five countries where we currently have problems with forced return, but I'm happy to say that now, after Jan Petersen has been in Ethiopia, we have a positive dialogue with the Ethiopian authorities about getting something more about return, because Ethiopia is a country where there are still human rights problems, but a country that has had a significant improvement in recent years. But we cannot say that from those countries, where, because of subjective experiences, people cannot be returned, they actually have to establish free immigration. I say it so directly, because it's clear that it can be inhumane to put people on the street and say that they're just going to get emergency help from the municipalities, but it's also because we need a managed policy around the asylum institution in Norway. We can't let any groups try it out, because it'll increase the flow from the same countries if we give it the signal out. That's the background for this case. Then the situation is that it has proven that emergency aid is difficult to practice for the municipalities. I might say that it's probably made more difficult by some municipalities than it really is. The emergency service is an unlawful obligation, which has always existed; no one should freeze or starve. There has been a principle of Norwegian social assistance for very many years, and it is a principle to be practised. So what we've seen is that it's been complicated and difficult in some municipalities to make the practice work, not because they really don't know what it's about – some municipalities have managed to practice this without any problems at all – but because you might have made barriers to getting it done. In order to have a consistent practice and to put an end to the discussion about some people not being given their rights, the Government has said that the State should then assume the obligation to provide emergency assistance by establishing an exit centre. With regard to the details of an exit centre, we are now in the process of seeing what it should contain, but it is the obligation of emergency assistance that exists and that is provided for by this solution. Yes, it's a confession that we thought it was easier to get a community practice than it was, but I don't have any problem doing retreats if I think the system we have is impractical, and that it doesn't give the right solutions. In any case, we have said that we need to evaluate the plan of non-residential provision to see what the effect is. The system of non-residents is under evaluation, but because it takes a long time to establish different types of reception or departure centres, we have started a process of creating legislation on this before it is established. With regard to the other points that have been raised in the proposal, and many of the other statements that have been made, I really do not intend to comment more precisely. It's done by other government party representatives. I just want to join it. But I want to comment on one thing. The representative Heikki Holmås mentioned a death in Iran. We've actually checked out the information about that death in Iran. UNE has. You don't live in a vacuum. You keep checking this information. When the representative Heikki Holmås is standing on the pulpit here and says that a person was killed, it is not correct in relation to the information we have received. The person died on a mountain trip after he fell down. The family believes that nothing has happened, so it has been checked out as a matter. But I record that the NOAS and others, despite having received this information, have still used this example. It tells me a little bit about using some of these examples in a strategic debate not because the truth content is there. I am not going to go well because there could not have been anything else that had happened, but this case has been checked, and there is nothing to suggest that something has happened that is not quite a natural death in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e765	I am pleased that the Council of State has crept to the cross in this matter. I am pleased that the Council of State admits that she misjudged the problems in this matter, and I am glad that she admits that it is important that we in this country have a uniform asylum policy, not 434, as many as there are municipalities. But the government could have avoided much noise if she had previously realized that this was a challenge that we had to tackle. The working party believes that the waiting receptions should be the nights. One should have a roof over the head, food and pocket money for personal consumption plus the right to urgent health care. We do not believe that a work permit should be granted. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree with these criteria?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e774	My reply on the work permit was addressed to Heikki Holmås. In the case of withdrawals or not, I believe that sometimes it is quite natural for foreign noise to change policies. I think we had gotten noise no matter what we had done, because it is so obvious that someone thinks – as I also believe some of the posts here were marked by – that there should have been a significantly more liberal practice of the asylum institution, that we should have had a significantly larger expansion in relation to who is going to get to Norway. As regards the question of what to get, I believe that the emergency aid code should be practised as it is. It is a matter of meeting the need for no one to freeze or starve. It involves food and stay, i.e. bed to sleep in. Persons with a refusal have not received pocket money in the last two and a half years, even in reception. It was an intrusion we did quite early. I would not say that giving pocket money on a general basis is something that is natural to reintroduce. We're not currently giving that to people in reception who have been refused.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e783	I will first be allowed to give praise to the Council of State for taking a settlement – if it is possible to say so – with NOAS and, in this case, SVs Heikki Holmås. If it results in correctness, what comes out here, taking individual cases out of a completely strange context and claiming that people are killed when there may be accidents that are the cause of death, I find it actually very serious. I only have one question for the Council of State, because in this debate too there have been allegations about the Progress Party, also by the representative Heikki Holmås, that the desire of the Progress Party to establish closed reception violates human rights. Compared to ExCom Conclusion No. 44 has full opportunities and rights to do what the Progress Party proposes. My question to the Council of State is: Would the establishment of closed reception break human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e790	Detention of certain criteria is fully permitted. It is also fully permissible to have detention for a period of time on a more general basis, such as: when living illegally in the country, as this group does. The big question in relation to the EMK, whether a closed reception will break with the human rights and where the limit goes, I can't say anything about it on the stand. But it is clear that we have previously received criticism from the European Court of Human Rights for a long time incarceration in cases. The length of time spent by individuals in such a reception could be contrary to human rights as long as there has been no law or judgment. But it's not so black-and-white that you can't internalize people in a reception for a period, that it will be a breach of the EMK. We practice the incarceration today of people who have unknown identity, and who we fear who is, based on the fact that they won't tell us about it. We don't practice it on a general basis, but for some we do it. In recent times, this has also been the case, among others. The police have been informed that they have imprisoned people for over a month because they had one fingerprint missing. We have to do that in a world where there is therefore quite a lot of terrorism and dangerous activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e795	I am pleased with the clarification of the Council of State in connection with the Iranian death. It shows exactly the value of implementing such a type of checkout as proposed by the SV, in order to clarify what is going on, because it may also be possible to make wrong decisions. There must then be consequences for foreign management practice. It is certainly right that there would be some increase in inflows from those countries if we introduced the kind of practice we are talking about. But there's no need to paint the damn wall, because this is a system that you have in Sweden, and that we want to introduce. Then you can look at Sweden, and then you can see how it goes. In the case of emergency aid, it seems that the Council of State has almost intervened because the municipalities have been irresponsible and have not been able to follow up. But it was so that the municipalities contacted and asked: Do you mean that we should implement this emergency aid practice, and how? The Council of State then said that this is something that we believe the municipalities should implement. Now we're doing a job where we're assessing how the municipalities are going to handle this. I would just like to say a thousand thanks to Mr. Vågan and Mr. Trondheim, who are the municipalities that have been in charge of putting pressure on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e806	I think it is striking that there is one thing about the rules of Sweden and Denmark that is never mentioned by the representative Heikki Holmås, namely that they have the small ‘snaggy’ saying that one assumes both parts, that one is not the reason why one has not been transported out. This is not the case in Sweden or Denmark, if the reason is that you, for example, are not automatically retreated. does not specify your own identity. It's not like that. The interesting question is, what does the outcome of a new treatment mean? In fact, it is the same legal principles as in the past that lie at the heart of a new treatment, which may then be re-tested. We believe that when people cooperate and we cannot return them, we have a treatment that is as good as that which Sweden and Denmark actually have. But then it's also clearer what it's about. It's about those who cooperate. Of course you can say that we should look to Sweden and Denmark, but it is rare I hear Heikki Holmås saying that we should also look to Denmark in the asylum policy. After all, there is a relatively small number of people who are allowed to stay every year, and in Norway there is also a small number who are allowed to stay every year after these schemes, related to the issue of strong human concerns. We practice a slightly different law, and one has to see the context of the law in order to evaluate this against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e818	I want to take a moment back to those who do not cooperate on the return, and who have thus been refused their application. One reason is a lack of understanding about what's waiting for. Would it not then make sense to follow the proposal that has been accepted here. 5, which is just supposed to follow some cases, follow some individuals, and check what happens where one has completed returns to countries with a high level of conflict? Would that not just cause this argument to be rejected in some cases? So I just want to remind you that there are two parties in this room that have stood by and proposed the deepening of the concept of'strong human considerations', in line with the Bondevik I government, just to give both case handlers and asylum seekers more orderly relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e825	There are two parties in the Storting that are confronted with every single thing that is a little difficult, all the time intervenes that strong human considerations should be turned on. It is a systematic part of the political debate. If you were to sum up the total number of cases in which Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, as the central party representative, thought that asylum seekers should be allowed to stay, and look at what fundamental questions it has been about during the period I have been the Council of State, we would almost have had no regulation in the field of immigration again. Then strong human considerations would be the main reason for entering Norway, and with the legal system that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is a member of the government, namely an office management, in this area, it would have resulted in almost no principles left. The leaders would be so aware that almost all of the things that were about children would have free openness, and in all the issues that were about conflict areas, and things where people had a subjective experience of being persecuted, one would have to base their own subjective experience. I just have to say: I don't think that would be a manageable foreign policy, and I think that should worry the Labour Party a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e830	In the matter that we are now debating, State Council Solberg has eight lines of weapons. Written by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs of 9 March this year, it must be read as a confirmation that the current situation of asylum seekers is unsatisfactory. In the last round, the Council of State is now in favour of setting up a so-called exit centre, not waiting for reception, as the majority of the municipal committee suggests. The majority of the Committee proposes that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «Until waiting reception is in operation, no person who is currently in regular reception and cannot be dispatched to the home Member State shall lose his place of reception.» My question to the Council of State must therefore be: Can the Council of State confirm that this understanding will also be the basis of the revised approach that the Minister has now launched?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e842	No, the majority of the municipal committee does not constitute a majority of the Stortinget, and we intend to implement the practice, as it is today until we have established the exit centres. This means that there will also be more people who lose their housing offer in a regular reception. I want to use the previous statement from the representative Heikki Holmås as among others. a reason why it is so. He has, of course, in relation to the criticism that, among other things, NOAS has come, justifying its desire to set up waiting receptions with such a terrible difficulty. There are so difficult reception situations when a large group that is in reception has been refused. It actually affects the quality of all the others who live in reception. We're going to set up the exit centers. In the meantime, we follow the practice that municipalities assist with emergency assistance until that time. There are probably several municipalities that have created a system for this that works. I think most municipalities see that it's an end to it, and that it's not going to take too long. Then I think we're in good hands having a practice that doesn't mean we need to have new practices along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e852	There are just some points that I would like to clarify. The representative Holmås concluded that the picture is not black-and-white. No, it's not black and white. It is not that all those who come to Norway and seek asylum are not refugees. That doesn't mean they're refugees either. That's quite correct, and that's a good analysis job of Heikki Holmås. However, the point is that it is SVs and Heikki Holmås’ system, which was adopted at Stortinget in 2001, underpinning the objective treatment of the individual application. Heikki Holmås and SV have become experts on subjective treatment of individual matters. So they don't trust the system that they themselves have adopted here in Stortingen together with, for example, The Workers' Party and the Center Party. That's what I think Heikki Holmås should take inwards. So also Heikki Holmås says: These people have done nothing illegal or anything criminal. But these people are on the assumption that they have finally been rejected, illegal immigrants in Norway. There's a recital that everyone has made, regardless of all the conventions and human rights that SV had to refer to. Then they shall be treated accordingly. That's what the Progress Party does, and I actually feel that we're the only party that treats them afterwards. It may not be the SVs and the Central Party subjective human rights attitudes that apply in individual cases. It can't be like that. Let me just conclude with that Council of State, that the majority in the committee is not the same as the majority in the Chamber. But I have to say that I consider and have an incredible desire to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal that exists from the majority of the committee. For one thing that takes up much of the Progress Party, too, the picture is that the municipalities now have to take indirect responsibility for government policy. Municipalities must take responsibility for an asylum policy and for an immigration policy for which this government has been in the driving position. But I'm still going to keep the cards a little bit up to the chest, because I would like to have the Council of State to confirm that the expenses that may now have to be borne by the municipalities until an exit centre is established will have to be compensated at the time the exit centre is established, if we are talking about significant burdens on the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e863	It's the Council of State's allegations about my and the Central Party's refugee policy that makes me feel the need to say two things. First of all, it's so that at one point in ours, the whole story was that there was a need to make an effort for families with children to secure some of the children who had bid for a long time on reception, abstinence. It was done. Secondly, I distance myself from a presentation that the Central Party does not want regulated immigration and a refugee and asylum policy with clear rules. But I firmly believe that if today's government had followed up on what Bondevik I warned, simply a review and a deepening of'strong human interests' in the regulation, it could have meant that there were some families who had escaped to be separated and sent to each of their countries. Some children would have a more thorough assessment of the same thing. Hopefully, some women would feel that they were better off in relation to gender-based follow-up. In fact, there is a policy that would include this government, and it is a policy that does not mean free of charge for anyone seeking asylum in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e872	I will be allowed to show that earlier in Stortinget I have answered the question of how we are going to handle the local government's finances related to this scheme. I have said that I do not want a general scheme in which we compensate the municipalities for this, because I do not think there is any particularly large additional burden for many municipalities. But I also replied at the time that if there were significant burdens on the municipalities, we would of course look at this and compensate them for it. I can confirm this to the representative Sandberg that we will do so, if there are municipalities that can report significant burdens on the future practice of the scheme. Then to the representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa. When I take the sum of newspaper headlines and written questions from the representatives of the Central Party and try to search for the principles that are being asked about, I have to say that the principles are based on significant transparency and more liberal practices in many areas. The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa also mentions a matter that she has asked questions about in the Stortinget before, where you have given children a special residence permit. The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has even said in the change of words in the Stortinget that she agrees in principle that for those who voluntarily leave care for their children to others, and who then disappear not to be sent out of the country in a strategy for reunification, it should not be the basis for family reunification. That is the principle underlying the special regulation in that case. That so UNE and UDI consider the case based on those principles, it is therefore difficult for me to see become the big case. Because there are facts in the matter that have been discussed, and there are facts in the matter that have been left to an official to make an assessment of, and so it has made an assessment of the facts in the case based on a principle that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has agreed to. If the principle were to be written under «strong human interest» in that matter, it would have to be disagreed with in principle and thought that parents could leave their children in order to be reunited with them later. So if you haven't gone into a completely different form of governance. My principle of this is, after all, that politicians should have stronger governance than what is expressed in the next case to be dealt with. But I'm a little surprised at how many issues the new form of governance is used by representatives of individual parties to give the impression that they would have other solutions to all the difficult issues, when they've been defenders of a form of governance at the same time, where the facts of the matter are to be explained by the foreign authorities and not by the politicians. If you first agree with the principles that we draw, you can't complain about the outcome of the interpretation of the same principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e879	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e895	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e902	In the document, representatives Halvorsen and Reikvam are promoting three proposals. Firstly, it is proposed that further national testing be stopped for 2005 and that planned tests be postponed in 2006. Secondly, it is proposed that, in the further work on national samples, any information should be based on a statistical sample of students. And thirdly, it is proposed that the government in the further work should engage different disciplines to develop the tests as a educational tool. The Socialist Left Party has remained in the Committee on these proposals alone. However, a broad majority agree that it is important that national tests be further developed through the involvement of different disciplines, but notes that this is already done. I expect the SV to justify its conclusion itself, and that the same applies to the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, who have their own comments to a large extent and concludes by rejecting the document, while the majority wants the document to be annexed to the protocol. Three-thirds of the debate on national samples is important: in a debate of principle, we shall have national tests and why in a public debate, the results of the tests are public, they shall be published and, in the event of how and at the end of a debate on the practical aspects of the conduct of the tests: From the Right, we are very pleased that a broad majority, all except SV, are at the forefront of the national tests being carried out in 2005, 2006 and beyond. The tests are part — and an important part — of the national quality assurance system. Norway has been late in developing a good system to ensure quality in education, but in recent years, the Stortinget, several times unanimously, has agreed to develop a quality assurance system in which national tests should be an element. I refer you to the Budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2003-2004 where the majority, including SV, agrees to introduce and make mandatory tests from spring 2004. The right is satisfied that a broad majority is still on this, and that it can be established that the national tests have come to be. The Committee has been clear on the purpose of the tests, as there may seem to have been some confusion around this in schools. The tests are designed to enable schools to adapt their teaching better to the individual student. At the same time, tests will be a good quality assurance tool for each school and each student group. The appropriate form and content of the tests may be asked, and we therefore ask the Ministry to evaluate them. It is important that the tests function as intended. Only then will the tests have the necessary legitimacy. The purpose of the tests is also the reason why the majority asks the Ministry to assess the timing of the tests. This is also the main reason why the tests must cover all the students in the year coal concerned and not just a statistical sample. Adapted training may not be provided from a statistical sample and an average. The right is also satisfied with the conclusion of the majority on continued publication on the school portal.no. The results of the tests are public under the Public Health Act even if there is no requirement for so-called active publication. On the Right, we have always believed that publication is in the best and most reasonable way when it is prepared and with a corresponding information package. The results of the tests are not published today in such a way that they can be easily ranked. Significant work is required to rank the schools, and it is regrettable that there are such almost worthless rankings that have been posted in the media. Both the state councils and the majority of the population have constantly warned against such ranking lists that can thus not be easily read out of the school portal.no. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to consider how the results can be published in order to make ranking even more difficult. In this respect, the majority of the Committee points out that a continuous publication of the results of the tests may be an instrument. The Committee has been given many impressions that there have been shortcomings in the performance of the year’s tests. Here's an improvement potential. We all see that. I have a great deal of understanding of the frustration that has occurred in some schools, yes, many schools, when things have not worked as it was supposed to. I am very pleased that the Council of State takes these feedback seriously. In her letter to the Committee of 9 March 2005, she made it clear. It's joyous and necessary. I assume that the performance of this year’s tests will be carefully evaluated in terms of both content, form, pre-test information, time and resource use, data processing and feedback procedures. It is also important that there is good dialogue between the authorities and different user organisations. The reference group set up at the beginning of March will become the body for good dialogue and cooperation to further develop the tests, so that they can continue to be an important element of the quality assurance system for education and training. The tests can get better, the implementation can get better, but it's very good to build on. Fortunately, there is a broad majority for that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e931	The implementation of the national tests has created a significant debate and upsurge in this spring. A number of students around the country have boycotted the implementation. There is reason to believe that the samples have had significant defects and that therefore there is good reason to make changes. The working party has previously given its support to a national quality assessment system in which national samples should be one of the elements. We support this because the primary purpose of the national tests is to use them as a means of achieving better adapted training. There is good reason to argue that the form of implementation this spring has not supported under this purpose, perhaps vice versa. Due to a lack of dialogue with, inter alia: Unfortunately, the training association and the Student Organisation and significant roots in their implementation have weakened their legitimacy. The working party wants transparency around the quality of public school. Therefore, we continue to support the implementation of the national tests. At the same time, it is important to point out that national tests alone do not measure the quality of education or the quality of each school. The working party has therefore been constantly critical of a publication that allows the ranking of schools. A one-sided focus on the results of the tests may easily come into play in a situation where the national samples become a measure rather than a means of achieving more adapted training. And then we could at the same time risk just counting what can be counted. Such a development does not want the Workers' Party. We are therefore pleased that we have now got the government parties with us to make important changes. First of all, we believe that it is important to move the main parts of the samples to the harvest, so that they become more a tool for individual students and teachers, rather than a measure of final competence. We also believe that a more ongoing publication will reduce media focus on results. Experience from other countries shows that this becomes less important over time. Continued implementation of national samples depends on ensuring the quality of the samples and on limiting the scope. We also believe that further implementation depends on close contact by the Council of State with relevant organisations. Knowledge of school is important in order to achieve quality in school. Knowledge of school conditions is also important in order to enable parents, students and teachers to receive appropriate training. But not least, knowledge of school content is important in order to give politicians the best and the best possible basis for making decisions about school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e944	The Progress Party has taken note of the comprehensive comments made by the Council of State on the proposal by letter of 9 March this year to the Committee. I would like to confirm and underline the commitment of the Party to the national test set-up, as expressed in comments from the Progress Party fraction and with other batches, when the Committee has dealt with the framework and arrangements for such tests in various ways in the past. As the Progress Party sees it, it is high time that Norway, as one of the last countries in Western Europe, set up a national quality assessment system for initial training. The establishment and start-up of such an open system is a comprehensive task which may result in errors and weaknesses in the process. However, the Party considers that this does not in any way justify postponing planned tests or changing the model, so that information from national samples is based on a statistical sample of students. The Progress Party has also noted that the development of national tests as a educational tool is in the process of working together with a number of professional environments. The Progress Party therefore considers that SV’s proposal should be rejected. However, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to stress the need to correct any obvious errors, deficiencies and weaknesses in the national test set-up along the way, and that a comprehensive en route dialogue with all interested and important parties is important. We record such work going on under the direction of the ministry. The Progress Party also considers that a comprehensive evaluation of establishment and start-up will be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, based on national samples from 2004 to 2006 inclusive. A national initial quality assessment system is important for many reasons. The school owners have now been given responsibility for quality work also through legal requirements. Initial training is a national task carried out by various school owners and financed by public funds. A nationally organised system covering all pupils is therefore essential for a good quality assessment. The Progress Party also attaches great importance to the fact that information and knowledge of systems and results are good for stakeholders and the public. A quality assessment system shall ensure the adaptation of teaching to the needs of each student. It will provide parents and students with better access to quality at their own school and help school owners to become more aware of documenting the quality of training provision. In the view of the Progress Party, these considerations also indicate that all pupils participate in the same scheme and that there is full transparency about results at school level, while the results for each student can be used in adapting the individual student’s education. It is possible to create one system that can be used for several important purposes. Nevertheless, the Party supports the transfer of samples from our harvest to strengthen the importance of the tests for the learning work of the students. I would like to state that the Progress Party wishes national tests to be included in the assessment basis for determining the position. This is a mandatory test where you are challenged to do your best. Then the test should, in our view, count when the position character is drawn up. Also in this case, I want to use the reference to sports and football: you get no points for good training matches. There won't be any good serial games either for those players who scour the training. I wonder why some – especially teachers, the Student Organization and some politicians – are so afraid of measurement. What are they going to hide? The school must be able to be measured in a clear and transparent manner. It's high time we got a lot of measurement. I also believe that when this becomes a fixed part of a comprehensive quality assurance system in school, both sensation and discomfort will give way to wondering that there could be so much control around this when we started. The Progress Party has also noted that some cases of ambiguity, lack of information and weaknesses in establishment are obviously used by different interest groups as a policy instrument for strong political disagreement on other policy content changes in Norwegian school. Neither students nor parents have benefited from such a political error. Finally, when I now address our proposals, I would like to say a few words about one of them, namely, the costs. The organisation, preparation and implementation work is resource-intensive both for national authorities and for individual school owners. The Progress Party considers it appropriate to use national resources on this system. We therefore believe that this should be done through appropriations for the budget of the Ministry. In particular, at a start-up and start-up stage, it is important to ensure full government funding, so that the school owners are secured in a secure manner, in full expenditure coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e970	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e973	For approx. five and a half years ago we treated St.meld. No 28 for 1998-1999, Towards richer objectives, with the sub-title "University School", the equivalent training provision and a national strategy for the assessment and quality development of primary and secondary education – this as a small aproposal that we have been concerned with quality and quality development in schools for a long time. Those who don't remember back to St.meld. No Twenty-eight, I guess, is almost historyless. This message was submitted by Jon Lilletun. He was the Council of State. Prime Minister then was Kjell Magne Bondevik. The notification established a quality development system with user involvement in each school. Students, teachers, parents and principals were responsible for quality work. User surveys were introduced and established in the vast majority of schools as an active tool in quality improvement and quality development. The basic idea in St.meld. No 28 is that quality is something to be created in each school. One thinks from the bottom up. Thus, quality development takes place ‘down there’, and there is a need to develop models for improving quality. Each school is responsible and each school has established routines and practices. In Culture for Learning, thought has turned upside down. It's a quality thinking from top to bottom. Quality improvement shall be achieved through control, testing, publication and competition. It's the thinking of the system that's now in place. It is diametrically different from what was established with St.melding. No 28 and presented by Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. In this area, a paradigm shift has occurred. To the extent that we can talk about a change in our education system in Culture for Learning, this is where the paradigm shift is. Our concerns in the setting of Culture for Learning have turned on in full. Students, teachers and researchers have alerted. The researchers from which the samples were evaluated last year, 2004 have proposed ‘time-out’. The term ‘time-out’ has been taken from the researchers who have worked on these tests from 2004. There are several reasons why they have proposed it. The tests are not working well enough, and there is too much information, so that the correction work done at each school is not going to be good enough. The tests have low legitimacy. The samples have been published in advance, so their value has been greatly reduced as they were known to the students before they should have them. Students have boycotted the samples. Whoever's to be released is also unclear. In some places, almost everyone participates. Elsewhere, students are asked not to be present because it can decrease the outcome for the school. The most serious thing, though, is that we already see a tendency for the tests to be strongly governing the activity in the schools. We are moving towards the fact that there are no longer the curricula governing training and teaching, but the tests and the national tests. We all understand that. Everyone understands that, because in all organisations and structures it will always be a suboptimisation. Everyone will adapt to the framework conditions in the best possible way. No one wants to produce weak results, so teaching will focus on the type of problems that the tests have. Characters and national tests take over the management of Norwegian education, cf. postulated in the VG before the weekend that the characters have to be lifted, because there is increased competition for the students. In addition, we see that the costs have become higher than what was foreseen. We don't know exactly what they're going to be, but the few studies we've done indicate that they're significantly higher than what we've assumed. So a little thing: those who think that these tests can be used to facilitate and adapt the training, have to believe in Santa Claus – sorry, President – because the teachers know everything about their students. They've been trying out day and day in, I kept saying. Teachers know their students, and the knowledge they might need through national tests must be marginal in relation to what they already know. So this is a substitute argument. Finally – I see that the time has come – I refer to our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e990	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to. Otherwise, ‘Christmas’ is not a dangerous word to use in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e995	It was good to hear that one can use the word ‘Christmas’. Then I can cancel my belief in Christmas, but I believe in national tests as an instrument in school. After being in the classroom for over 20 years, I know that we also need this. I have also looked back at the message Towards richer targets, as Rikvam pointed out. I would quote from this one, where it stands under the central premise: ‘The overarching aim of the assessment work in schools and apprenticeships is to improve training for pupils and apprentices and to further develop institutions as learning organisations.’ So I'd like to read from the brochure sent out by the Education Directorate, on why we're going to have national tests: ‘The aim of the tests is primarily to provide teachers and schools with a better basis for adapting the training to the individual student, whether the student has good or weak performance.’ For the Christian People's Party, it is important to underline the primary purpose of national tests, namely that the school should be better able to adapt training to the individual student's needs. The tests help teachers to find out about their students in the learning objectives set. During the examination of the Communication on Culture for Learning, the majority of the Committee stated: ‘The national tests will be an important part of an overall information base that will enable all those who are required to make decisions on initial training to do so on the basis of a continuous knowledge of the situation of their pupils.’ The Christian People's Party believes that publication should not facilitate ranking. Furthermore, we are also concerned that the national quality assessment should give an overall picture of the quality of training. The information on each school’s test results should therefore not be the information published alone, and we look at the school portal. For the press, however, it seems that school performance is ranked on the most important national tests. They're used to cheer up celebrities and super sportsmen and throwing dice at both one and the other. That's why they're also following up with the schools, right? It is to be hoped that this will change once the interest of the news in national tests has subsided. The school gate.no does not add up to ranking, but to transparency. In order to take action, those responsible for the school need information on the state of the school. It's just like in the orientation loop: To achieve the goal you've set, you need to know where you are at any time. Parents are an important partner in school. In order to have a good dialogue with the school, it is positive that parents have easy access to information. The results of students' learning are part of what they need to know. Because we know that the better contact there is between school and home, the better learning outcomes. After a summary of the experience with the tests last year, improvements were made. This must be repeated this year. Now there are even more class steps with it, and we know that not everything has been equally successful. New evaluations are needed. It is positive that representatives of the organisations concerned should discuss how to do this better. Both student, teacher and parent organisations must be involved in the quality assessment system processes — and choices made. This was also stated in the context of Culture for Learning. The system of national quality assessment needs to be continuously developed and improved. Without a doubt, there has been frustration in carrying out the tests this year, including: because the computer system has failed. It may seem that the professionals have been too ambitious. In addition, there has been uncertainty about pupils who have individual decisions on special education. All students have the right to participate, but students can be exempted if they obviously do not have the benefit of the test and consent is given by parents. Students requiring special facilities may also use them when they have the tests. In the magazine Education, Angela Hasselgren, who is the director of national tests in English, sums up this: ‘For us, the primary objective of the tests is pedagogical, i.e. to provide information to the individual student/student’s supervisor. In addition, we will develop a form of assessment that will increase the quality of training in English at school.’ And on the other hand, ‘Experience shows that the teachers who have used the test appreciate being able to provide meaningful feedback based on good criteria.’ If only a statistical sample of students were to have the test, it would undermine the main purpose of the test, namely to provide better adapted training for the individual student. The evaluation of Reform 97 showed us that we have not come far enough with regard to adapted training in Norway. There are considerable differences in learning outcomes among students. We want to do something about that. The basic skills are inconsistency and shall not be at the expense of general education. The school shall develop the whole human being through work on values, ethics and culture. When we evaluate quality in school, we have a wide carpet of values and goals to take into account. The national samples are only part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1044	Document No The 8 proposal from the SV and its examination in the Committee show that there has been a need for a review here in the Stortingen on the national tests. They have not functioned satisfactorily. What is perhaps the most serious thing is that there has been a lack of clarity in relation to the purpose of the tests, which the committee believes may be due to the content and design of the tests, and that the information prior to the tests has not been good enough. The fact that one does not know the purpose of the tests makes it completely pointless to have them carried out. The size has been established during the treatment of the Culture for Learning message, and now repeats that the primary purpose of the tests is that the school should be better able to adapt the training to the individual student’s needs. When both teachers and students communicate ambiguity in relation to purpose, something has gone really wrong along the way. That criticism should take the department inwards and listen to it. Furthermore, the examination of this case shows that the dialogue with the parties involved, inter alia. The educational association and the student organisation have not been good. The Council of State has now set up a broad group of composite reference groups, and that is good. An overall committee assumes that this reference group becomes an important co-player and is actively involved in the road choices to be made. I think this is quite rough expressed by the entire committee – and the Stortingets – side. In terms of costs, the Ministry does not have an overview of this either. It is obvious that municipalities and county councils have incurred expenses for teachers for training, travel, residence and temporary work. Therefore, the Stortinget Ministry is asked to return to Stortinget and to report on the use and costs of the national tests. So for publication. The centre party has previously spoken here in Stortinget for a statistical sample of students to participate in the national tests. We have done so because it should not be possible to compile results from school to school and thus get a ranking. Now we've had a national meeting where the Center Party says yes to national tests, but no to publication. The centre lot refers to the fact that the Public Service Act does not require the data from the national samples to be published without a request for transparency. We believe that transparency about school quality is important both for pupils, for seniors, for school management, for owners and national authorities. However, we believe that the national tests and other indicators do not adequately reflect the quality of training. On that basis, the Centre Party does not wish to publish the results of these tests. The centre party believes it is very unfortunate that the publication that is taking place contributes to the ranking of the schools. We do not understand that in January this year the Ministry chose to publish the results of the tests one year back, and believe that this procedure actually contributed to undermining the purpose of the tests, namely as a learning tool. The Central Party looks at all the noise that has been around these national tests in the last year, and really believes that the Ministry and the Council of State must take a great deal of responsibility for not having done this, as the Stortinget foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1061	There's going to be a slight change in advertising, because now Steinar Bastesen has arrived. The President then gives Steinar Bastesen the floor before the Council of State Kristin Clemet – according to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1065	Thank you, President! I just got it right in time. I wasn't aware it was my turn already. The introduction of the national samples has led many to question what is going on. Why do the teachers in the classes have to add their personal identification number to the test? – This has apparently been withdrawn. Why do the students have to put their ID number on the tests? What is this? The most skeptical think this is some kind of surveillance program. Samples will be centrally stored. It has not been agreed that the tests should be deleted after characterisation. What right is there to set up a monitoring system that follows school life for the rest of her life? It is not even allowed for the police to have a central register to monitor people who have been in miscarriage for many years. Why should it be allowed for the school to have a central register of what students have received in character on a national test in their youth age — a register to be kept there for years and, in the worst case, can follow the student for the rest of his life? Here it is ground for sorting – yes, strong sorting! Why is it allowed to monitor the teacher for years by following the tests of his person number to the students and by recording him in a central register each year? These are questions I have received from parents and students. I do not decide whether the parents are informed or not in this case. I consider the students to be independent people. I cannot allow many of them to be branded forever on the basis of the results they received on national tests many years ago. The national tests are a strange experiment. A lot of people call them an assault. Young people react to this kind of reaction by most young people. The samples will be published and it will be illegal. However, it is asked whether the Minister of Education is also doing things in this matter that should be assessed legally. No one is served by the new surveillance society that this government will introduce. This procedure is a reminder of a situation we experienced in the years 1940 to 1945. Many thousands of Norwegians lost their lives in the fight for, among others, making Norway a secure and heart-warming society. It's cold from this government. This is a good example of that. This matter merges into the series of cases in which the North is almost colonized. Banks and insurance corporations are sold abroad. The army is going to be more professional, without any popular connection. Natural resources shall be sold out of the country. Schools, municipalities and hospitals shall be operated so poorly that the Norwegian welfare society is set back 20-30 years in time. This is no longer a right policy. It is no longer a policy to strengthen Norway. This is a policy aimed at undermining Norwegian society. And I ask the question, what's going on? We have to wake up before Norway is colonized by foreign powers and capital forces. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1093	I am, not so surprising, very pleased with the committee's attitude. All lots except SV are behind the mandatory tests and the principle of transparency. At the same time, the Committee discusses possible improvement measures in the tests and their implementation, all of which are measures already undertaken or assessed by the Ministry, including: in cooperation with the professional communities and the national quality assessment system reference group. This applies, inter alia, to: time of carrying out the tests, information, assessment, publication, use of the tests. In this respect, I also refer to the evaluation of the tests carried out in 2004 and to the improvement measures then undertaken by the Ministry and to my letter to the Committee on 9 March this year. It is quite clear that there is an improvement potential for the national tests and their implementation. Such systems must evolve gradually, and likely to continue to develop, as has been the case, and are, in other countries. At the same time – and I think that it is important to say this in the interests of the Education Directorate, among others. – it is part of this turmoil that has been around the national samples this year, due to completely different conditions than the tests themselves. Among other things, a small group of anonymous actionists have been largely allowed to express the media image. This has covered the many tests that have been carried out without problems, and the many positive feedback from both parents, students and teachers. A full picture of experience and potential for improvement is given only after we have carried out a professional evaluation of this year’s tests, as well as surveys among students, teachers and school leaders. In this context, let me also mention that an evaluation of the entire national quality assessment system is under way, which will run until 2008. This spring’s debate on national tests may leave an impression that these have now become a very comprehensive part of Norwegian initial training. So let me remind you that the time that has passed for the students in 13 years is about. one week of a total of approx. 500 weeks. So it's a disappearing little part of the training, but I think it's an important part. Norwegian school is very good in very many areas. The main problem in Norwegian school is large social differences, which appear to be reproduced through school time, and too high a proportion of students who do not acquire basic skills needed in life, in working life and in further education. So there are many students who perform worse than their abilities and talents were supposed to. One important reason why this can happen is that this is not detected in time and that no proper action is taken in time. This is what the national samples are all about. They are a tool that can provide better information on the challenges each student has to face, and what challenges we have seen – in municipalities or in the country. In this way, teachers, schools and authorities will be better equipped to take timely action. The opening allows parents, among other things, to be important partners in dialogue and dialogue. The national quality assessment system contains more than 400 indicators of the quality of Norwegian training. The number of indicators will increase as schools and training places carry out the apprenticeship inspectors — and, where appropriate, surveys among teachers, instructors and parents. Such systems in many ways imply a recognition that not only the student has an improvement potential but also the school has it. It can be said that the system distributes and places responsibility on all those responsible for Norwegian school and for students' learning. In my view, the openness also contributes to this by providing the responsible persons with the necessary information and by mobilising them to take responsibility for action where necessary. I would like to add that I believe that in the debate on our national quality assessment system, it is important to bear in mind that this is not a copy of any other system. We only have one information system, and we have a clear development perspective on this system, that is. that there is also ample link with guidance and development resources. It was said by the representative of Rikvam that there is no need for such a system, because teachers already know everything about their students – and therefore do not need this additional information. Well, I've heard a lot of examples that you just didn't know everything. I think Møllergata school in Oslo is a good example of that. As a result of these tests and transparency, the proportion of students who were below the critical limit for literacy was reduced from 76 pst. until 17 pst. It happened by the school mobilizing and asking itself, what are we doing wrong? Or what do we have, which is wrong? They found out that they had very competent teachers, but that they might not do things as well as possible – or as properly as possible. They put other measures in place for students to strengthen literacy, set up extensive cooperation with parents — and achieved a formidable improvement that benefits these students in the future. This I believe shows something very trivial, namely that effort is beneficial. We have also seen another good example of this in recent times: there are very good results from the work that is now being done in Norwegian schools — by teachers, by school leaders and, of course, also by parents and by students — to strengthen the learning environment and reduce bullying. Here's the spectacularly good results, and it shows again: effort benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1122	In the event of an incursion, it has not been informed that five lines have been given since the inauguration by the Council of State. So it's going to be line change, and the first replicator is Vidar Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1127	Thank you very much, President! When we know which choice of words a government can accept, the setting here is nevertheless a constant response to a legitimate criticism of the form and conduct of the national tests so far. I think it has happened a lot unedagogically along the way. For example, in the case of the setting of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, I wondered for a while whether the Council of State has actually read what it says about close dialogue between students, teachers and parents. Why did it take three quarters of a year before the launch of the reference group set up in March this year? I would like to be confirmed by the Council of State that she has read the setting we are currently handling – among other things. ‘Dialogue and cooperation’ – and will actually involve these groups in an active dialogue, which will also mean a real contribution to the road choices to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1138	I can confirm that I have read this setting. We also established a cooperation, which, in my opinion, worked well. We had two groups. One was called a reference group – the other, I think, was called something else. In addition, we established cooperation with these organisations on a number of other levels. This concerns many organisations, but I noticed that two of them, the Education Association and the Student Organisation, expressed dissatisfaction with this cooperation. Some of the descriptions that these two organisations gave of the cooperation are not descriptions that I can join. I didn't think it was that bad, or that it was the basis for that kind of criticism. I chose to take note of it anyway. What I did then was to wind up the two groups and set up a new reference group, which was responsible for following the entire national quality assessment system — including the national tests — and questions related to the school port.no. This reference group is now working – I have participated actively in it myself. The reports I have received indicate that this cooperation is progressing very well, and that the issues that, among other things, are being discussed. The Committee has been set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1147	I have listened to the Council of State and will stand behind what she said. We from the Progress Party are missing one clarification. That is what we have mentioned ourselves, namely that the results of these tests, which are mandatory, should and should be included as part of the positions. When I bring this up, there are many hats on – among others. also the parent carrot – but I record that in the discussion about the national tests there have been very cracking signals. We therefore believe that as important tests as national tests are of course part of the setting of the position character – they are part of the background material, the basic material, which a teacher uses when setting the position character. They should and must be there. I would ask the Council of State to clarify their views on this as much as possible. I hope, of course, that she will follow the recommendation of the Advance Party that national tests be included in the characterisation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1158	It has not been my opinion or that of anyone else to give any new signals in relation to the assessment requirement for the introduction of the national tests. It hasn't changed, and we haven't reinterpreted it. That means it's the teacher who grade the students. The teacher shall find a character which expresses the student’s competence at the time of issue and shall use all the documentation available to the teacher. This means, of course, that the national tests can also be included in that assessment basis. Now I have noticed the Committee's wording on this. Out of respect for the committee and the work of the reference group, I would like to include it in the reference group, and then they will discuss it. It is also true that, for other reasons, the Education Directorate is currently also reviewing the evaluation regulation. So you can take this with you. But if it becomes relevant – and there is a lot to suggest – to move some of the samples, or all of the samples, to the autumn, the whole theme actually becomes less topical.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1165	I have two questions. The first question is about the opinions we have received from the research community, the ones that evaluated the tests for 2004. There have been clear signals from these environments that they recommend postponing the tests or take ‘time-out’ – which is the expression they use – in 2006. They have evaluated, evaluated and looked at the problems, the legitimacy of tests, etc. Does the Council of State mean that there is no basis for going in and following up on what these heavy environments express? So to what goes on ranking. The majority of the Committee has been concerned that ranking in the media cannot be avoided. My question is: does the Council of State, when we collect that kind of data centrally, mean that it is possible to avoid ranking within the framework of the Public Prosecutor's Act, as the public is sitting on that kind of information?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1174	Very well known, there are no professional environments that have proposed ‘time-out’. The evaluation of samples in 2004 had nothing to do with this. The evaluation for 2005 has not been carried out. On the other hand, one researcher in a lecture – I was actually present and listened to it – launched the term ‘time-out’ with a question mark after. That's the knowledge I have of it. To the question of ranking: No, we have no guarantees. My assessment is probably still — not everyone shares that assessment — that there is actually less ranking now, after the schoolport.no was launched, than it was before. I have seen rankings as long as I have been able to read newspapers. Unfortunately, there is no possibility for any democratic power to impose the newspapers or the media to present drugs in the way we like. Otherwise, it was about a paradigm shift here instead. I cannot fail to note that it may be SV that has done the greatest paradigm shift here. In 2003, SV joined a targeted school with national tests. Then Kristin Halvorsen said that she wanted national tests at the steps we've decided, and that she didn't think it was possible to keep the results of the individual school secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1183	I guess no one will keep the results secret. Students, superiors, school management, school owners and national authorities should know how things stand. That's why it's not about a secret team. We have to be open about that. The question is whether the ministry has assessed other ways of making this publication that do not lead to some sort of ranking of schools – because we simply do not want that ranking. We simply want to make it more difficult to compile the results of individual schools. That's the one question. The second question is in relation to students who need more time – I think, for example. to people with visual impairment, as we know, who have participated in national tests but who have not been given increased use of time, thus cutting low even if they are very glyphic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1192	I allow myself to point out that there is something paradoxical in the compilation of questions here, because the last question suggests that the representative of Skjélaaen believes that this is a competition, that the visually impaired must have extended time for them to be able to participate and compete for results, because they are cutting low. But the purpose of the tests is not competition, the purpose is to help teachers find out where to put the effort to help the student, whether the student is visually impaired or not. Otherwise, there are fixed rules for who is to participate in the tests. I think it is difficult to guarantee that ranking lists are not made in the media, but I think they are becoming more and more pointless. The better we do the school port.no, the more complete it becomes with indicators, the more open and democratic the debate on quality in Norwegian school becomes. I think the average Northman today is more informed about school quality and all the difficult things that belong to it, than what we were just a little while ago. Of course, we're looking at different ways of doing this to make it the best possible possible. The Committee itself has mentioned this with ongoing reporting. It is possible to assess the pro­con, and we also have cooperation with the Statistical Central Bureau on so­called school contribution indicators.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1200	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1205	A few things at the end: Although this is a Document No. Eight proposals, there's one thing there's been a lot of debate about in the media and in society. But many have given good feedback. Many have been busy reporting back that this has actually been good, and that it has worked. I'm also going to remind you that where there may have been the most conflict – if we can use that expression – has almost 80 pst. by students in higher education actually carried out the national tests. The progress party believes it's high time we got the transparency light into school. The school has been able to tune in for too long, except for public light, and it's high time we got measurements and transparency about what's going on in school. And when we measure ourselves against others, we see that the jam is high time. We've been busy that it's a big operation to implement and start up such a system. Therefore, we will have an appropriate evaluation and feedback. That's the one I want to point to again. The second is that when we see that there will be a discussion about money, we think that it is important to stress that expenditure on national measurements should be taken at national level. That is why it belongs in the department, and we are promoting this. Then we see that there is a significant gap between the two red parties in the vision of national samples. So let's see. I also listened to the representative from SV, who has promoted the proposal, and he thought it was unnecessary with more insight, because the insight you need has the teachers per. today. But then we're back to this with the openness and the public. There are other reasons why we want national tests. We want to give both parents and students the opportunity to understand the quality work of each school. It goes far beyond what the individual teacher knows and wants to communicate to parents – and, for that matter, to students as well. It's as if it were home-school collaboration. We're going to include that in parentheses. But this is not SV concerned about – parental participation, parental influence and parental leave in school are almost foreign to SV. But the Progress Party is occupied with it. We see it as a natural use — and there is a need to put in place national tests and provide parents and students with better insight into the quality of school. So the community uses approx. 50 billion kroner on basic education. It is clear that, on the part of the national authorities, we should have a good understanding of the results and the quality of the work being done at school – of course we should. This is something quite different than the honor of the individual teacher. But that's what SV is busy about. The progress party has had a different focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1220	The representative, Reikham, raised the voice and proclaimed that it was like believing in the Christmas Eve to believe that the national tests were suitable for providing adapted training. In this case, it is a message that the representative Rikham should give to the teachers and to the PP service. TNS Gallup conducted a study on the experience of the national samples from 2004. That's 60-70 pst. by the teachers that the results of the national tests provide to some extent or to a large extent information on what should be strengthened in the teaching of the individual student. Feedback from the PP service is very good, because the national samples use exactly the same tool as the PP service to map. In short, the national tests are structured in this way: they are skill tests, and they are divided to identify exactly what problems a student has. In a class, for example: Both Per and Anne have problems with reading skills, but then it turns out that Per has problems with reading speed, and Anne has trouble reading consonants. So they need quite different help to solve their problems and get better reading skills. So if we were to follow the SV's model for the national tests with only a statistical average of the students, the situation would be as follows: At a given age, most students are struggling with the reading rate, and the measures that would be inserted would be directed towards most students. That means that she, as a consonant, would still have problems. You can't give each student customized training by knowing something about a statistical average. It is our duty to do what we can to prevent that as much as 17 pst. of all tithing classes leave the school without being able to read and write properly. In this work, national tests, dialogue and transparency are extremely important. And then SV would like to continue talking about believing in Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1229	The debate shows that there is broad agreement on the national samples. That's good. And there is a broad consensus that the national tests are a good tool to develop even better, to provide the best possible education. The representative Reikvam was at St.meld. No 28 for 1998-1999 and the assessment of own activities to be carried out at individual schools. This school-based assessment is necessary. But it turns out that that's not enough. It also turns out that although this was part of the regulation and the school was required to operate with school-based assessment, many schools did not. So this isn't enough. However, this should not be a substitute for the school-based assessment — it still has to be there — but there must also be other tools to assess the quality of the school. So I have noticed that the objections that have also arisen in the debate here mainly relate to practical matters. It concerns content, namely that the samples have been published in advance, in the case of boikot, in the case of information, i.e. largely practical conditions. The Committee has been reasonably clear that there are a good deal of practical things that can be improved, and I feel convinced that it will be done as well. The Council of State has been commendable in view of the need to improve the practicalities that have been too poor. Only on one point have I seen in today's debate that there has been a fundamental argument in relation to the tests. It went on with custom training. I would strongly reject the fact that this is a substituting moment. On the contrary, it is important to have these tests in order to be able to have the necessary tools for good, customised training. The 1997 evaluation showed that we have really failed here – and many teachers now see this as a good tool. I have received many positive feedback from an incredible number of teachers and schools on national tests. One teacher writes that as he sees the development of national tests, they will gradually be a good tool for the student and the teacher to find types of errors and misunderstandings, make changes in teaching so that it is better adapted to the student and helps the student to target their efforts — and that national tests may be useful in student conversations and parental interviews, to a greater extent than previous tests could be. I think that's a good argument – it can help the student. That's exactly what it's going to do. The representative Rikvam says that it will control the teaching. Yeah, it's skill tests. If teaching gradually puts more emphasis on skills, I can't see that there will be any big problem. It's just the skills we're going to learn first and foremost from our students, and some more emphasis on skill learning doesn't think I'm dangerous. If the tests can contribute to that, that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1244	SV wants a demanding knowledge school to put the individual student in the centre. We want a school that provides individual students with organized training. But in order to achieve learning, you have to feel mastering. SV is not against the testing or evaluation of students. Coating the multiplication tables is a matter of course. But the national tests are not just a test. They're all-embracing, and they represent a whole new vision and a whole new turn of knowledge. National tests control all school learning. Now the fourth grade is on the move. I'm one of those moms of someone who's in fourth grade. What does the school do? It does just like all the other schools. There are weeks of preparation in school for the national test. The tests are sent home because the students have to do well. Why? We have experience from other countries – «Teaching to the Test». Several countries disregard the type of national samples that Norway is now introducing. We have experiences, including from Norway, where we send home students who are afraid to make it bad on the tests. The national tests create losers and winners and do not lead to mastering at school. We in SV believe that national tests inhibit school learning and quality development. Money that should have been spent on quality development in school, used for training, temporary workers and for the correction of national samples. SV believes that the tests cost more than the tastes, and we are not interested that students in school today will pay the price it costs. SV suggests a whole new type of national test, where part of the student group is withdrawn, and the rest of the school and the students can use the test as they want. It is necessary and in time for the national samples to have a ‘time-out’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1255	The council suggested that I was in favour of competition and ranking because I mentioned that a visually impaired student who does not have enough time is cutting low. It is the teacher who says it – that the student is cutting low. It also shows, I think, something about how teachers are concerned that one should do it as well as possible in class, so that one can see that this class has a good level. In addition, we know that a lot of time is spent preparing for these tests. I would like to stress that we are not at all opposed to learning support measures. Actually, that's absolutely necessary. It doesn't matter at all. But why a visually impaired student should not be given additional time on a national test, as he does on all other tests, I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1262	It's liberating to hear Arne Sortevik. He calls a spade a spade, and he says what we're talking about. He says we need, and we need, more measurements. He says that measurement at school is needed to gain insight into the school, and that the school has to open up to the outside world. While the others who make up the majority talk about this as a educational tool for the individual teacher, he talks about measurements and insights. There is clearly a different approach to these national tests. When I hear Sortevik, I feel committed to the 1970s with the attempts of positiveism to intervene in most of Norwegian politics. Fortunately, that time we had philosophers like Hans Schirvheim, who could reveal positivism and reveal that this with measurement, weighing and control does not drive us further. We miss a Hans Skjervheim in today's debate on national tests. A small comment to Sortevik: When we dealt with St. report. No 28 for 1998-1999, we were concerned with user involvement, and ‘user’ in this context was parents. SV is concerned that parents are involved and involved in evaluating, evaluating and assisting in the quality development of the school. This is one of the pillars of St. Meld. No 28, which I started off with. His claim that we are not concerned with the parents is crazy, cf. what we meant during the processing of the said wholesale notification. So to the claim to believe in Christmas Eve. My point was so simple that these tests, these types of tests, don't bring any new knowledge, any new information, to the teachers. Several of the teachers have had the students for many years. They know most about their students — both their professional level and their background. They have a good insight into the students, and this insight is to form the basis for adapted training. My claim is that this type of test, this type of test, doesn't bring any new knowledge to the teachers about how the students do it, or about the students' skill levels. They probably know the most about that, precisely because it's those who are in daily contact with the students. It's those students who know about them, who have had tests with them, and who know the most about them. That was the point of using the term ‘faith in Christmas’ – as if these tests were bringing some new knowledge and new information to the teachers. They don't, in our opinion, do that at all, because the teachers already have the knowledge, the knowledge that is needed to make good and adapted training courses for each individual student, which they are required to do, and which is necessary if you're to succeed in doing a good school even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1275	I felt the need to deepen a little in relation to the visually impaired student – I got a little bad conscience after the quick answer. Of course, I cannot comment on this individual case. But in general it is that a visually impaired student will receive normal arrangements in the form of typescript, font size, etc., but no longer on the test. The background to this is not a political assessment, but it is an assessment by the professional community because they believe that it is the best basis for providing the student with better adapted training. But I have not commented on this individual case. And then I can't help but comment on SV, because it's claimed here that these national tests represent a completely new view of knowledge. I hear that the SV representative, without me interfering too much, responds to the fact that the Progress Party is involved in measurement. But it is less than two years since SV conducted an entire election campaign on a school policy, where it was stated in the SV's programme: ‘SV will have a target-driven school based on the overall objectives of the skills and knowledge to acquire... To this end, we need national measuring tools... a free school for all requires continuous quality measurement. For this reason, it is important that national tests evaluate school policies and teaching methods... SV will work for national tests to test professional quality, well-being and the learning environment.’ This was elaborated by the pilot-in-command of the lot by confirming that this national test system was currently being implemented at those stages and that it had to be transparent. The Swedish school policy for 2003 was based on getting simpler curriculums with clear objectives, removing the national professional and hourly distribution, and having national tests and continuous measurement to ensure that these schools were good for everyone. I see it shakes on my head here, but this is a quote. I haven't made it up myself. So to a topic that has been affected here, namely whether the information has been good enough, the purpose of the tests, costs, etc. We need to examine this in more detail – let me say that it is quite interesting in itself, because it clearly reveals that there are quality differences in Norwegian school: some schools have perceived each comma, each point, all about the purpose of the tests, how they are to be carried out – the tests have been carried out completely unproblematic, no problems – while other schools say that it has cost them a tremendous amount of time, work, money, etc. What it tells me is that in some schools you have a planning and evaluation culture that is quite well developed. Then it's not that big a problem to accept this system of national tests. In other schools, a culture of planning and evaluation has not been developed, and this may have been stressful. We should examine this in more detail, but I think it's quite interesting in itself to see how different the feedback on these points are.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1291	I cannot spare myself the thought that the message from the representatives of Rikvam and Jensen sounds a bit hollow. Rolf Reikvam is progressing towards the Progress Party because the Progress Party is engaged in measurement. I don't know about any other party that's more concerned with measurement than the Socialist Left Party. Number of PCs per. Students shall be measured, the number of teachers per. Students shall be measured, indoor climate measured, bullying measured. But the one thing that matters is not to be measured: the student's learning outcomes. I think it's a little strange, I have to say that. The representative Reikham seems to believe that the introduction of the national tests represents a completely new view of knowledge. Why didn't he mean it two years ago, when the tests were introduced? Why didn't he mean this when he sailed and his party wanted national tests in all schools, for all students, at all the stages on which it was decided to have it? It does not represent anything new that we have now introduced what SV at the time helped to adopt. I also think that there is a bit of a hollow description when the representative Lena Jensen at the pulpit says that SV is for ‘a demanding knowledge school’ – SV, which therefore says no to admission requirements for teacher training, which says no to stricter requirements for general study competence to prepare students for the study, which says no to exams and grades. For me, it does not represent a ‘intensive knowledge school’ at all!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2132]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1308	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1342	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1350	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-5, by Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 6, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make concrete proposals for the establishment of closed receptions for persons who are illegally staying and do not return.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1378	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1385	Then the votes to 80 were corrected and 15 voted in favour. With these votes, the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1388	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2–5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1424	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:26 [[2004-2005]] The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1450	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsenproposal No. 3, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The decision requests the Government to postpone planned national tests in 2006.2. The majority asks the Government for further work to assume that any information from national samples to national level should be based on a statistical sample of pupils.3. The Government is asking for further work to be carried out by the Government on the involvement of different professional environments in the development of tests that can be offered to schools as a educational tool.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1479	I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I had to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1484	Then the votes are corrected. The proposal is therefore not accepted by 79 votes to 15. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget requires the Government to incorporate a scheme for the final retirement of the State budget for 2005 to ensure that all school owners are covered by their documented costs of establishment, start-up and operation in connection with national initial training tests. The size assumes that the same scheme is included in the 2006 State budget. It further asks that future evaluation of the system of national tests also include proposals for future funding based on the fact that all verifiable expenditure on national tests is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1501	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, says: ‘Document No. 8:51 [[2004-2005]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19.ana.ud1946e1530	There is no record.
