ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e60	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e76	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e87	The new Labour and Welfare Administration Stortinget is being invited to adopt today is a long-term reform. The measures are clear: fewer on social benefits and more in activity. The user shall have a single point of contact through a common first line — a more efficient management so that resources can be freed from work against users. The new labour and welfare management is a whole new organisation where users are at the forefront. Today's system of a social security office and a social office is disappearing. It becomes a labour and welfare office in all municipalities. It will be the contact point of the users for all government services and for municipal services, at least for economic social assistance. The Employment and Welfare Office will cooperate between the State and the municipality, but the user will experience it as a single office. The diet and the social security system are disappearing. There will be a new state labour and welfare office. The municipalities retain responsibility for the social services. There is no obvious background for this reform to be necessary. Too many people are out of work and receive public support. A whole of 700,000, i.e. one out of four, in working age, are wholly or partly out of work. If we are to maintain our welfare society, this is a situation that is not sustainable. It requires that we do something about today's organisation of labour and welfare services, which is not well enough designed to help people to work. Demographic development also forces us to do something active, because it presents welfare policy with new challenges through increased pressure on labour resources and a strong increase in the cost of health and care services and pensions. We need more hands at work. The need for reform is also great because many users meet a fragmented administration organised across the needs of many users. Many are going too far on social protection or social assistance before active labour-oriented measures are introduced. We know that the longer you go passive, the more likely you are to fall out of work, the more likely you are to fall out of work. It is then a problem that today’s coordination for users who need many services is not good enough. The fact that users have to run from office to office and experience being thrown balls between three different levels is an unworthy situation for the individual. No one has to be forced to tell their life story three times to three different people. While the objective of increasing employment and reducing social benefits is important in order to strengthen the working line, it is also necessary to stress that work is about something more than meeting socio-economic objectives. Work is a value in itself. It provides social anchoring and is the best guarantee against poverty and social exclusion. The objective of a simpler system for users and increased adaptation to the needs of users is necessary in order to achieve the objective of more people at work. However, it is important that this objective also includes those outside the labour market. There are some of us who will never be able to get into normal work, possibly only to a very limited extent. They will also have a simpler system to deal with and a better and more adapted offer through the new reform. I don't see any contradiction in this. I think it is both possible and necessary to have full pressure on both parts. Getting the most out of work is not the opposite of improving the provision of services to those who are unable to live without public support. At the same time, it is necessary to have as much work as possible in order to maintain a good welfare society, including a safety net for those who need it the most. The aim of a more comprehensive and effective management of labour and welfare is both to provide more coordinated services to users and to organise work so that a greater proportion of resources are released to the work of maximising activity. In terms of saving administrative costs, it is important to set aside sufficient resources to provide good services to users. The greatest economic gain of this reform will come through reduced payments of passive benefits, as a result of which more people get into work. The proposal suggests that the division of labour between the State and the municipality should remain the same as it is today. This means that municipalities should retain their responsibility for tasks under the social services law, and that political responsibility for labour market policy remains national and continues to be directly nationally anchored in the pension and social welfare systems of the population. A broad majority of the Committee supports this model. However, the Progress Party proposes that all three floors be grouped in one state establishment with a co-localized welfare office in each municipality. I leave to the Progress Party myself to argue for its model, so I will concentrate on explaining why the government parties think it is right to continue the efforts of both the state and the municipality. Similarly, I leave to the SV and the Progress Party to argue for their proposal to introduce national social assistance standards that are nationally funded, and to the SV and the Centre to seek out a system of guaranteed minimum income. It is true that municipalities, which are the administrative level closest to the population, are also responsible for the lower social security network. At the same time, it is important to maintain the link between economic social assistance and other important municipal services. To put it this way: If the municipalities were not to be responsible for their inhabitants when they needed the most help and are in an acute economic crisis situation, I do not know what to do with the municipalities. The continued discretionary nature of economic social assistance, as the majority of the Committee advocates, ensures that each citizen receives an individual assessment of his situation and that it is seen in the context of any other measures taken. Equally little is the communitisation of labour market policy or the rule-based rights regimes in the social security system. In order to ensure that users access one door to all services, one first line service is established, where users with complex needs are provided with a fixed contact person. The first line service is based on committed cooperation between the country and the municipality defined in local cooperation agreements. There shall be at least one employment and welfare office in each municipality which is the contact point of the users. In order to provide the user with rapid and comprehensive needs clarifications and services, the overall toolbox of the welfare management needs to be used in the first line service and by the case handler who meets the user. Work-ability users must be given the opportunity to enter work-oriented processes quickly. A collection of instruments in a first line could also lead to better and closer cooperation with employers and businesses. I believe a great deal of local freedom to figure out for myself how to organise the individual labour and welfare offices is a prerequisite for success. Municipalities are different, not only in size, but also in relation to different local challenges that require different focus from different offices. In order to ensure flexible solutions locally, it is therefore important that the proposal opens up inter-municipal cooperation, that larger municipalities can take responsibility for parts of labour market policy, and that the state and local authorities can do tasks for each other. Large local freedom is also necessary in order to reconcile quality and top skills with a wide range of first-line users. In order to be able to follow-up each user and ensure that the objective of more people in activity is met, it is important that plans that will serve as a social contract that shows rights and obligations should be set up for increased use of individual plans. Similarly, work-related benefits should be accompanied by clear requirements while ensuring full follow-up and active action for recipients. The merger of the social security system and the Aetat will pose major challenges, as will the establishment of the first-line service in cooperation with the municipalities. But challenges are as well known to be solved, and it can be a positive experience if conditions are made right. It is the employees who are going to be the most decisive success criterion for the reform. It is therefore necessary to make use of significant resources for joint empowerment and common cultural construction, as well as the provision of sufficient funds for the reorganisation, including the development of common ICT tools. The importance of empowerment is such that a unanimous committee felt it appropriate to reinforce the proposal in this area by two proposals, which address both the need for sufficient resources for empowerment and the overall development of skills in the new labour and welfare management. In a reorganisation, occupational safety is also important. The proposition clearly says that no one should lose their job because of the reorganisation. In addition, the conversion costs are estimated at approx. Three billion dollars over five to seven years, but from the government's side, this is only an estimate. The implementation process is planned and the necessary legislative changes will be promoted so that the formal establishment of a new common government establishment can take place from the second half of 2006. Furthermore, the objective is for the first line service to be substantially co-located across the country by 2010. The Government's proposal for new management of labour and welfare is primarily an organisational reform, which is an important instrument for achieving the objective of a comprehensive labour and social policy. The proposal needs to be seen in the context of the Government's overall strategy for a more inclusive society and working life, and must be seen in the context of, inter alia, The IA work, the poverty rate and the new pension reform. In addition, the government has announced that work has been started on an overall review of the instruments aimed at people of working age. Some people may think it would be better to do the organisational reform and the tool review in parallel. To that end, the reform that we are about to adopt today has its own effect, and that both a merger and perhaps extensive changes in the instruments would at once be too extensive a task. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. It has been exciting to work with one of the most important labour and welfare reforms in recent times. I'm happy to see the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e133	Over a number of years, we in the Social Committee have focused on the problem defined as gambling issues. In this connection, we have been concerned that clients have received inadequate or inadequate help from the auxiliary device. There are clients who have been referred from one department to another, but also clients who have received help and benefits that hit each other. There are clients who have been in contact with Aetat, partly with the social security system and partly with the social security office. The various agencies have set up what their department could help with, or tried to send the client to another office with other tools. Casting clients tend to be people with complex needs and problems, and this often means that they can have different combinations of social, economic and medical difficulties. The way our auxiliaries are organised means that the client often only gets help to solve parts of his problem, and sometimes even gets a help that reinforces other problems, because the organisation does not provide opportunities to put the client in the center and thus find a comprehensive solution. Experiences suggest that the individual often remains in a long-term client situation. The Committee's commitment in this respect was further strengthened following the 2001 election campaign, where one seriously raised the issue of poverty on the political agenda. Many concrete fates made a poverty that was unknown to many. There was a clear demonstration that the image of the nation of Norway as best in the world in terms of living standards did not apply to all — there was a demonstration that a statistical approach to well-being and living conditions does not give a picture of the actual living conditions of neither individuals nor individual groups. 300,000 unemployed, approx. 200,000 sick, 100 000 unemployed and 100 000 unemployed are not only social security statistics, but also tell of a work life that is closed to many, with the result that more people become poor. This is behind the Committee's wish and concrete proposal for an investigation into the merger of the three welfare seats. At the same time, there was a strong desire for an inclusive working life policy so that more people could find the way to working life and thereby secure income and livelihood. Now is not the question of the coordination of the Aetat, social security and social services of a new date, it has been on the political agenda from the free-dominant projects of the 1970s. Common to these projects was that through project organisation they were given the opportunity to use more instruments than the individual etats had in isolation. Thus, the instruments of the Aetas, the Social Welfare Agency and the Social Agency were transferred to projects, together with personnel and financial resources. However, the problem with these projects, which were defined as successful, was that they were projects, and it stopped when the fires were gone. When assessing the backstop and what has happened in the past, one might say that the present proposal is a long step forward towards a more coherent governance – and towards a comprehensive governance that could persist and continue to evolve. When the state agencies are merged, a number of instruments are developed that can be used in a more flexible and adapted way in relation to the individual client. This is an important step in the right direction. The fact that one should have a common first-line service with the social service in the municipality and that it should be based on a framework agreement between the KS and the ministry is a significant step in the right direction. The opening up of State and local authorities to delegate powers to each other by means of such an agreement is a step in the right direction of a more coherent administration — a step that allows the client to use the entire toolbox over which the overall welfare management operates. Thus, the framework agreement will open up different models in municipalities. At the same time, one can gain experience in what works best and thus develop best practice. Aetate, social security and social services have traditionally had different approaches to the help they provide to their clients, but all the agencies manage important competences and the necessary instruments. When individual case handlers are now to be able to use larger parts of the welfare management tools, it is important that the competences of the different authorities are respected, while building a common culture and competence that can be used in a common labour and welfare office. The Ministry’s proposal for an educational or university social office that can operate with a common methodological development for the new welfare management is an important part of the work that needs to be done in order to build up skills. This is a comprehensive reform that will affect many thousands of clients, but also several thousand employees. It is important that the interim organisation responsible for preparing the merger of the two state agencies has representation from both government administrations and that employees’ organisations are involved in the process of change. The present proposal is initially an organisational change proposal, so that people can be better helped for self-help, and then, at first, strengthen their chances of getting into work. But there is also an organisational change that aims to provide people with proper help for the services and benefits that welfare management can provide collectively. The welfare laws we have today are largely based on the fact that help is to be provided by the existing agencies as they look today. It is therefore also necessary to review legislation in several areas, so that it can also be used in a way that is appropriate for the client. In this context, it will be important for the Workers' Party not to weaken the rights currently in the welfare systems. We want to protect the sick pay system, and we want to ensure the unemployed with the rights they have previously had. We have no faith that cuts in social security benefits, for example. in the disservice, will motivate people to work. On the other hand, we believe that economic security provides greater opportunities for obtaining the psychological surplus needed to get into work. We have a different policy to stimulate activity. We will reintroduce the Youth Guarantee and ensure that all young people under the age of 24 are entitled to work or education. But this is the relationship we have to get back to when the legal content is to be processed in Stortinget. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e161	The representative Britt Hildeng has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e164	The present attitude to a new labour and welfare reform in the Progress Party is a major step in the right direction for users. In the implementation of this setting, users will be taken seriously, not only be throwing balls between different agencies to get their legal rights within the shortest possible time, thus avoiding frustration and stress for the individual. Unfortunately, it has taken a long time to bring this matter to the plenary in Stortinget, this “thank you” government, which did not fully take the signals that the Stortinget provided for a coordinated establishment for work and well-being in the municipalities from the beginning. It is well in the driest layer when the Government in the setting tries to underline that the present position and the totality of the matter are a proposal from the Government. This is with respect to not reporting quite correctly. It is the Stortinget that has ordered and ordered the Government to investigate and submit to the Stortinget various proposals for a comprehensive labour and social policy. The present position has broad political support in Stortinget. It is only the Progress Party that would have a different device and thus include municipal and social services in the reform. We are promoting our own primary proposal to include social action in the coordination between the Aetate and the Social Security Act, with a state-wide financial responsibility. However, once the proposal of the party has been dropped, the party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the present position. There is a great deal in the present position that the Progress Party very much agrees with, and it is obvious, as many have said, that this reform will take care of the interests of users, including the clients of social affairs, in a much better and more orderly way in each municipality. I allow myself to quote from a majority comment Note from the entire Committee of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the vote: ‘The members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Progress Party assume that the reform also involves a coordinated approach to users, both those who primarily need labour market measures and those who need a combination of labour market measures, municipal measures and services from other parts of the public administration such as outpatient psychiatric services. These members stress that all groups of users with complex needs should be given comprehensive care, and in order to achieve this, the use of individual plans must be central.» A transformation and a coordinated welfare reform, as described in the preamble, is a major reform that requires multidisciplinary competence. The Progress Party considers that overall developments in labour and welfare management competence are not adequately addressed in the Government’s proposal. The Progress Party has therefore joined forces with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left on a majority proposal from the Committee as a whole, proposing Decision III to ask the Government to draw up concrete plans for the overall development of the competence of the new labour and welfare management. I think this is absolutely necessary. It was disappointing for the Progress Party that it was not possible to include the Workers' Party on a proposal from the Socialist Left and the Progress Party that, by reviewing all social welfare schemes, it would be transferred to a state-owned national responsibility, with indicative social assistance standards. Unfortunately, we will be able to experience again great variations in the size of social assistance from municipality to municipality and from county to county. It would be a retreat. I would strongly urge the Labour Party to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 in the setting. I also refer to a joint comment from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, which believes it is right to legislate on cooperation between the state budget and the municipalities by setting up a minimum requirement for local agreements and co-location, and that all the municipalities are guaranteed at least one welfare office. Although the present position relates to an organisational reform, I refer to a majority comment from the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party where the Government is made aware that when the organisational reform is being implemented, it must also be important to implement significant simplifications in relation to those who are beneficiaries of social assistance in each municipality, and that the social welfare systems become sufficient, so that social clients do not continue to become a pariah in the social transmission system. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e197	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e200	SV has long been concerned that persons who have fallen out of the labour market for various reasons or have not yet entered the labour market are meeting a public service offer that can provide rapid and individually adapted assistance. It has also been important for SV to ensure that we have arrangements to ensure that persons who for different reasons and for a short or longer period of time do not have income from their own work are guaranteed a safe economic foundation through various public benefits and social welfare schemes. For this reason, SV has also pointed out in various contexts weaknesses both in the case of the aid and aid apparatus, and in the case of social security schemes, and we have made proposals to correct such weaknesses and shortcomings. In this context, I would like to point out that the SV has long called for and also put forward proposals to establish a single public welfare office to replace the current third – in the two state institutions, the social security system and the Aetat, and the social action of the municipalities. SV has been particularly concerned with the unfortunateness of this organisation, which expresses the fact that many people who need assistance are experiencing throwing balls between these three floors. This was a main reason why SV, together with the majority in Stortinget, was treated by St.meld. No 14 for 2002–03 went in to send it back to the Government. With this background, SV believes that the proposal for an organisational model in the matter we are dealing with today is a good step in the right direction. However, we believe it would be right and sensible to continue working on models for a full aggregation of one public employment and welfare seat, but we do not propose it in this context. A merger of the current social security system and Aetat is a major organisational reform affecting approx. 16 000 employees, and it will pose major challenges. Bringing together two large state agencies with partly different cultures, objectives and approaches makes great demands for both planning and implementation. For this reason, it is so important that from the first day, significant resources will be allocated to common skills enhancement and common cultural construction in order to ensure that the two state agencies actually become one new establishment. SV is particularly concerned with the need to develop a broad and complex competence in the common first line. In the consultations carried out by the Committee, several employee organisations have expressed concerns as to whether the cost estimates for migration and a common ICT tool are adequate. Therefore, the importance of ensuring sufficient financial resources for the reorganisation itself cannot be strongly emphasised. Unfortunately, we have seen too often in major shifts, both in the private and public sectors, that savings and efficiency gains are calculated at the reorganization stage itself, and that this estimated savings are used as part of the financing of the reorganization itself. This will be a strong warning against this. All experience shows that successful conversions require additional costs during the preparatory and implementation phases and that savings can only be calculated and taken out after the conversion has been completed. By doing so, the chances of a successful outcome will increase considerably, and all employees — and not least all those in need of support and assistance from the new organisation — will depend on this to be a successful process. SV agrees with the overall objective of providing everyone with support, assistance and the possibility of entering or returning to work. But at the same time, it is very important for us to stress that this should not lead to a reduction in priorities for those who need long-term and complex offers and actions and who may never have the opportunity to get into work. So we must not be given a fragmented and less accessible service to the most vulnerable and most difficult social welfare recipients. In parallel with the efforts to establish a new State body, it is therefore important that cooperation and integration with municipal social services become a central element of the preparation and implementation of the reform in order to ensure the social professional perspective of the new first-line service. What the government is proposing in this expansion proposition is essentially an organisational reform, which many people have been involved in. At the same time, the Government announces that it will return to questions about services, the content of services and various social welfare schemes at a later date. SV believes that if we are to succeed in providing good and individually well-adapted services, have rapid clarification and swift implementation of good measures, while ensuring safe financial arrangements for individuals, an organisational form alone is not sufficient. It is therefore important that the organisational reform is followed up quickly with a full review of the legislation, services and services relating to the new labour and welfare seat. Such a review must have two main objectives in particular. Firstly, it must ensure simplification and adaptation of all the underlying legislation to the new entity, and secondly, public benefits must be subject to the same simplification and adaptation. Very much indicates that many people in today’s system not only become a caste ball between ‘doors’ and institutions, but at least as much as a throw ball between different public performances, both based on the level of performance and the entry criteria and with a background to the level or political level of funding for the different performances. This is a situation which, in the SV's opinion, does not need to continue. In order to counteract this, several have been called upon to replace many of today's benefits and schemes with a State-guaranteed minimum or minimum income. This could significantly simplify the current system, both for users and for employees. In this way, the scheme could mean both a socio-economic saving in the form of reduced bureaucracy and greater security and predictability for the population. SV therefore believes that such a system must be investigated in connection with that review, among other things. the performance notified by the Government. And we also propose this in the vote. I am constantly informed that many recipients of public benefits have a difficult economic situation, because the minimum level of several benefits is too low. This is confirmed by the fact that more and more recipients of social security have to resort to economic social assistance in order to meet their financial obligations. This affects, in particular, beneficiaries who are responsible for the care of children. Therefore, in its proposals for the State budget in recent years, SV has also proposed to increase the support supplements in the various social welfare schemes. We have also proposed a review of the level of economic social assistance and various social security benefits in order to ensure a sound level of social assistance. This is an important part of the SV’s strategy to combat poverty in Norway and, in particular, poverty among children. The level of economic social assistance varies considerably from municipality to municipality. This is perceived as unfair and creates poor predictability. Therefore, SV considers that national minimum standards for this performance need to be introduced which are higher than the current indicative rates and which are nationally funded. The latter is important in order to ensure an almost equal social minimum standard for the population, regardless of the municipality in which you live. We propose that this be presented as a proposal in the context of the review of the performances that the Government says it will provide. It is essential for the use of services to be made more accessible. Therefore, the law-making of a common first-line service in a co-location with the social service of the municipality is a proper and absolutely necessary act. On the SV side, I would like to stress strongly that a labour and welfare office has to be set up in all the municipalities of the country, in order to ensure this availability. Then it opens up an inter-municipal cooperation where the conditions are conducive to it. But once again, I would like to stress that this must only happen exceptionally where geographical distances are particularly short, and this must not lead to a deterioration in accessibility and user-friendliness. In addition to good accessibility, it is essential that the first line should have a level of competence and decision-making responsibilities that make these offices a place where people actually experience the guidance and assistance they need, as far as possible without having to contact other offices, agencies and ‘doors’. The common first line must comply with clear requirements for rapid clearance, removal of grey zones and throwing-ball trends and the rapid start of action. If we can do that, the users of the services will feel that what we are doing now is an improvement for them, and that must be the overall goal. With this I address the proposals that SV is behind in the setting, which have not already been addressed by others here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e240	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e243	The background to the downturn is that 700,000 people of working age are totally or partly out of work and have public social benefits as their main source of income. This shows that time is overdue for change. The Christian People's Party supports the objective of a new organisational reform. The new establishment structure in the field of labour and welfare is an important instrument for increasing employment and active activities and reducing social protection and social assistance. It is important that a follow up on the intention of an inclusive working life for all who are able to work something. Priority must continue to be given to ensuring full employment and high occupational participation. The new labour and welfare management needs to focus on how to prevent exclusion, so that more people get work. Work is the most important strategy for well-being and for poverty and social distress. An overall committee agrees that today’s third division, with the Aetat, social security and municipal social services, is not adapted to the needs of users for a comprehensive offer across the floors. The Christian People's Party sees the advantage of gathering everything at one level, but nevertheless believes that today's division of responsibilities between state and municipality is the best. I think about how important it is to have knowledge and overview of the labour market beyond the municipal borders. At the same time, it is important that the municipality coordinate its activities in the areas of health, housing and drug use. During the hearing, the FFO underlined that this is best for the follow-up and service needs of disabled and chronically ill people. The establishment of a Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been forward-looking. The Christian People's Party naturally finds that one establishes a new state state, a new state of work and welfare, which replaces the Aetat and the Social Security Act. In this way, government responsibility for instruments related to work and reduced working capacity is combined. This agency will also be responsible for the new pension reform. Retirement is largely rights-fixed and regulated, while the work part has a greater degree of flexibility, assessment and judgement. It will be important to develop common understanding of objectives, common competences and common culture. Such a budget could provide economies of scale and efficiency gains for the benefit of users. The same gain could be achieved by the new employment and welfare offices to be established in each municipality. The Office shall be at least the contact point of the users for all State services and the management of social economic assistance by the municipality. The Christian People's Party welcomes the establishment of a framework agreement between the State and the KS. It is important that the framework agreement stimulates different cooperation models and that government and local government can carry out tasks for each other. Large municipalities may, for example: take more responsibility for labour market measures for the beneficiaries of social assistance. Users shall meet with an office inviting user assistance and self-activity. It is important for users that they have an easily accessible door to deal with and that the service appears to be a common single first line service and not just a co-location. Prompt clarification of individual level needs and offers is important for those in need of coordinated services. The Christian People's Party will maintain economic social assistance as a discretionary and need-tested benefit under municipal law. We think it's important to see it in conjunction with other municipal services, so that the user gets an integrated and customised offer. The consideration of employees is important in such a large process of conversion, which affects so many. It is important to make use of the competence of employees and to motivate them to participate actively. Good processes have been set up to ensure a common first line and flexible use of personnel. Agreements, joint leadership development, skills development, methodological tools and, in particular, ICT will contribute to this. Work on prevention of sick leave and disability at work needs to be intensified. The workline is important, but for the Christian People's Party, it is equally important that people who will never get to work are taken care of. We look forward to a review of all the instruments, and to a new job-seeker's benefit being assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e281	This is a big and important matter, and it is a matter that has gone over relatively many years. When we got St.meld. No 14 for 2002-2003, the so-called SATS message, a majority of us in the Storting felt that not enough effort had been made in that context. It was an unfinished concept, and the message was then also rejected and sent back with a message from Stortinget that it would have a better basis for decision. We must be able to say that we've got in connection with the proposition that we're now dealing with. It is important that there will be a comprehensive treatment of these matters, which have so much to say for individuals. Users must have one place to turn and not have the throwball function that they have had in many contexts until now. The government strongly focuses on improving efficiency and economic savings in the conversion to the so-called NAV scheme. It is not uninteresting and immaterial in any way. But what must have first priority and focus is the concern of the individual. The overall thing must be how the individual is taken care of, that you get a complete treatment and get into a worthy situation in order to be once again a person of benefit, can get into work and handle yourself as much as possible. I will come back to those who are unable to get into work. It is important that this cooperation through the NAV system now appears to be a solution, and that cooperation be established between the State and the municipality, that the municipalities retain responsibility for social assistance, and that we establish a system for coordinating well-being and work, in order to improve the situation for individuals. It is a major and demanding reform, and the main resource of this reform, both in the conversion and conversion processes themselves and in the future operation and processing of this new scheme, are the employees. But if they're approx. 16,000 employees should be able to be this important resource, so financial resources are needed to make a transition and a system that everyone is satisfied with and that glides in a proper way. Among other things, there must be: the tool is good enough and so that it can be used by all in the scheme, in order to ensure the best possible coordination of procedures. I'm thinking not least about the ICT tool. The government has said that this will cost approx. Three billion kroner. There is an estimate that I am afraid is too low, and in this setting we also ask the Government to come back and make sufficient resources available. The development of competence in the new entity is important. It is also important that we have offices in all municipalities where employees can use their authority and make service available in a broad and coordinated way. However, local competences also need to be developed and exploited. This is why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are asking that the local competence and knowledge of work and employment become a central part of the service provision of the new Employment and Welfare Act. It is important that you can do the jobs for each other, even if you come from different agencies, and that there is a flexible use of staff. Law and legislation are also important, and this is what we need to get back to. I would also draw attention to the rights of the unemployed. We want a youth guarantee to be applied to everyone under the age of 24. The SV and the Centre also want to have a system investigated – we hope it will become a majority for it afterwards – with guaranteed minimum income as an alternative to many of today’s social security schemes. It is also important that those who are unable to enter the working position have a security of full-time treatment and a system that provides a safe and dignified living situation. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that the Centre Party and the SV are asking for a review of the level of economic social assistance and various social security benefits to ensure a sound level of this. This is important, not least to combat poverty in Norway and, in particular, poverty among children. I hope that with this system, we have set up an overall offer for those who have problems with their economy and their employment, so that they can experience a different everyday life than what has been largely the case to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e303	It's a fact that many people perceive the meeting with the public auxiliaries as very heavy. We all know that people have experienced that the Social Security Office, the Social Security Office and the Aetat have cooperated too badly. As a citizen, they have fallen between two chairs in a phase of life where help and assistance might have been entirely decisive. In addition, many have felt strongly stigmatized when they have had to visit, for example. the social office. If society is to meet citizens with transparent and good welfare measures, it needs to reform. Time has been too slow to get caught up in this. The government's proposal to establish a first-line service for the whole range of services in the labour and welfare administration with one office in each municipality is an important and proper step towards a better welfare society. The creation of close and committed cooperation between the State and the municipality is very positive, and perhaps decisive for the success of this reform. If there's something we all know about, that's the case where bad co-operation between state and local authorities has led to a worse follow-up of the individual. We can't have it like that! We all know that the connection to and mastering of working life is decisive for a very large number who are in a difficult situation. To make the way into or back to work the easiest possible, closer cooperation between the social service, the social security system and the Aetat is crucial. Therefore, co-location is so important. To ensure user involvement and visibility of rights and obligations for both citizens and service providers, an active and good use of individual levels is a core point. Such a civil contract should also be linked to the payment of both social assistance and social benefits, including: requirements for performance are very positive. One next step, set with the Left-eye, will be, among other things. to focus further on the income protection system to be provided to those who are not related to paid working lives. Today’s welfare state faces major challenges. Demographic conditions underline the need to rethink when equipping the welfare state for the future. Weaknesses in today's system have shown us that individuals often fall between two chairs when they need the help of the public. An unwieldy and fragmented welfare state makes it complicated to get needed help and to know their rights. Should the welfare state be able to function its solutions in relation to the individual, the individual must be placed in the centre. Co-location, coordination and pooling of welfare services has proved to be a premise to achieve this. The use of individual plans and the establishment of some form of urban contract will be useful tools for the new department for years to come. A good welfare society has transparent, secure and dignified systems. With the government's proposal, we have taken a big leap in that direction. I hope that when this reform is implemented, it will not be a door in and many different doors inside that the user has to pass through. I hope that this coordination and co-location, where many different working cultures will work together, will be successful. So I would like to comment on the Socialist Left's proposal to draw out a guaranteed minimum income. This is actually in the Sem Declaration. For the Left, the most important job would be to get this coordination and the co-location of the auxiliary device. It's the most important job. I expect that when the government is now working on this, and if you click on it, it will follow up the Sem statement at the next point, because one has prioritised this job first. We will not vote in favour of the Socialist Left Party's proposal, because this is actually what the Government is doing. The most important thing is to get this collaboration and get one door in. I really hope we're really happy with this. It's actually very important decisions we make in Stortinget today. There is a decision on a matter that Left has worked for too long, and we are very happy that we have managed to get through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e324	The Coastal Party agrees that the most important thing to combat poverty is that people have a job to go to. Retraining and retraining through Aetat can catch up with some of the unemployed, but the dramatic growth in disability and over 100,000 unemployed shows that the government’s policy has been flawed. The coastal party has repeatedly warned against what has been called a framework-driven narrowing in the labour market, for human labour is not a neutral capital value that can be relocated to the benefit of politicians. The first two years of this ageing period were marked by the fact that the Government would ‘release’ labour from both the public and private sectors simultaneously, in order to secure the labour reserve for still unborn business. This framework-driven ‘release’ of labour by exacerbating the conditions of the Norwegian industry and by being a nodule to the EEA legislation has led to an explosion of the costs of sickness and disability benefits, and we have received 45,000 more registered poor people in Norway. This is how it goes when the Cooperative Government leaves its conservative anchoring and lives in sin with the Advance Party. The reorganisation of labour and welfare seats does not change this fact. As late as November 2003, then State Council Victor D. Norman was on lunch TV defending tight public budgets and high interest rates. At that time, 20 000-30 000 industrial workplaces were out of the flag, 20 000-30 000 job-choice-disabled workers were retired. The forecast for available teachers and nurses was rising. At the same time, the Government provided for increased immigration of cheap foreign labour, sales to the rest of the world by Norwegian key companies and privatisation and listing of renewable value added bases. Selling Norway bit by bit provides the basis for increasing poverty in Norway. That's what the Coastal Party will still fight against. The puzzled measures taken to combat national poverty in the last two years are insufficient repair work in relation to the policy-driven phase-out of jobs, a policy that is still in progress in health, care and school. One dramatic side effect of the government's policy is that employers, both in public and in private, have reduced many thousands of disabled people out of work. Many of the disabled who meet closed doors to work today are highly educated and highly skilled. The policies that have been pursued are in stark contrast to the rights that disabled people have been granted on the Grand Duchy. The coastal party wants a statutory minimum rate based on the average cost-of-living index at the bottom of both social assistance and social security rates for people who have no other income. It must also be possible to get help without first having to sell everything to an owner. When the 2003 government introduced a system of temporary disability where the minimum rate was less than NOK 90 000, many were forced to leave home and house. In the future, the coordination of public services in the field of labour and welfare must prevent people who come into a difficult situation without guilt from being forced into the private welfare they have accumulated over many years of work. The coastal party finds it unheard of that new arrivals of immigrants on the introduction programme have received a statutory higher income than ethnic Norwegian minimum pensioners and temporary unemployees. It violates the old requirement: Do your duty, demand your right – in that order. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party propose a youth guarantee for those who do not complete secondary school. I can only refer to the Coastal Party's proposal in Document No. 8:03 for 2001-2002 on measures to prevent early disability and permanent exclusion from the labour market. A new youth guarantee must be more concrete than the youth guarantees currently presented by the left-hand side. That's what the Coastal Party will do. Finally, a comment to SV. They keep the tab high when they talk about fighting poverty, but they undermine the business opportunity to make money, and at the same time they undermine the ability to maintain a good and safe standard of living for the even Norwegian population. This is the big paradox in SV – the hope is that the Norwegian people will see this in time before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e350	It is very positive that a broad political majority today supports the reform of labour and welfare management in this country. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Storting and the Committee for Overtime Engagement in the matter, and also to give important impetus to the proposal made by the Government. The broad political support contained in the vote provides a solid political foundation for the proper implementation and success of the reform. I would like to focus my attention on the objectives of what we are about to do. When a whole new management of labour and welfare is put at the disposal of the country's population and 16 000 employees are to be given a new day of work, this may mean the greatest reform in this area of policy since we have been given the right to vote. In such a comprehensive process of conversion, it is essential that the objectives are maintained and clear at all times. We do this because society needs all available labour, and because the inhabitants of this country want to work. In order to assist, in a much better way, those 700,000 outside the labour market who now have public social benefits as their main income, it does not keep up with today's cadastral mix and forms of cooperation. These are not adapted to the expectations and needs of users or society. In my view, tearing down organisational walls is a prerequisite for achieving the objective of employing a larger proportion of the population. Not least, it offers far better opportunities to intensify efforts towards people with complex needs, mental disorders, disabilities and those who are initially far from the labour market. The new labour and welfare management will also provide a much better basis for rapid clarification and follow-up of those who are unable to work. I get too many letters from frustrated fellow people who experience themselves as throwing balls between public offices. Too often I meet engaged public servants who want to contribute, but who feel that the system gives little freedom to meet the individual according to the specific situation he or she is in. Too often I hear about how some people are parked on a social benefit. They are locked in a passive performance – they do not move on in the system towards activity and work. This testifies to a work and welfare management that is fragmented and organised across the needs of many users. This testifies to a system of limited possibilities for making an overall offer, where proper action is put in place in a timely manner. And it testifies to a sector that, as a whole, prevents many users from taking active part and from taking control of their own lives. This is what requires new grips. This is why we are now making it possible for the needs of the individual user to better manage what measures are being given, and not what offers are currently available to each unit. Today’s organisation limits the possibility of taking proper action in a timely manner and limits the possibility of full user-responsive action. Both government and magnification are quite clear that coordination and coordination should not be the user's challenge, but rather a matter for those to provide assistance. The competence of employees will be the key to meeting users in a good way, together with the user finding good solutions on the way to work. In the United Kingdom, the initial success was not entirely due to the lack of emphasis on skills development. I am therefore pleased that the Committee emphasises this precisely. Feedback from employee organisations has also been central to the reform process. I would like to emphasise that cooperation with the social organisations is an important basis for further work, not least in order to provide the necessary security for employees throughout the process. A new labour and welfare management is part of the Government's overall strategy for a more inclusive society and working life. Other important elements of this strategy are: cooperation with social partners on a more inclusive labour market proposal for a new labour-environment bill on new labour-market legislationThe Government's action against poverty proposals on pension reform further development of social benefits and measures as instruments of labour and welfare policy This means that although we now have a comprehensive organisational reform of the administration, there are still many pieces to be put in place before all the objectives can be said to be achieved. Finally, let me point to a central aspect of the reform that will be important to maintain in the forthcoming implementation. The reform assumes that local ownership of the solutions is crucial for success. The Norwegian municipal structure and various local conditions mean that the concrete solutions must vary. To this end, local action rooms are provided in several areas, including: by enabling the State and local authority to carry out tasks for each other to a certain extent and by opening up inter-municipal solutions. We have had a very good cooperation with the KS on the implementation of this. Now is the time for investigation. It's time for implementation. As part of the implementation of the reform, an interim organisation will be set up, and the Stortinget will be invited to decide on the proposal for necessary legislative changes, so that the formal establishment of a new common government agency can take place from the second half of 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e398	As the Council of State said, there is a major organisational change we are facing – the association of two institutions with different competences, both of which are to be continued, while building a common culture. It's not an easy problem. The Interim Organisation will be essential for and clearly premise for the future organisation. As we see it, it will therefore be absolutely essential that employees' organisations, both in social security and in Aetat, have a central place in the Interim Organisation. The question I would like to ask the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure the participation of employees' organisations in the interim organisation and in the further conversion process?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e405	As I said in my post, the employees and their competence are key to the success of this reform. Therefore, the cooperation, interaction and involvement of employees and their organisations is crucial to achieve this. This has been emphasised in the course of the reform process, and we will do so in the operational and practical implementation work we are now facing. Employees currently have their participation channels into the two state budgets in the ordinary way. It will of course be an important channel. Once the Interim Organisation is formally established, participation at this common level will also be implemented. A conversion agreement will be concluded between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the employees’ organisations that will form the platform for safe and sound en route involvement in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e412	Based on the end of the Minister of Health posts where the municipal structure came up, my question to the Minister of Health is: how should this coordination, co-location, be practically resolved in municipalities where the population is very low? I have understood this so that intermunicipal cooperation can also be discussed here. Would it mean that it could be risked for the very smallest municipalities, which today have social offices, to cooperate with one or more neighbouring municipalities, or would you at least keep the social office in each municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e417	I assume that Mr. Alvheim's question is addressed to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. At least I'll answer in that capacity. What is stated in the proposal is that there should be a labour and welfare office in each municipality and that such a labour and welfare office should be a gateway to the whole range of services that the employment and welfare management will have. Then, in the proposition, it's set to open up so that the state and the municipality can in some cases carry out tasks for each other to a limited extent. It has been suggested that where it is found locally to be the best solution, it can also be based on inter-municipal cooperation. But in any case, there will be tasks in the municipal social service that are not initially part of a social welfare administration, for which the municipalities are responsible under the social services law. That service will need to be provided by the municipality, irrespective of inter-municipal cooperation in the management of labour and welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e424	First, it is interesting to note that the SV and the Central Party today propose to implement an important part of the Sem declaration that the government parties wish to vote against. So to something completely different. A comprehensive committee stresses that the first line of the new management of labour and welfare must have a broad and complex competence in all municipalities. I have recently received worried messages from several people who say that in the two state agencies that are now to be merged and decentralised, there is now a centralisation of a number of tasks just ahead of the reform. Is the Council of State familiar with this? And will he ensure that processes are not initiated or continued in social security or Aetat that go across the goals of the Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e431	It is a striking feature of the debate that the SV and the Central Party have been committed to implementing the Sem declaration. I have to point out, for my part, that the Government's proposal on the use of individual plans and to attach individual plans to specific terms in the form of a user contract in our opinion is a loyal follow-up to the Sem declaration. I guess we're more like government parties to interpret it than what the Center Party and SV are. To the question of centralisation of tasks and whether there is an organisational change in the levels in contravention of reform intentions: it is not known to the Council of State. On the contrary, it is my opinion that the levels of this situation, before the decision of the Storting, have been very loyal to the fact that one is in an interim period in which one cannot implement what the Government has proposed, nor do other things, but ensure that the floors are operated in the usual way. That's my absolute impression that you're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e438	I can assure the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that I do not need to charm the Government by interpreting the Sem Declaration to make proposals in the Stortinget. The proposal that goes on guaranteed minimum income is a proposal that has a great deal of background in Bondevik I, when the Central Party had the Minister of Social Affairs. But it gets a little special when one of the government parties goes to the pulpit and reminds me that a proposal promoted by SV and the Central Party is in line with the Sem declaration. I can't see why the government parties can't vote for this proposal. It should be a vote for what you are for, and against what you are against. Then it's quite clear that we're still leaving the invitation open so that one can go for that proposal. So a little bit different. There is considerable uncertainty about the financial costs of the reorganisation. In a comment by the majority of the Committee, all except the government parties, we ask that account be taken of the local economy as well. Will the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs make sure that this happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e446	I do not know whether we should continue the debate on the Sem declaration and what it involves. But just let me say that what it says is you're going to work on an investigation into the question of guaranteed minimum income. In this proposition, we have proposed a practical follow-up to this by linking specific conditions and, where appropriate, benefits in the form of a citizen's contract to the system of an individual plan. The majority have agreed to that. It is crucial for the implementation of this reform that we get a good interaction with the municipalities. I would like to say that the cooperation with the Local Governments' Central Association on implementation has been exemplary. Although they initially had a different vision, KS has actively contributed to the design of the solutions we have proposed, and I believe that we should also get to the interaction with the municipalities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e453	As many people have been involved in the debate so far, many people live through social security, and need economic social assistance as well. I often meet individuals who feel that they are being pushed into an unworthy game between the state and the municipality. I've met many people who, in the context of the reform we are about to adopt today, have said that this game where individuals who were really going to live on social security are being pushed into economic social assistance in order to get an acceptable income level, is a game in which the reform we are adopting today is not going to be able to rectify. That is a criticism I often face. And my question to the Council of State is simply: what is the Council of State's answer to such criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e458	Let me first say to what is behind this issue, and which has also been mentioned earlier in the debate, that the assumption that changes in general welfare schemes implemented during this period should have led to more people having to ask for economic social assistance in addition to their social security benefits is unlikely to be covered. Preliminary figures for the development of economic social assistance show that the number of social assistance clients has decreased. But to the extent that it was going to be the type of game that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen pointed to, I certainly believe that a system that involves the user coming into one place, meeting a coordinated device, encounters an apparatus that is not only responsible for its arrangements, but is responsible for providing a whole for the user entering the door, will be a system that is far better suited to both revealing and counteracting this kind of unfortunate outcome, which we both agree on should be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e463	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e466	I will continue in my post a little bit in the track I was inside in my reply to the Council of State. For the reorganisation that we are adopting today, and for which the Labour Party and I will vote, there is, in my view, a clear sore point for many others: how do we in practice coordinate the work between the new State and municipal social services in relation to the economic social assistance for which the municipalities are still to be responsible? Of course, I fully agree that we are going in the right direction. We're going to have one door, we're going to have one joint office, we're going to have case handlers working together in the same environment, who hopefully get a lot of authority from each other. We will have case handlers who strive to work across the board. But the challenge will be: despite all this, the new employment and welfare offices will have two owners, there will be two budgets, there will be two systems, and there will be several different laws. I am not going to go into a debate with the Council of State here today about whether there has become more or less insured persons who need to supplement the social security with economic social assistance in order to make the economic everyday life work together. But at least it is a fact that many insured persons are in the situation that social security does not extend to. And to make the economic everyday life work together, you have to go to the social office to get economic social assistance in order to be able to live at an acceptable income level. It was said, very clearly, that in this situation we come into the situation that the state responsibility for ensuring e.g.. the existence of a decent level of income, for many people in practice have to be met by the municipality, that this is a situation in which the State can live with low benefits, because the municipality acts as the State's safety net through economic social assistance, and that this is a main argument for the governmentisation of economic social assistance. I have to say for myself and on behalf of my party that we have discussed this issue quite thoroughly. We have too much sense of that reasoning, namely that this system does not have a uniform responsibility for minimum economic security. But in the Labour Party today, we will not propose proposals that are about us now also taking the step that we should state economic social assistance. And why don't we, when we say at the same time that we have too much sense of criticism of the proposal being promoted? Well, the reason why we think it's very important that we now take one step at a time. As many have been in the debate, we are taking a long step in the right direction today. Through today's decision, we are now going to carry out a gigantic reorganisation of labour and welfare management. As others have been involved, all the municipalities in the country will be affected. It will be very difficult to get this in place. I think one of the most dangerous things we can do now is underestimate the scope of the reform we are going to implement. It is not obvious that this project will succeed. There's a lot of work to do. Several have been concerned, different cultures need to merge, instruments need to be changed, in the field of competence needs to be developed. It is not natural for us to succeed, and to assure ourselves as far as possible that we will succeed, it is important that when we adopt such a major and comprehensive reform, we do not go too far. That's why it's right to go here now, it's right to stop there, and then it's important, when the new administration comes in, to get experience. Law, legislation and instruments need to be adapted, we need to evaluate, and then it will give us the basis to move forward, if we find it necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e477	Work and participation in society are the very basis for well-being. Having a job to do gives individuals the opportunity to use their abilities and opportunities for development, navigability and social community. The new labour and welfare reform is historic, and for the Right and Government, the aim of the reform is to put an end to the well-known public-government gambling problem. Today's organisation of the labour market, social security and social services contributes to the exclusion of too many people from the labour market. Coordination shall contribute to the provision of a more user-friendly service to those currently living in social security. A wide range of qualification and back-up measures shall be provided, adapted to the needs of the individual. 700000 persons of working age are currently totally or partly out of work and have public social benefits as their main income. For the Right and the Government, it is important that the investment in labour and welfare policies is linked to an inclusive working life, poverty reduction, the integration of immigrants and the reactivation of the underprivileged. It is therefore with surprise that I note that the majority of the Committee, all parties outside the government parties, bring forward the following user groups as an example of non-job-seekers: ‘persons with drug problems, people with social and mental problems, immigrants/refugees and people with mental retardation’. On the contrary, for government parties, there will be a quality mark for the reform of persons belonging to these groups to be able to use their work skills in society. We believe it is important that the individual who wants and can do so be given the opportunity to work. On the other hand, people who cannot be returned to work must be guaranteed financial security and, if possible, included in other activities. The government's goal of increasing employment requires a forward-looking industrial policy, a well-adapted labour market, welfare systems that promote activity, and follow-up adapted to the individual. In order to make it easier for beneficiaries to apply to work, education or training measures, social security and our tax system need to stimulate work as much as possible. We in the Right believe that both public and private employers have a great responsibility to counter exclusion from the labour market and to facilitate the creation and maintenance of jobs for people with disabilities. In order to assist jobseekers and people in the process of falling out of work, it is important that the employment rate is in good contact with employers. At the same time, it is important to organise schemes to stimulate enterprises to take workers with disabilities. Such cooperation is a prerequisite for creating a well-functioning labour market and a more inclusive working life for the most part. Work on prevention of sick leave and disability is demanding and important. There has been a strong growth in disease-related social benefits in recent years, but the increase in sick leave has stopped in 2004 and has now fallen sharply. It is important that the new labour and welfare manager further develop close contact with the employer, both in order to address the needs of the labour market and to exploit the enterprises as an effective learning and development area. A first line service is now established for the full range of services in the management of labour and welfare. The first line service shall be based on committed cooperation between the State and the municipality within the framework of local cooperation agreements. Coordination shall facilitate the return of more people to work and no longer feel socially excluded. A labour and welfare office in each municipality shall take care of and see the entire human being. Help must be quickly and individually adapted. Co-ordination of the facilities is an important step towards ending the issue of wasteball. Less on social welfare and more on active employment also mean fewer poor people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e504	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e507	This is an enormously large case, which is worth approximately 16 000 added and 2 million users, and which has an economic framework of over 250 billion dollars. With the recommendation that the Labour Party has agreed to, it is now an important challenge to set up a new establishment with a clear device for and focus on the labour market. The taskbar must be focus No. one, for work itself is the foundation of a qualitatively good life for the individual. When it comes to the economy, I think I have to admit that there can be a lot of uncertain economic estimates in the proposition. Only the ICT area becomes very vulnerable in such a reform. We have some experience for it from a long time ago. Now it is only two years since Aetat set up a new computer system that had a cost framework of approx. 700 million. kr. One can only hope and believe that this was not lost, and that one with a simple grip can implement this system in the new, big, state. So the new level is going to be three times larger than today's Aetat. These tasks will be numerous and enormous, and rapid conversion can be a major challenge. For there is something that is absolutely necessary in today's working life, it is to make rapid and smooth adjustments. I fear that the Storting will have far less scope to manage labour market policy through economic policy after we have a new, major welfare reform in place. Afterwards, the promises, as I see it, will go to a collective, great welfare management. I hope that I am mistaken in my assessments in this area. So the working party supports the whole heart of the reform, but the job is not done by making decisions today. A call for everyone must now focus on putting the reform into practice in a sensible and good way – where different cultures will merge into a good working environment and work well together in the future. In this work, it is important to work closely with their organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e522	The organisation of auxiliaries is important as part of helping people who rely on relief measures to get to work or to manage themselves financially get the help they depend on. For many years SV has called for social action, the labour market seat and social security system to be seen as a common public body, and has worked on this as a goal. That is why we are pleased to take one step on the right track by making decisions today that bring together the social security system and the labour market system into a common public establishment. I registered the considerations in Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's articles, which I very much agree with. If you'd gone further today by also making social affairs state-owned, I also think it could have been so big a change at once that you could have had significant problems. At the same time, it is important to see the welfare benefits paid together. And there's a lot of money we're talking about. Sick pay now amounts to NOK 27 billion, the daily allowance approx. 10 billion kroner and social assistance approx. 5 billion kroner – 42 billion dollars in total, about that. Unearned pay alone represents about the same amount. So if you take rehabilitation money and return money, we're talking about public benefits in the order of nearly NOK 100 billion. It must be thoughtful for any party that many of these benefits are benefits that contribute to keeping people out of a labour market, helping people to experience not being involved in a society where values are to be created. It's also thought-provoking to how little we've managed to create systems that help make the individual independent of help. For example, it is worrying that the treatment of the sick and those who are dependent on social welfare is so different. In many ways you can talk about some people being put in a situation where they are socially deprived, but where you are completely lacking the aid to get them out of this situation. I'm thinking about the reciprocating device. Paradoxically, many people receive benefits as social welfare recipients longer than you do when you are in a situation where you would have to be disabled in many ways. And one was to be a short-term performance and the other a long-term performance. This is why it is important not only to look at the organisation of the agencies as such but also to link them to the benefits they are paying today, to see how they can be turned from passive reception to active action. This could be one important step on the way. But it's about both the will and the ability to do something about the real content for the individual to make the situation better, not just about what's on the door you're going to go through to get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e537	The issue we are now dealing with is extremely important, especially because it forms the basis for the society that we are now going to develop further, and that is to ensure that people are helped to a greater extent than has been the case today, so that we can see the whole instrument in the context. I have to say that it is a little strange to listen to this debate, seen in the light of what was said the last time we had a similar case, the so-called SATS message, to be dealt with in this room, and where the majority in the Innst. S. No 189 for 2002-2003 had the following comment: ‘The majority indicate that it wants an investigation into how we can establish a single establishment, a welfare office, where the whole instrument of the labour market, social security and social work office is used in proceedings against the individual user of the service.’ The majority then put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asked for different models of one common welfareset consisting of today’s Aetat, Social Security and Social Action.’ The surprising thing is not that the government has promoted the matter it has, for they have expressed their views in this ladder all the time. The surprising thing is that the majority that was formed in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 14 for the 2002-2003, SATS Communication, has split up, and that the Progress Party is now alone in proposing a single establishment. But I also have to say that the post that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen held here on this pulpit a moment ago, I can in every way join, because it was just a line of argument as to why it should have been one joint establishment, and that you shouldn't have broken it up. What I fear is that in the future we will see that we have to go a few rounds. [[Nesvik]] You're going to come back -- I'm convinced of that -- as well as integrating social action into this, because what we're getting now is a halfway solution. Although it's a step in the right direction, we're still just halfway because the tool that social action has is not involved. It is then important to refer to what is stated in the proposition, namely the following: «The Government proposes that the mandatory minimum obligation be the co-location of the State representation in the municipality and the municipality's administrative apparatus for the management of social economic assistance.» You don't want to legislate for it to be co-located, either, because it says the same place: «The Government does not consider it appropriate to make the conclusion of cooperation agreements between the State budget and the Municipality...» And if that is the case, it's going to be exciting to see how this will be solved in the individual municipalities, because it's quite obvious that they're located differently today. The vast majority of social services are located in town halls. The town halls may have exploded capacity initially, and it's going to be exciting to see how this is going to be solved. But I expect it to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e574	The government has done what the Storting has asked for, namely to address the issue of different solutions, including: the question of a single establishment. The public investigation has been sent to the Stortinget as an annex to the proposition put forward by the Government, where the Government has given its assessment of the investigation, and where the Government's proposal is supported. I note that a broad majority, even after the debate has been held, is in line with the proposal that the Government has made. So in the debate, there has been some focus on: What about the relationship with the municipal social service? Let me then state that in the Government’s proposal there is a legalisation of a common labour and welfare office – one common front towards the user. It is not possible for either municipalities or states to escape. What we have not proposed to legislate is a detailed design of a cooperation agreement, because it believes that we can be allowed in an agreement of intent between the Government and the KS, and we have agreed to it. But I am convinced that through the combination of lawmaking and cooperation agreements, we will find a good practical solution, where in each municipality it becomes a gateway to this important establishment. And then, of course, it will be necessary, as several representatives have been involved, to gain experience and to evaluate, but I fully agree with those who have said that this is a major reform. It is more than large enough, and it has more than enough ambition in relation to the goals we are going to achieve, which is, of course, the most important thing: to secure more people in work, less on social benefits, and to ensure a more holistic and user-friendly solution for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e589	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fotation, see page 2519]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e605	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e612	The background of this setting is a Document No. Eight proposals by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on a waiting guarantee for children and young people who are mentally ill. This is a problem that has been dealt with in Stortinget on several occasions. I show you, among other things: to a private proposal by May Hansen, as well as another private proposal by Åslaug Haga, formerly during this ageing period, both of which covered the treatment guarantee for young people with mental and drug abuse. Also during the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, on the protection of children and young people, a theme was the guarantee of treatment for children and young people. In examining this report, the majority of the Stortinge, all parties other than the government parties, adopted a proposal asking the Government to ‘promote proposals that children and young people with child protection measures should be legally entitled to treatment for drug and psychiatry’. In proposals for amendments to the Patient Rights Act in Ot.prp. No 63 for 2002–03, the Government stated that it did not wish to amend the law as requested by the majority of the population in the treatment of St.meld. No 40 on the protection of children and young people. The government justified this by the fact that prioritisation of specific groups would violate the priority principle of an individual needs assessment set out in the Patient Rights Act and the priority regulation. When examining the changes in the Patient Rights Act, the bulk of the population, all lots except SV and the Center Party, ended up doing so. This is so far what the Storting has previously meant and adopted on this issue. The Social Committee has also, at this time, been divided into a majority and a minority, as indicated in its opinion. The majority, consisting of government parties, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, would like to assess whether the introduction of a waiting guarantee could be an appropriate tool to reduce the waiting time for psychiatric treatment for children and young people. This majority asks the Government to reconsider the question of waiting time guarantee in the light of the priority regulation. So such an assessment was made by the Government in connection with the changes in the patient rights law, as I have already had, and concluded that it would be contrary to this regulation, which is the same as the majority of people asking for a new assessment at the time. The minority, consisting of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, clearly shows that the situation for children and young people who wait for months and perhaps years for the treatment of some severe mental disorders is so serious that it is necessary to introduce a separate waiting period guarantee for the treatment of both mental and drug abuse for children and young people under 18. These parties propose this and also say in their comments that waiting time should not exceed four to six weeks. When the minority also includes the treatment of drug problems in its proposal, it is both based on the fact that the waiting time for this patient group is also unacceptable and that the number of double diagnoses is high and appears to be increasing. The minority is aware that a waiting guarantee alone will not be enough to solve the difficult situation for children and young people with mental and drug problems, as also emerged in the Committee hearings. The minority – SV and the Centre – therefore strongly emphasise the need for a significant increase in the resources and competences of child and youth psychiatry. These two instruments, both waiting time guarantee and skills and resource increase, can, as the minority sees, contribute together to a clear improvement in the serious situation. There is much evidence that the deadlines currently set for treatment are more determined on the basis of the capacity of the treatment device than on the basis of the severity of the condition, as required by the Patient Rights Act. The majority ask the Government to assess whether the capacity of mental health protection for children and young people is sufficient. In the opinion of the minority, it's clear that it's not. The majority indicate that the objective of the Mental Health Escalation Plan is to provide help for 5 pst. by the children and young people, and considers that this objective is within reach. On the part of the minority, I will probably say that the most important thing is that those children and young people who actually need help and treatment get it, whether it's now going to be three, five, seven or another percentage of the young people, and that the treatment capacity must be first and foremost dimensioned according to the real existing need. Finally, if the minority proposal does not get a majority, the SV – and, as I understand it, the Central Party – will vote subsidiaryly in favour of the majority proposal. I then take up the minority proposal from SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e642	The representative Sigbjørn Molvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e645	We're approaching the end of this great period, and I've had the pleasure of being a member of the social committee for four years. It's been interesting. But some of the things that have made me the most despair have been that we haven't been able to make a better arrangement for child and youth psychiatry, and that we are still experiencing failure in it. The whole political environment has had ambitions that we should do things better, and that's not, of course, that nothing has happened in four years. Very well has happened. But still, it is a fact that very many children and young people who need services from child and youth psychiatry do not get it. And I'm going to think that one of the most unworthy things about Norwegian health care is that young people with these kinds of challenges don't get the help they need. For a while back, I had the opportunity to join, like a fly on the wall, at an admission meeting at a children's and youth psychiatric ward in a hospital here in Norway. It is one of the strongest experiences I have had, where I was confronted with children and young people with a very demanding destiny. And I feel a very strong commitment, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the Workers' Party, that we have to do something. But then our challenge is that when we start to discuss with the same professionals what to do, the advice cracks in every direction. One can discuss with them whether there is a need for stronger legal instruments, is there a need to strengthen the waiting time guarantee? Is that the crowbar we can use to get what we want? Yes, many say. But then you can turn around and find strong professional objections to stronger legal obligations because many think it will work against their purpose. When we are unable to comply with the law we have today, it will only make the situation even worse to strengthen the legal basis of rights. So many people say there's a lack of financial resources. In the next turn, the same professional environments would say that no, it's not about lack of financial resources, it's about lack of professionals. But you can't afford to go to child and youth psychiatrists, you have to train them, and it takes time. So many people say no, there's no shortage of professionals, but there's a shortage of professionals who use their time. They're probably professionals, but they spend their time on anything but treating children and young people with mental disorders. So many people say that yes, there is a lack of guidelines for best practice, because in the next round we saw professionals who say that there is one area where it is not possible to develop guidelines for best practice, it is in children's and young people's psychiatry. And that's how time goes. I feel that the political environment is being paralysed. That is why I and the Labour Party have put forward a proposal that we should get a case to the Stortinget with a comprehensive review of child and youth psychiatry. That matter must set very clear objectives. What kind of child and youth psychiatry is what we want? What do we have to do to achieve our goals? How are we going to do that? What's the cost? What rights should we grant to children and young people with mental disorders? When are we going to put that in place? If establishing stronger legal rights is an appropriate instrument, the Workers' Party is ready to do so. But if it is that these objectives can best be achieved by means other than reinforced legal instruments, we are, of course, all right. But now we have to bring forward a case for the Storting, where there can be no doubt that the Storting is now being action-oriented, in order to clean up child and youth psychiatry, so that we do not experience that we will have a similar debate in four years' time – when you are about to end a new ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e660	It is positive that more and more children and young people in the field of mental health protection are receiving treatment. The number of children and young people admitted to treatment increased from 4,428 in the third tertiary in 2003 to 5,418 in the third tertiary in 2004, corresponding to an increase of 22 pst. In the Roadmap for Mental Health, the aim is to provide help for 5 pst. by the children and young people, and this objective is clear within reach. At the same time, the number of children and young people seeking help is increasing. The waiting time is often very long and more people are waiting for treatment. I agree with the rapporteur that it is worrying because it imposes unnecessary burdens on patients and on relatives. There is also a need to address serious supervisory reports that reveal that patients’ rights already introduced are not being properly monitored. More references and increases in waiting lists in the field of mental health protection for children and young people are a challenge, but at the same time an expression that we are able to provide more than one offer. It is important that we meet challenges with offensive instruments, because contributing to a good mental health for children and young people is the most future-oriented investment one can imagine. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health and Welfare in the 2005 management plan has clearly informed regional health businesses that the percentage growth in mental health protection should be stronger than in somatic settings. This is a clear signal that this field should also be given priority in the allocation of ordinary budgetary resources in the specialist health service. I have also noticed that the Government of the Strategy Plan for the Mental Health of Children and Young People has set a target of reducing the waiting time for an assessment interview to 10 days during the escalation period. The right starting point for this debate is that we need to be open to testing all available tools to improve the quality of the supply provided in the field of mental health protection for children and young people. That is why we support the proposal of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to ask the Government to present a case assessing whether a waiting guarantee for the treatment of mentally ill children and young people can be an appropriate tool to reduce waiting time. However, there is no reason to hide that professional objections to the introduction of a waiting guarantee have been raised during the hearings. Both the Children’s and the Paediatric Ombudsman College Association clearly stated that the introduction of a new guarantee is not the right answer to the challenges facing children’s and young people’s psychiatry. Both believed that the rights that already exist in the Patient Rights Act are good enough, and that the challenge is first and foremost to ensure that today's rights are met. Questions have also been asked whether a standardised waiting-time guarantee will meet the needs of children and young people for assistance more quickly than the standardised guarantee provides. And further, there is reason to consider whether waiting time guarantees for certain patient groups may mean that these will be prioritised over other patients who may have very serious disease conditions. Despite the objections raised, the Right, as I said, is prepared to consider this issue with an open mind, in the light of the considerations the Government is now going to present to the Stortinget. In any case, there must be no doubt that we want to keep a strong focus on creating the best possible offer for children and young people with mental disorders, so that the goal of the escalation plan can be achieved both in terms of quantity and not least in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e681	Children’s and youth psychiatry — and psychiatry in general — we have discussed an innumerable number of times in this room, both in this period and in the previous period. It is quite clear that the challenges are also pending within this area. In fact, I will give tribute to the Minister of Health and Welfare in this matter. Because there's one area he's been on, and at least that's what priority of psychiatry has to do, that piece really has to be put on the agenda. But from being ready to take action that can help individual patients, it's a way to go. The government apparatus and the size must take into account the means to be used to achieve targets. And we're not in the goal. We are far from the goal of this group. What was significant in the hearings on this matter was that the organisations of the relatives actually warned against introducing this type of waiting guarantee. You have to listen to the recordings you get from that field. We're going to take inward the warnings we got related to this particular guarantee, because the fear that it itself can be a sleeping cushion, is also real. These things we're going to take inwards. That's why what the majority is doing is important. We ask the Government to assess these things, and we ask it to present as soon as possible a matter of waiting time guarantee for the treatment of mentally ill children and young people. We can then discuss all aspects of this matter, instead of making a decision today on a waiting guarantee without content. That's the content of this, what we're going to put in it, and what we want to get into the other end, which is the most important thing to get these things into place. I think it's important that we get the whole and wide review. I hope that at least in the next growing-up period, and as soon as possible in it, we will have a good offer in childhood and youth psychiatry that we can say, "Now we're on the right track." Now we're going to be able to solve some of the big problems that are, and then we're going to go on and see how we're going to finally get into the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e692	Today's waiting times in childhood and youth psychiatry are very long. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned about this, as other speakers have been in this debate. Although more children and young people are currently being treated than ever before, the number of children and young people seeking treatment increases, which in the next round also affects waiting times. The current situation, with an average waiting time of about 70 days, is unsustainable. Children and adolescents should not be in line for months on end for the treatment they need. This only results in longer waiting times, giving extra taxes to the individual and to the dependants. The situation in psychiatry has been discussed over and over again in this room, by 14 April at the latest, when this issue was also discussed. The escalating plan suggests that 5 pst. of the children’s and young children’s children’s children’s children’s children’s children’s children’s children’s This is a goal that I think you'll now. The Government Strategy Plan suggests that no one should have more than 10 days waiting for an assessment interview in the paediatric psychiatry. It has also been suggested that the waiting times for outpatient treatment should be reduced by at least 20 pst. in the current year. There are so many positive moves. Today’s government has lifted this field, and in the statement by the Minister of Health and Health on 11 April, several instruments were promoted and underlined. Unfortunately, it is a fact that it is a long way to go before children and young people get the help they need. Patient law requires a deadline to be set for a patient to receive the necessary health care at the latest. This shall be done with a background in an individual and medical assessment. What is perhaps the strongest brake on the actual implementation of the individual plan today is that the professional environment does not follow up on the dishes that already exist. That's why we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, are concerned that one has to clean up the contents of the professional environment and expand the capacity of the treatment apparatus and in the interaction between the levels. It is worrying when the patient environment Petter Holm in the hearing in the committee pointed out that there are very many patients who cannot develop an individual plan, such as one has a claim, and that they thus get little coordinated services. It is unacceptable that patients are not allowed to comply with their statutory patient rights. It is absolutely crucial that the scientific community takes on board the demands of the political environment. The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, went through and described some of the dilemmas facing the choice of instruments in psychiatry. I don't see any reason to dwell on this, but it's like this proposal, like with the other, that there will always be someone who is in favour, and someone who will be against. The Christian People's Party is willing to turn on all the stones to reduce the waiting times for children and young people in psychiatry. That is why we also support the proposal by Mr Hanssen's representative in Document No. 8:68 on standardised waiting time guarantees if it appears that there is an appropriate means of reducing waiting times. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this is also seen in the context of the priority rule and in the light of existing legal rights. The important thing for the Christian People's Party is that the waiting times are reduced. And then you'll see what kind of tool they're right at any given time. The important thing is that children and young people stay in line for a long time, which will only give them extra, serious taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e714	The rapporteur, Mr Molvik, gave a thorough account of both majority and minority formations in the position. That's why I'm not going to go through it so thoroughly, but just show that the Central Party and SV are the minority here. We believe that there should be a stronger focus on this problem than what the majority put up to. The majority also assesses a guarantee, but it will take longer to assess it again. We don't have time for that now if this is going to fit more than what it's been and what it is. We agree with the author of the proposal, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, that there must be a stronger search for this, and that it must be a greater will for priority to be given to correcting the situation. In the escalation plan for mental health, the aim is to provide help for 5 pst. by the children and youth population. What we see is that these old measurements are not good enough. There must be other and more ambitious goals if you are to meet the problems that arise here. Long waiting, frustration and thus the development of the disease image make it even more expensive and difficult to deal with these things, when it has been so long, with the consequence that this is unworthy both for the individual patient and for their closest. In this position, when we also propose that there should be a waiting period guarantee for the treatment of mental and drug abuse for children and adolescents under 18, it is based on the fact that one has the same situation in the care of drug users with very long waiting periods, and that it is also such that drug abuse and mental health are often linked. These so-called double diagnostics are some of what you should address very quickly. It's not happening today. We are aware that in the consultation round on this matter, those who were there said that a guarantee is not enough, both the organization Adults for Children and the College of Patient Ombudsman. We agree. It's not enough just to set up a guarantee that increases expectations, and next time the frustrations increase because you can't meet your expectations. It is important then that the main focus is on what is in a conscious escalation in psychiatry, mental health and drug care. The Minister of Health has recently been very commendable about this, so far, but we have not yet succeeded in the escalation plan for mental health that has been in force for many years. It's a matter of resources. But as the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was involved, there are different signals from the professional community and also from the user environment about how these resources are used and suitable. I believe that it is undisputed that greater resources are needed, and that has been the focus of the Senter Party in budgetary proceedings in recent years. In both specialist and primary health care, we have tried to give more priority to psychiatry in general, and especially to childhood and youth psychiatry. It's also shown in the setting just what the Socialist Left Party has done in several contexts there. I guess it should have been "these parties" to make the setting correct. Money is one thing, but then there are questions as to whether the professional resources are good enough. It could put some question marks on it. The Minister of Health addressed this in relation to management, structure and interaction. I think it's very important that we make better use of the resources, and that there are guidelines and plans that clearly set out some of the priorities that we at the Stortinget believe are necessary, and that also everyday shows are absolutely necessary. In this context, I believe that the signals from the Minister of Health have been good in recent times. It is important that he ensures that the guidelines are clear and unambiguous and that management is clear and unambiguous. In the last round, it is the Minister of Health and Welfare who represents that management.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e729	It is clear from the opinion that there is complete agreement in the Committee on the simple fact that there is a long waiting time for the treatment of children and young people with mental problems, and I have no problem agreeing to say that there is too long a waiting time. I have also stated this, both in the debate we had in connection with the presentation in Stortinget, and also in the debate on the state budget for the current year. The main measure to reduce this waiting time for treatment is primarily the general effort we make through the Roadmap for Mental Health. At the same time as we've had the escalation plan, we have a situation where the number of children and young people treated in mental health protection has increased dramatically, by a total of 60 pst. for a period of five years from 1998 to 2003. There will, of course, be up-to-date figures for this in the budget coming to the harvest. The increase refers partly to increased resources and partly to increased service productivity. The report for 2003 shows that regional health businesses gave a clear priority to children and young people this year. According to the opinion of SINTEF, the target is 5 pst. national coverage in 2008 within reach. But as pointed out by some of the speakers here, the measure we set at that time was in 1997. It's clear that here it's about moving measures, depending on what happens. It has, among other things, has led to a correction of this figure of 5 pst in the Health East. For the health of the East, they have said that it should be 5.5 pst., so that they are better able to deal with additional challenges in the capital area. For children and young people, the use of specialist health services in the field of mental health protection consists mainly of outpatient interventions. 95 pst. patients receive outpatient care, with only 5 pst. which is inserted. Outpatient capacity has increased by more than 400 trade unions between 1998 and 2003 and at national level is now receiving 3.1pst. of those under 18 years of age, a treatment offer. So the measure is going to be 5 pst. Several treatment years have increased the availability of the service. The increase in the number of measures per year. On the other hand, trade unions have not had a similar effect. It has primarily led to an average number of interventions for each patient. We are committed to achieving important objectives in the escalation plan, in line with the Storting's intentions. The reason why this has so far not been clear for a reduced waiting time is that the number of references has increased almost as much as the increase in capacity. However, we must be able to assume that this will work gradually, and that one will gradually achieve the goal of 5 pst. At the start of the escalation plan, we assumed that there was a significant under-use of services for children and young people. There is reason to believe that the increased demand for services is an expression that we are in the process of reducing this under-consumption. Although increased demand for services alone can be said to be positive, the problem, as the Committee points out, is that waiting time is still too long. The main limiting factor for a rapid reduction in waiting time is hardly increased resources, but mainly the availability of qualified personnel, especially psychiatrists and psychologists. There is also a positive development here, but we have to recognize that the training of specialists takes time. Supervision reports reveal a lack of respect for patients’ rights already in place. I have noticed that the Health and Social Ombudsman in Oslo and the Children’s Adult Organization have stated that this is a central problem for children and young people with mental illness. I have therefore given clear indications to the health company about what is quite natural, namely that Norwegian law should also be respected in this area. In view of this, however, there is also a need to further assess whether new legal guarantees are an appropriate means of reducing waiting time. I stress that I agree with the Committee's assessment of the need for faster assistance for children and young people. I have mentioned here some factors that are important in order to be able to shorten the waiting time. In my opinion, whether it is right to introduce new legal instruments to speed up waiting time is also a little dependent on when you do it. When you get a capacity that is sufficient to handle this on an ongoing basis, it might be more appropriate. On the other hand, we know that putting pressure on such large organizations will have an effect. If we do this through ownership management or through legal instruments, you'll see. We're going to get back to this, but we're going to do the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e751	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e754	Of all the strange Document No. Eight proposals I've been looking at in the last eight years, this might be the most strange thing. If you shave away all rhetoric, the proposal here made by the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is that Stortinget asks the Government to perhaps introduce a waiting guarantee for children and young people. If I were a state councillor, I would have been moved to tears over such a proposal. Imagine being able to lie down in the evening and know that you have an opposition in Stortinget that says, "Can you be so kind as to consider whether you might want to do this?" But if you find out that it's not a trick, of course we should accept it! It should not surprise anyone that the Government is ending it together. I have registered that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has a rhetoric that is based on a lack of psychiatry. He also had a chronicle in the VG on December 14, 2004. I thought that with the background of that chronicle, I would really look at what the Workers' Party itself has done for the psychiatry. It was interesting: Bjarne Håkon Hanssen claims that the government grants too little money to the psychiatry, while he refuses to draw attention to the fact that the Workers' Party in six – I repeat, six – of the last seven years has not suggested more to the psychiatry than to the Government. In one of the years, they even suggested even less. On the two occasions the Labour Party made a compromise with the government on the State budget – in 2000 and 2004 – the comparisons did not amount to one more cent to the psychiatry. So the priority that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is calling for, his own party has never even suggested. The absence of exposure is made visible until the current date. During the Stockholm Summit on the Health Budget for 2005, the Labour Party chose not to promote an alternative proposal to the Government. The party did not take the initiative in the 2005 state budget — no initiative — to increase the allocation of psychiatry. The draft budget presented by the Bondevik Government in 2003 was rightly criticised by a number of professional bodies, including the Council for Mental Health, in order not to follow up the mental health escalation plan as provided for at the time of adoption of the plan. Despite this, the Labour Party did not propose in the budget agreement with the government of Bondevik in the autumn of 2003 a single penny more to the psychiatry than the government itself had originally presented in its draft budget. The Workers' Party, through the government of Stoltenberg, was itself responsible for proposals for the 2001 government budget. SV wanted to prioritize the psychiatry by 100 million. kr more than the Workers' Party provided for that year. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party pushed it through an increase of 70 million. kr – after the Workers' Party had proposed less. I have to say that when you try to present it as if it were a will of the Labour Party for increased investment, there is something symbolic in the whole proposal, because the proposal does not commit in any way. Therefore, it is a pity that the Workers' Party – despite the fact that it has repeatedly proposed a waiting guarantee – implements its reasoning here and votes against it. That's what's real.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e765	It could have been very tempting to go into the kind of debate that our good friends in SV put up here, but I'm going to avoid doing it. One has to use the sense, the one who has it. The point of this proposal is that the objective must be clear, namely that the waiting time within the paediatric psychiatry should be reduced. So we're saying that there's some confusion about what kind of instruments are going to be used to achieve that goal. A stronger legal obligation may be the way forward. If that's the conclusion, we're willing to use it. But it may also be that the path to this goal is to use other instruments in the law. The goal is the most important, not the instrument. That is why we are asking the Government now to bring forward a case in which the path to the goal is clarified. If we think that the necessary tool is the juice, we'll use it. If the necessary tool is not the juice, but other means, we have to use it. I feel quite confident that if we get a good basis for treatment via such a case, we will achieve the goal. I am very aware that it is often not the most important thing for SV, but it is the most important thing for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e774	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3, 4 and 5 are treated together. [[Footage, see page 2520]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e814	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e825	In the VG on Saturday we could read about new numbers from the Statistical Central Bureau that show that 8 pst. of the population of Norway are immigrants. It confirms that Norway is, and will be, more diverse and multicultural in the future. Immigrants come from all over 200 different countries, from all over the world. It has given us all who live here a lot of positive. It has brought us new, exciting shops, restaurants with other food cultures and traditions, and not least necessary labour in many areas. A few years ago, some of us were driving around with a sticker label saying that without the girls stopping Norway. That's still true. But I believe we can add that without the immigrants Norway will also stop. Norwegian society is based on respect for human rights and democratic principles. These are fundamental values and premises for all policies. Everyone living in Norway, regardless of their background, shall have equal rights, obligations and opportunities in all parts of society to use their resources. In practice, this means that different individuals and different groups need different measures and framework conditions in order to claim their rights and fulfil their obligations fully. This is where the policy and the political differences appear. This is the setting for St.meld. No 49 for 2003-2004 on diversity through inclusion and participation is about: Do your duty, demand your right. The Government’s big message describes and discusses the fundamental challenges facing Norway in a multicultural society. It is positive that the Government is submitting a communication to give us the opportunity to discuss integration from an overall perspective. However, all parties, with the exception of the government parties, believe that the notification is too much of a summary of the measures already taken, while being too low in commitment and too little in concrete on the choice of instruments against the future challenges outlined in the notification. In other words, the problem is not what is in the message, but what is not in St.meld. No 49. It is impossible for me as the case rapporteur to go through the whole setting and all the proposals. It is too extensive, and it is too many proposals. Of course, the individual parties will address their own proposals. In particular, the Progress Party points out its 29 proposals, in addition to the proposals they are together with other parties. That's why I choose some areas that I think it's important to focus on. The Labour Party believes that successful integration and inclusion policies are important for the country and for the future of all people living here. Equivalence, solidarity and justice and a good distribution shall be the cornerstone of this policy. Gender equality and the principle of non-discrimination are an important part of our value base. This basis of values is a vital prerequisite for an equivalent society and for the success of the efforts to safeguard the interests of minorities. That is why we believe it right to counter religious fanaticism, gender mutilation, forced marriage and anti-democratic organisations in Norway. We believe that solidarity presupposes that we take responsibility and care about and with each other regardless of ethnic background. Similarly, the entire committee believes that we must not let go of problematic aspects, such as gender discriminatory attitudes, of fear of stamping entire groups. Because what we do then is to show abstinence and abstinence in the case of individuals suffering from injustice and discrimination. Gender mutilation is such a matter. Forced marriage is another. Gender mutilation is prohibited by law in Norway. Still, we know that's happening. This is a serious criminal act against girls, no matter what tradition or culture says about it. Therefore, a majority, consisting of all parties minus the government parties, is asking the Government to investigate the implementation of clinical observation of all children’s genital organs during current health checks and to determine the scope of such controls and whether they should be mandatory. This majority is not only concerned with the detection of injuries but also with the prevention of sexual mutilation. Today, among other things, checks are being carried out. the testicles in boys. There should not be any impossibility or so very different if today's health checks also had routines to check the girls as well. We're not talking about a gynaecological study here, we're talking about a clinical observation. The majority believe that this will have a preventative effect and can help more people to avoid being circumcised. The Labour Party believes it is important that religious leaders master Norwegian and have knowledge of Norwegian social conditions. We will therefore establish a compulsory language and community course for religious leaders to work in Norway. It shall be a requirement to obtain a work permit to undertake to implement such an introduction programme. We refer to Document No. The 8th proposal from the Labour Party. We don't get a majority for that. That's too bad. It is a prerequisite to master Norwegian in order to create a future in Norway. All children born and raised in Norway should be able to speak Norwegian before they start school. Children with a minority language background are strongly underrepresented in kindergartens and spend less time there. Cheap kindergartens will be a tool for recruiting more minority children. Cash support stimulates the opposite and prevents early language development, a language development that is very important to the child. The Workers' Party and SV will establish free core hours in kindergartens for 4- and 5-year-olds in areas with many immigrant children, and promote proposals to that effect. Free core time in kindergarten must be an offer that includes all children living in the area, not just minority children. Because it is in conversation and play with other children that they learn Norwegian. On average, six out of ten students with a migrant background complete secondary education after five years. It's a low number. Unlawful school absences occur, and this is not for the benefit of children. The entire Committee agrees that there must be a balance between the freedom of choice of parents and the future prospects of children. The Committee considers that today's right to education in this country must be accompanied by an obligation to provide the children with the training they require. It is therefore important that children do not spend all or much of their childhood in their original home country if they are to live their adult life in Norway. The Committee considers that child protection must be stopped in the event of illegal long-term absence and that police reporting should be actively used in the absence of education, and suggests it. For the sake of children and for integration reasons that are known, it is best for the child to come to the country as early as possible and to spend large parts of his or her growth here. The introduction programme, which is now mandatory for some, has been working for some time, with several pilot projects since 1998. Fafo has now produced a report showing that those who have implemented the introduction programme are better off and are more likely to work on a regular basis. That's good, and that was the purpose. But large groups continue to fall out of the scheme. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party consider that the Government's decision to reduce the personality of those entitled to the introduction programme is very unfortunate. Many municipalities now take decisions in which they refuse to accept single asylum seekers with the right to family reunification. It's not hard to understand. The costs of the municipalities will be high. And with the poor local economy that is today, this will be at the expense of other tasks that the municipalities consider equally important. We therefore ask the Government to make proposals for extending the personality. We will also reintroduce Norwegian training in asylum recipients for all, except for basic asylum seekers. Work is both a goal and a means. Work actively contributes to society, while work leads to community inclusion. Unemployment among immigrants is higher than in the general population. For many immigrants, the main problem is discrimination on the labour market. Many people experience that they do not get a job, even though they meet the requirements of competence. This is a waste of valuable resources. In cooperation with the public, social partners need to establish father schemes and job placements. We need to work with the business community to find good solutions that give effect and work to the unemployed. We also believe that we need to streamline recognition procedures for education taken abroad, and believe that more immigrants should be given the opportunity to gain real competence. Finally, the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre believe that the main challenge for success in integration policy is that immigrants as a group are raised at all levels: social, political, economic and cultural. Norwegian society is getting a class division on an ethnic basis. It's serious. Large parts of the immigrant population do not participate in the political system. They work in low-paid or out of the labour market. The challenges we face are far-reaching. We believe that in order for everyone to succeed, a more active distribution and education policy is required than the current government is pursuing. Then I would like to address all the proposals that the Labour Party is behind or co-sponsored with, as well as proposal No. 43, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e879	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e884	In Document No: 8:27 for 2004-2005 The Workers' Party proposes an introduction programme for non-residents working in Norway as religious ministers. The Workers' Party wants the obligation to train religious leaders also to apply to Nordic citizens and persons with EEA/EFTA authorisations. This seems strange to me. Can the Workers' Party tell how the Party will deal with this under the EEA Agreement and the principle of the four freedoms?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e891	Our Document No. Eight proposals to ask the Government to look at the possibility of creating a common Nordic programme for religious publishers in Norway and in the other Nordic countries are because this is a narrow field, and we believe that cooperation with other Nordic countries can be a way to go that might make it more interesting. It could also be a much better way to solve this than to create such programmes specifically for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e896	There is one thing I fully agree with the rapporteur, and that is what the rapporteur pointed out when she said that it was equally important what is not actually in the notice. Then my first question to the case rapporteur and the Workers' Party could be: What is not in the message, as the Workers' Party feels they have got into the setting afterwards? I do not see that the Workers' Party has in any way been a driver. My other question is to Mr Øyes' claim that there is widespread discrimination in Norwegian working life. I do not deny that there is discrimination. This applies to ethnic Northmen — young, old, disabled — and probably some immigrants as well. But what I want to challenge the representative Eye in relation to is: Where is there evidence that there is widespread discrimination against immigrants in Norwegian working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e905	What is not in the message that is in the configuration? Well, I would say that there is a lot in the vote in the form of concrete proposals relating to the challenges set out in the communication and to which nothing has been said about the solution. There are many proposals on which the Labour Party is involved and for which we now also have a majority, together with the Progress Party. That the setting does not go much further than the message, I therefore disagree completely. As to whether there is evidence that there is widespread discrimination in Norwegian working life, it is at least known that very many people are not called in for an interview, even if we have not had direct investigations. We also know that people have changed their names, and that they have considered them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e912	In dealing with the case of language training and bilingual vocational training, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were united against the Government's proposal for tightening up the right to language training and bilingual vocational training. The reason for this was that international studies, including by Thomas and Collier, showed that the best way to ensure both serviceability, in this context in Norwegian, and functional bilingualism is by providing native language training at least up to the seventh class stage. It's a prerequisite, or at least a good tool, to learn better Norwegian. In addition, there is a right that we think people should have, and that it will make them functionally bilingual a good resource for society. Once we have brought this up now, the Workers' Party has not been included in the comments. Has the Labour Party reversed its view of language training and bilingual vocational training?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e919	As the representative of Holmås knows, the committee has just been in Canada. There was also the question of mother tongue training, and we became aware that it was not given mother tongue training as a tool for learning English. When the Workers' Party has chosen not to attend those comments, it is because we have not wanted to prioritize it in this round. If we have turned around or not, we will get back to when we get a current case where this question comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e927	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e930	Many concepts are used in the field of immigration policy, and I'm going to admit that sometimes it may seem a little confusing. In St.meld. No It is important to note that the Communication does not focus on different introduction and integration measures for new immigrants. The perspective of the notification has been broadened. Today’s societal changes have consequences for far more than Norwegian education, qualification measures and social inclusion measures for newcomers. The new challenges concern everyone in society: new immigrants, established immigrants, their children and, above all, the rest of the population in Norway. We live in a globalized world. Our young people are going out. They're backpackers, they're studying abroad, they like to marry foreigners and even get a job or two abroad before they return home. Other people come to our country – someone through marriage, study or work, others like refugees. The moving current has changed the social image. Norway has gone from being a more uniform people to becoming a multicultural and diverse society. Both the Government and the Right have a fundamental positive attitude towards this cultural, religious and value diversity that characterises today's Norwegian reality. The right of individuals to be different, to choose their way of life freely and to think differently than the majority is also underlined in the Sem Declaration. It is the individual person who is placed at the centre of the message of diversity. Norwegian society is based on respect for human rights and democratic principles. These are fundamental values and premises for all policies. All residents of Norway, regardless of their background, shall have equal rights, obligations and opportunities to use their resources. Integration and inclusion policies must have a wide range of instruments to achieve real equality and equality. Inclusion and integration is a two-way process. The majority have the primary responsibility because it has the greatest power and ability, either to discriminate or to combat discrimination. It is important to prevent discrimination and prejudices, in order to provide the best basis for immigrants to participate in society. But as important as facilitating things well, we also clearly communicate that we expect and demand active interaction and acceptance for the fundamental values of our society. All work on immigrants should be based on the background of the individual. Integration measures for children with a migrant background must start at birth and follow children and parents through kindergarten and school. Both children and parents must feel cared for, accepted and valued. It is a prerequisite that children should not feel outside because of lack of language, understanding, identity and belonging. Linguistic skills and language skills are essential for the success of society. Therefore, Norwegian training is important for minority language children and adults. All children born and raised in Norway should be able to speak Norwegian before they start school. Trials with free short-term kindergarten for four- and five-year-olds have produced good results. Other measures have also been taken to stimulate the learning of the smallest Norwegians. Active action in the field of education is important to achieve the objective of good integration and inclusion. At school, the possibility of enhanced Norwegian education shall provide minority language students with sufficient knowledge and skills to follow normal education. Adapted training also applies to all children in Norwegian primary schools, and ethnic Norwegian children as well as children belonging to minority groups should have the same opportunities in the Norwegian school system. It's not to conceal that the challenges are many, but by investing in good organisation of school life, language training and school-home cooperation, I think much will be done to reduce the differences. On that occasion, I would like to commend the Council of State, Kristin Clement, for her great efforts for School-Norway. The increase in school hours and the increase in school hours provide better opportunities for everyone to succeed in school everyday life. Norwegian society must actively communicate the need for education. Equal rights to education are fundamental in our welfare system. It is of course a starting point that this right also includes immigrants and minorities in Norway. The percentage of minority speakers entering secondary school is now lower than the average, and immigrants are generally underrepresented in higher education. Here is the unused resources that we need to know to stimulate. In addition, some third-world women have very little or no education. We are fined for this by the adopted introduction system and Norwegian training for immigrants. For established immigrants with little or no education, it is important to break the social heritage, so that education becomes a natural choice for the next generation. Before I leave the education area, I want to take a tour of Document No. 8:27, where the Workers' Party proposes an introduction programme for non-residents working as religious ministers in Norway. The proposal is a good example of conceptual confusion, for the Workers' Party cannot believe that religious publishers should take a two-year introduction programme where work training is one of the most important elements. It will be completely meaningless! Strengthening the training of social skills, with the final examination that must have been passed, is, moreover, already ‘ordered’ by the Stortinget after the Government Parties and the Advance Party made a settlement in the context of the 2005 State budget. Tolerance and respect are words that go back in the message. Tolerance and respect are the basis for inclusion and are important for accepting diversity. However, the limits of diversity must be set by the core values of society. It is not acceptable to live out one's culture and religion, if this leads to intrusion or abuse against fellow humans. Account must always be taken of the individual human being and its freedom and rights that must be crucial to the policies pursued. It is not to hide that our multicultural society is facing a number of issues that challenge our values and our positions. It is therefore important that we can openly recognise the problems, so that we can challenge those attitudes and actions that are not acceptable in our society. Such an area is an assault related to sexual mutilation. There is no doubt that this is a very serious problem that has dramatic consequences for those who are exposed to it, and it is a problem that still exists in Norway. Gender mutilation is a serious criminal act, no matter what tradition or culture says about it. I am pleased that the Government takes this seriously and works actively to strengthen the work against sexual harassment, among other things. through information, school health and youth health services. Forced marriages are a criminal offence in Norway, and in recent years the search light has been put on this topic. As a result, many young girls and women have sought help to avoid being compulsive or getting out of a forced marriage. Several measures have been taken, and one now sees the number of requests falling. Hopefully, this is a positive trend, and it's to hope that the efforts that both the government and the magnificence have made in this field have a positive impact. In any case, the focus must remain on women's position in society. Suppression based on culture and tradition is not acceptable. In Document No: 8:93 is one of the proposals of the Progress Party to prohibit the use of religious headgear. The debate has taken place in other European countries. In Norway, we have had single-pisods where there has been conflict in relation to the use of hijab. In the Right we believe that the prohibition of so-called eye-catching religious symbols is not the way to go. We also believe that there is a difference between women and children in this context. Adult women must decide for themselves whether to show identity and religious affiliation. On the other hand, children must be protected from being interpreted into a sexualised framework. This could be achieved by the fact that each school should ensure that students participate in the entire range of school activities. Several areas could have been mentioned. However, I will limit myself to highlighting the importance of immigrants being given access to employment and opportunities. Being economically independent means almost everything. However, while language skills are in order, many immigrants notice that it is difficult to enter the Norwegian labour market. Although the law prohibits discrimination, there is still much to be done in this area. But then we're probably talking first and foremost about changing attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e974	The right-hand side is opposed to the proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre for the Extension of the People's Circle entitled to the Introductory Programme, to those who come here at the Family Reunion. There are contacts with people who have been detained on a humanitarian basis. We have received clear messages that it is very difficult for single asylum seekers to live in many of the municipalities. If you don't get to a new arrangement, the municipalities like to miss the integration supplement, and the municipalities miss the extra supplement for the elderly, for those who need help, for example. due to mental problems. My question must therefore be, How does the Right intend to solve the problems I have referred to here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e981	During this four-year period, a number of different measures have been taken in the field of immigration. We had a period earlier how much was unstructured. We have a municipal minister who has taken action and got an overview and order in this field. We have introduced a number of new measures, including – as the Labour Party now emphasises – we have narrowed the circle of people in relation to family reunification. It's not unreasonable that we can look at this narrowing of the personality on the same lines as Immigrants. Those who come must have gained language skills and become employed in the first three years, and they will then have the opportunity to be self-sustaining and accept their family. This must be the overall and main objective of our integration policy. In addition to three years, family reunification is usually met. I will... then I think the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e988	It's probably that -- one minute goes by.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e991	The representative of Holmberg was quite clear in his statement that one must focus on equal rights, equal opportunities and equal obligations. We share that view. My first question is: what does this government do to meet these three objectives, what does the government do to focus on equal rights, equal opportunities and equal obligations being the decisive goal? Then I hear that the representative is also clear and clear that the Government – and the Right – does not at all accept cultural and religious practices that harm third parties. We are now in a situation where many Norwegian young girls and boys are exposed to both gender mutilation and forced marriage. It's not enough to say that this is forbidden by law. My question is: What will the Right concretely do in addition to the fact that the Government – and the Right – now wants to drive further information?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e998	There's a lot to say in one minute! The whole basis for the message and for our multicultural society is exactly what Per Sandberg said, that there should be equal rights, opportunities and obligations, and I also highlighted that in my post. How do we achieve these objectives? Yes, we do so through all the measures taken, and the concrete actions we take in the municipalities and from the Stortinget side. We can start with an area like school. There is full equal treatment of all in Norwegian primary schools in relation to resources and training. They can go out in the labour market – our objective is that there should be full equality and that there should be no discrimination in the labour market. Clearly, these are challenges that cannot be solved overnight, and that is why we see that action needs to be taken. Further action may need to be taken in the future. What do we do in relation to sexual mutilation and coercion? Our law is in order. We know that we don't have many judges in these areas, but they're starting to come. These are examples of us being in a rapidly changing society, and we must constantly work politically in relation to the social development we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1009	It was a majority of the Stortinget who, in the context of the communication on culture and learning, introduced compulsory foreign languages in primary school because of the fact that developments in the world, where we are taking and acting, make it important that people learn more languages. At the same time, the majority of Stortinget will not use the resource that young people who grow up in their homes with more mother tongues — or just one mother tongue — than Norwegian. It is therefore the case that kids grow up with mothers or fathers from Russia – which is one of the G8 countries – from India – which is the eighth largest industrial nation – they grow up with Arabic-speaking parents and with parents who speak Spanish – a language that we try to say that a person should start learning at high school instead. So also mention Kari Lise Holmberg's project with free kindergartens in Oslo's inner east, but the government parties are going against continuing this scheme when we propose it. What is it that makes Kari Lise Holmberg not want to use the resource that we already see in Norwegian homes, by giving free native language training to everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1016	I am somewhat uncertain whether the representative intends to remove the offer of mother tongue education in high school, or whether he believes that we should offer all students at school training in his own native language as another foreign language. There are a lot of languages that are spoken out in the population, and that's the students' native language – we can talk about close to within a couple of hundred different languages. It goes without saying that it is not natural that the school can meet such a challenge. The largest languages may come as offers of foreign languages, but we must be realistic. I guess there's some of the problems with the SV's policy. SV will be very good, and they have a lot of resources, but it's not always realistic to get all the good intentions carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1023	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1027	With regard to the notification, one may be tempted to use the term ‘nothing new from the Government’, free of the title of a book by a German author. My claim is that there is no information in the message that is not already known. But what is even worse is the absence of analysis, evidence of causality, investigation and consequences. The Communication states that Norway is a multicultural society, and points 3.1.6 also indicate that the greater the diversity of society, the greater the need to intensify the fight against racism and discrimination. The message was clearly prepared before Ot.prp. No 33 were available, so it is not referred to there, but reference is made to three other action plans against racism and discrimination, drawn up between 1992 and 1995. The funny thing is that no one has been able to prove that there is a particular amount of racism in Norway, at least not among ethnic Nordics. One might then wonder what function all these action plans have had in addition to demonstrating that the Government is doing something, in addition to demonstrating that the Government is against racism and discrimination. And it's easy to connect to for everyone. The Communication places great emphasis on the values of an overall perspective. Unfortunately, it is difficult to find some overall perspectives in the message in addition to a lot of words and honorary words. The communication has deliberately avoided the real challenges facing society, how to solve these problems. Several places in the message are highlighted that the Government places the individual person in the centre. Yes, if this had really been the case, and that it also includes ethnic Northmen — which should be a matter of course — it may be justified to ask why the Norwegian people were not asked before a election to convert Norwegian society from being a relatively monocultural and well-functioning society to what we see the contours of today. There is little doubt that the transition from a monocultural society to a multicultural society has greater challenges and greater consequences than the one mentioned in the Communication. The forwarding party is of the opinion that the notification contains too much summary of the measures already taken, while being too low in commitment and concrete in terms of the choice of instruments against the future challenges outlined. The report notes that there is a diversity in Norway, but we already knew this, of course. At all, there is very little in the message about what we did not know before, and a lot of measures are summarized – as if we had forgotten them. With regard to this matter, and the other two issues we are dealing with now, it is still that there is only one party that will dare and challenge the political environment to prevent the challenges and consequences of which we see the outlines. Today, through these three cases, we are going to deal with 58 proposals. I almost have to make a comment to the representative Eye, who referred to all the proposals that have been put forward here today. Of these 58 proposals, the Labour Party contributes to the creation of a majority for five – three of these Progress Party proposals. That is what the Workers' Party is in a way satisfied with today. But I record that both the Labour Party and the rest of the Storting through these three matters are very good at writing: yes, we will follow the case with the argus eyes, yes, we will assess the matter, yes, we will come back, etc. The representative Holmberg even said: Yes, there may be a need for action once in the future. I do not think there is any doubt that action may be needed in the future. But then we'll be in exactly the same situation as we are today; we get the majority for a number of actions that are repairing, we'll repair the consequences of being naive for too long. Then we get the kind of headlines that are the most immigrants in the crisis centres, that more and more violence affects immigrant children, that immigrants do not get jobs. We get that because we're going to think in retrospect. Our proposals, which are on the table here today, are preventive measures, so that we will release these kinds of headlines in the future. That is the aim of the Progress Party. Today, we have a description of the situation, which is also made clear in the communication: we have not claimed to be a happy multicultural society, because inadequate measures and requirements for immigrants in Norway have ensured that we build societies in the communities. A Swedish researcher who moved to a suburb in Malmö made an article at the integration conference in Stavanger. He was not talking about ghettoization any more, he was just talking about enclaves. It is clear that the majority of the political parties sitting here today have been deliberately acquired. Then, of course, it is natural that concentration today is about promoting as many measures as possible and legislative changes to repair a significant damage done in terms of creating integration, a significant damage to these young people who are now growing up in Norwegian society and who are being put on the sidelines. There is no requirement, except from the Progress Party, that there should be penalties when a Norwegian child meets at school and cannot Norwegian. There shall be penalties. Someone has to be held responsible for it. Now I don't have small children anymore, but I assume that if I were to stand still with my first-class child and my child couldn't Norwegian, I would probably have been held responsible for it. There is no one who will now be involved in concrete sanctions in relation to these children being sent out of the country without control. We just stand there and are witnesses to it. But then it will be as the representative Holmberg said: Yes, perhaps once in the future we must have action. It's too late. The measures must now be put in place. We have numbers and materials that say that large parts of Norwegian youth with immigrant background are put on the sideline. It is not useful to point out, as the representative Signe Eye does, that many young people drop out of high school. We know they're doing it, but what do we do with it? Could that be interesting, for example. taking the child’s pension from the dropout of high school or not otherwise activated? That is the kind of action we need to take to stop development. It is clear that it is also not useful to be passive in relation to measures against adult immigrants. We need to move more towards activation rather than a passivity. It's still true that when we're done with things here in the hall today, there's almost nothing that's bringing us forward in relation to making demands on those who are coming and going to live in Norway, and that's regrettable. I conclude by promoting all the good proposals of the Progress Party in these three cases, which unfortunately none of the other parties find an opening to support. I am also addressing those proposals where the Progress Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1057	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President must be reminded that quotations are to be referred to when they are used from the pulpit. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1064	During the national meeting of the Progress Party, it emerged that a total ceiling of 1000 non-residents would be set for Norway this year. We know that only the number of Norwegian men who marry foreign women is four to five times higher – this year. Most of the proposals made by the Progress Party in the present case are also related to making narrower the need for those who come as asylum seekers, who come to family reunification or by other means. My question to the Progress Party is: How has the Progress Party intended to limit the opportunities of ethnic Norwegian men to family reunification? Is it e.g. in the case of soldering, shall it be determined by geography, or how did they intend to do so? I am pleased to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1071	The representative Eye is in an area where the Progress Party has actually created movement for a tightening. We demand support, where we still believe that it is a bit to go on when it comes to family reunification with a spouse. I know that is one of the areas that the government also has to assess. With regard to other restrictions on family reunification policy and marriage, it should not be unknown to the representative Eye that we want a 24-year limit, that we want to ban marriages between cousins and cousins, and that we want to demand housing requirements. We've never hidden that tightening, and it's necessary. With regard to the 1000 that we have programmed, it comes from the fact that it is simply necessary to apply such a tightening because we are not able to absorb the type of immigration that has been in recent years. Now we need to focus on facilitating the integration of those in Norway, instead of spending a lot of resources on accepting new ones that need to be integrated into the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1080	Society is in continuous change. That's what it's been for now, and it's still going to be. That is why I said in my speech that action will be necessary in the future as well. I think Per Sandberg has deliberately misunderstood this. So the world is not black and white, and it's not stationary. If we run a policy that is black or white, I think we're conflict-making. The government chooses another way to go. We have actions that are being implemented, we work with attitudes, and we have respect for the individual. You have to understand that things take time. Many of the refugees come from other cultures. They have a completely different background than us, and therefore they must also be treated with respect and understanding. That's the background for the whole message, that's the bottom plan of the message. But the Progress Party is running a harder line. Doesn't the Progress Party see that it can be a conflict-making line?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1089	What creates conflict in a society is that one takes people for granted. When one takes people for granted, one in the long run will create conflicts, not only between ethnic nords and immigrants, but also between immigrants themselves. This is what has been dangerous in the development of Norway, that the people who have come to Norway have been taken for granted. I am absolutely sure that if you had challenged the immigrants who have come to Norway, with these demands that we want to make, they would have many times said yes. No people want to be taken for granted, they want to be asked for. People want to be challenged! Let's just do one example. Many in this room believe that the quotaing of immigrants is the solution, perhaps also the representative Holmberg, for everything I know. If we ask the question to the immigrant himself, if he wants to be quotad into Norwegian society, we will get a multiple no in answer. They will be in the same arena and in the same competition as ethnic Northmen, and then we have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1098	I think that if you ask that question to immigrants, you will get as different answers as you get from the Nordics, because immigrants are at least as different as us. They should also be treated in one bag, not as the Progress Party will, focusing only on problems. I also want to challenge the Progress Party on the quota regime for Norwegian men who want to marry foreign women. He gave no answer to the question asked by the Workers' Party. Finally, with regard to one of the topics Sandberg addressed, namely drop-outs in high school, one of the problems for these children is that they have not been recognised for having to learn their own language, which could be a different language. It is very nice that many in Norway master Urdu and Arabic – in a modern world. Another problem is that they have not received an offer in the nursery, where they could have learned Norwegian. Instead, the Progress Party will punish parents who prove to have another native language at home, and not give these children the rights to kindergarten, which could have taught them Norwegian. How in all the world does the Progress Party make this intertwine?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1107	It is possible that a trouser is a bit slow, but I still do not understand what the representative Andersen is looking for when it comes to a quota scheme for ethnic Norwegian men. At least I have not mentioned any quota arrangements here. It is possible that SV wants a quota there too, as they want for the rest of the population, to limit it within a certain framework. I think I made it quite clear to our tightening up on family reunification policy, and especially in the case of spouses. It will also affect ethnic Northmen. I've even gone so far as to say that ethnic Northmen who take spouses from abroad, and who otherwise practice violence, should be in a register, so that we let that development go. With regard to kindergarten and language training, is it really the case that we need special measures, that we should set up kindergartens to teach immigrant children Norwegian? How meaningless is it that a proposal is? Norwegian training for young children is, of course, the responsibility of parents! It cannot be that the public should enter immediately after a migrant family has had a child and learn Norwegian about this child. It's the parents' responsibility, and we stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1116	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1119	Norway is a multicultural society, but in spite of this, I believe that in recent years we have lacked an explicit policy for multiculture. When processing this message, all batches, other than the Advance Party, try to take some good steps in the right direction. A policy for a multicultural Norway must be based on values inherent in fundamental human rights, equality and democracy, and in the basic understanding that all those growing up in that country, and all Norwegian citizens, have equal rights to influence the development of society. It's about the simple question, when do you stop being immigrants? Is it when you have received a permanent residence permit? Is that when you were born here? Is it when your parents are born here? Is it when you've become white, or is it when you speak Norwegian fluently? The point is that we have to free ourselves from the notions of second- and third-generation immigrants. In the United States and Canada, they have gone away from it a long time ago, talking about ‘first- and second-generation citizens’. The Communication states that Norway should be called ‘subsequent’, and we will see if it is an effective concept. I would like to say that the strength of the communication is the perspective towards individuals, that the communication establishes in principle what is SV's electoral language, namely that we are different people who should have equal opportunities. But the weakness of the message is that it fails to admit that being a minority in Norway actually defines you as a group, a group that is too much of an economic underprivileged group. The figures show that the class divisions, which have become even clearer under this government, are too much in common with ethnicity. There's a dualism in it that we want to become color blind while we're on our way to that goal cannot fail to see that ethnicity and culture are part of the whole human being that we actually have to deal with if we're to achieve equality. SV therefore believes that integration and inclusion policies must be based on an objective of ethnic equality, because minorities are clearly discriminated against in relation to housing and work, and because many fall out of basic training. A policy for this is lacking, and not least there is a major deficiency in the communication on proposals for concrete measures. In some areas, even the government has clearly gone wrong. We have together set up a law of discrimination to help individuals – without the obligation of activity for which SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre were – but we need to work more structurally to get something done with discrimination. For example, in the housing market, we need to have several non-commercial non-profit rental properties. For when 80 pst. the rental market is private, and a large proportion of those renting a flat or a flat are individuals, are easily discriminated against, preferably unconsciously. Therefore, we need rental alternatives driven by those who have a deliberate policy of non-discrimination, such as housing, student relationships or public bodies. In the labour market, we must use the knowledge that employers are prejudiced against minorities, but less prejudiced after they have employed minorities. We have implemented arrangements for calling for an interview in public enterprises. However, the majority opposes the extension of this to all organisations or enterprises receiving State aid. There is a need for all public activities to reflect the composition of the population, especially in relation to this with minorities, thereby providing targets and recruitment plans, especially in public institutions. In particular, training institutions need to do so. Here in Oslo we have examples of schools that have up to 80-90 pst. minority students, but who still do not have a single bilingual teacher. I think that's a warning to us that here we have a job to do to move on. The Discrimination Act provides for a positive discrimination, or quota, but the majority opposes the proposal of the SV and the Central Party that is in place to determine the areas in which the quota instrument should have been used. The recognition system for foreign education is also an obstacle for many with a minority background, because the recognition schemes are too poor. In order to ensure faster treatment, the Storting is unanimous in favour of a review of the legislation in this particular area. But there is still a problem that it is too difficult to get approved education from other countries. It is a paradox to land, for example. in Asia, which is at the forefront of industrial development, IT development, etc., continues to be discredited for its training to be converted into Norwegian. It is also a problem that it is unclear when you come to Norway, what additional training you have to take if you receive your own education downgraded. I think it is very good that Aetat follows up long-term social welfare beneficiaries with introduction programme-like schemes. But they have to get on the track faster. There is no doubt that a good proportion of those who have migrated as refugees to Norway before the entry into force of the Introduction Act could need this type of scheme. In addition, there is no doubt that people who are family reunited may need this type of scheme, which is not initially open to today. In relation to education, a policy for ethnic equality is inter alia: to recognise the positive fact that several of the minority young people are doing very well. There are more people taking higher education, and there are more people taking higher degrees. At the same time, there is no doubt that language is a problem, or a challenge, for many of those who grow up. We believe that giving mother tongue training as a right might be the most important way to show that we recognise the goal of a multicultural Norway. In addition, studies from Thomas and Collier show that mother tongue training, together with bilingual vocational training for at least seven years, is a prerequisite for learning Norwegian, but also for functional bilingualism, which would be a gigantic resource for Norway compared to our positioning in a global world. At the same time, we suggest that it should be possible for young people to choose some of the foreign languages used in Norway as second language, i.e. to choose their mother tongue as second language, which would allow more people to learn the very great languages like Urdu and Arabic. Several bilingual educators are crucial to getting into school. It is a paradox that the evaluation for Fafo showed that the free nursery in Oslo's inner east from the Oslo inner east project gave better Norwegian knowledge, gave better training on being in an organisation where Norwegian was spoken. At the same time, the Government will not continue the project. A majority on the Stortinget, all except the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, are positive for increased immigration in the coming years. What the government has failed to achieve is both to facilitate more people to work in Norway, to live here and work here, and to make it attractive for people to live here. The latter is about the kind of integration and inclusion policies pursued in Norway. Here I believe the government has failed capital. In contrast to what is stated in the Sem Declaration, the Government has not opened up labour immigration. The EU enlargement has opened up the possibility for more from the new countries to come to Norway, but the Government, together with the majority of the population, all except SV, has removed the free Norwegian training offered to them in the past and one thus signals that they are primarily wanted as short-term workers, not as residents in Norway. The majority has introduced rights and obligations to Norwegian and social education, but the number of hours has been reduced in relation to what a previous person was entitled to. In addition, the proposal to offer the introduction programme to the family reunion has been rejected. The majority today also reject the SV and the proposal of the Centre to introduce a mechanism for financing integration measures for all immigrants coming to Norway, whether they are refugees, migrant workers or come as family reunited immigrants. The government thus clearly shows that they will not take inward that an illiterate, woman or man from Kurdish Iraq may have exactly as much need for integration as refugees who come. The government says this is an individual responsibility, but our task as big-time politicians is to see what benefits society as a whole is. To remove the mainstreaming programme for family reunification and for those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, Norwegian training in asylum recipients reaches 40 p.m. stay, eliminate free language training for migrant workers and do not provide guidance and integration grants for migrant workers and family reunification are poor policies for the future. I have to come back with what goes on the fundamental human rights, in a later article. I would like to address all the proposals where we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1164	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1170	SV is concerned with the best of children and also of those who drop out of school. SV has opposed the proposal to stop child protection in case of illegal long-term absence. In the view of the Workers' Party, this is strange. There is already legislation today. First of all, this legislation says that parents have an obligation to apply for an exemption and obtain approval before their children are removed from school. Secondly, within a certain period of time, the school must report to the school establishment. The school establishment shall report to the local social security office and the social security office shall stop the family allowance if the child is living abroad for a certain period of time. In fact, it is an obligation to notify the social security office if the child benefit is to be maintained when staying abroad. The maximum permitted age is 12 months. My question to the representative Holmås is: What does SV find so problematic about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1179	That's of course because we don't think it's a very good idea. We are not sure that this will ensure that the kids get back to the Norwegian schools. We have much more faith in entering into a dialogue with our parents, being in the forefront and talking about the whole issue. In those cases where we actually believe that this is going to affect the kids we're talking about, we've proposed to set up a child protection unit that can deal with the cases where the kid is abroad, or where it's suspected that it happens. That's what the Workers' Party is against. If you think this is very important, you should make sure to connect the child protection system and possibly the police in such cases instead of just stopping the child protection system and saying, "Look here, now we've solved the problem." We believe it would be much more important to get in touch with the parents and the kids by having such a kind of arrangement in relation to child protection instead of just cutting child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1186	SV is critical in a note that immigrant groups and organisations assist students with homework. Volunteering and volunteering have long and good traditions in Norway. In fact, we hadn't made it without it. Humanity and empathy characterise voluntary work. In Oslo, Red Cross operates with homework both in schools and in other premises. This is successful, it's positive work. I almost have to be allowed to ask SV: what's wrong with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1195	No, you know what, now I was a little surprised here. If it's true that we're in a comment where we're against homework, it has to be a mistake. Of course, homework is great! We think it is very important to support organisations involved in homework, as well as other organisations involved in language training. In relation to mother tongue training, which will be an important resource, the government is going against it because they think it's a bad idea. We think homework is good. I was at Tøyen School who practises a scheme in which they have deliberately invested in bilingual teachers who are in and who are much better able to provide proper training and bilingual vocational training to the students. They also have an arrangement where they organize and help people with homework. Parents contribute, and organisations contribute in a very good way. I think Kari Lise Holmberg would stick up at Tøen school, for what they know, is that when they put on bilingual vocational training and bilingual teachers, they come much easier in contact with their parents. That's why Kari Lise Holmberg should be for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1206	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1209	I am pleased that today we are dealing with the message of inclusion and diversity, where the immigrant groups themselves have been involved in the process. After a long time of immigration, it is necessary to look at how our immigrants have been included in our society. Every eighth population has either mother or father or both born abroad. This has led to a diverse, multicultural and multi-religious society. This makes our society exciting, varied and, of course, challenging. This challenges us in what it means to be Norwegian. Traditional thinking must give way, and the concept must be extended to people of different skin color, ethnicity, religion, traditions, etc. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the different groups are included and represented throughout society. It is important to create a society that offers equal opportunities for participation and that recognises diversity. The Christian People's Party places the individual in the center. The individual human being has the right to be different. The Storting Communication discusses fundamental challenges that Norway will face when citizens become more different in lifestyle, issues of faith and value orientation. The Christian People's Party is saying yes to diversity and yes to individual freedom, but at the same time we must ensure the opening up of rules of play that everyone must follow, including common laws and rules, and ensure respect for the values of society. National construction by making all groups equal or by allowing a group to dominate is neither desirable nor feasible. A nation that believes in creative diversity must create an opinion of itself as a community of citizens based on some values that can be shared by all. The Christian People's Party believes that there is an absolute limit to tolerance in illegal acts. Forced marriage and circumcision cannot be accepted. It is directly contrary to Norwegian law and must be prevented. There may also be other behaviours and attitudes that are desirable to influence, even if they are not illegal. First coals of descendants born in Norway by foreign-born parents are becoming adults and on the way to working and social life. Most of the descendants born in Norway still attend primary school. The real test piece of whether we get to diversity like inclusion and participation is how the descendants of first-generation immigrants will place themselves in the social image when they grow up. Integration policies and policies for diversity need to be distinguished through inclusion and participation. Diversity policy through inclusion and participation aims to give all citizens, regardless of background, religion or origin, equal opportunities to make independent choices as to how they want to organise their lives. There shall be no major social and economic differences following ethnic dividing lines. The aim is that the relationship between groups and environments in the population develops as harmoniously as possible and without excessive social tensions. The Communication states that developments are moving in the right direction in most areas. First-generation immigrants improve living conditions with increased living time, and the offspring come out better than the first generation in those areas where comparable data are available. But the picture is complex. There are wide variations between groups by country of origin and within the groups, and there are several concerns, such as: drop-out, poverty, income imbalance, unemployment and crime. The communication focuses on four areas. There are children's opportunities in Norwegian society. The Christian People's Party expects adults to behave so that they do not create obstacles to children participating in society and making independent choices. At the same time, authorities need to facilitate a social system and climate of attitudes that contribute to inclusion and equivalence. From 1 September 2004, municipalities were required to provide introduction programmes to refugees and persons with a humanitarian residence. There is a broad consensus that all adult immigrants must have completed 300 hours of Norwegian education and social skills. Yesterday in the evening post, we could read about the artist Muhammad Ali Fadlabi, who has learned Norwegian by working in an art gallery. His example shows that qualification benefits. Profo researcher Hanne Kavli says that the new introduction system is clearly more effective than previous schemes. There has been a lot of criticism here today that the message is too little concrete. I would like to mention some experimental measures that the message outlines, including: New opportunities, which are intended for social assistance clients among immigrants with a certain time of residence. The measure shall be based on the same model as the introduction programmes. The government will also publish experimental tools to help self-help-based projects in health, family, youth and gender issues. We know that many non-governmental organisations are already making an affordable effort today. The Christian People's Party believes that an effort for equal opportunities in education is the most important thing to do to prevent large social and economic differences from following ethnic divisions in the future. We are pleased that the Ministry of Education has presented both a new paper and a strategy plan on this, Culture for learning and the Strategy Plan for equivalent education in practice. Ensuring access to and equal opportunities for work is important. Here, each one of them has to use his resources and abilities to enjoy both for himself and for society. Work contributes to the smoothing of social differences and to inclusion in the community. The Christian People's Party believes that the new State of Labour and Welfare is a good move to coordinate and contribute to faster qualification for work. Providing equivalent services that take into account the fact that citizens can have new and different needs than the majority is to recognise the new diversity in practice. As regards Document No: 8:27 on the introduction programme for foreigners working as religious ministers in Norway, the Christian People's Party rejects the proposal. The size has previously adopted legislation on language training. This training also applies to religious publishers. This has also been addressed in the Storing Communication. The Ministry has previously assessed the need for its own theological education for publishers in religious minority communities, but has not found that the need is large enough to initiate such education. [[Stones]] Prohibiting the use of garments that act as stigmatizing, such as hijab, is not the way to go. It can work against its purpose. In the case of Norwegian training, I refer to what is stated in the Training Act and in the Strategy Plan. The Christian People's Party also points out that the Ministry of Children and Family has, at the hearing, sent a proposal for changes and tightening of the Children's Rights Code when students have absences due to stay abroad. This we think can prevent children from returning to their parents' homeland. It is important that children stay in Norway and receive most of their training here where to live. On that basis, we reject this proposal. I will end with a quote from Mahatma Gandhi, which I think fits very well for this message: ‘I do not want my house to have walls on all sides and the windows to be stopped again. I want every country's culture to blow as free as possible around my house. But I refuse to be blown away by anything."
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1257	The government says in the big message that we are now debating, that it must be directed towards the successors of the first-time immigrants, but they will have different goals for them than for the parental regeneration. The Labour Party thinks this is an artificial separation. The growing-up conditions of children are closely linked to the conditions of parents, e.g. linguistic competence, education and economic autonomy. However, when the government chooses to do what it does, it should ensure that a person introduces free core time into kindergartens for the 4- and 5-year-olds in areas and school circles with many minority-speaking people. We have proposals for this. The Christian People's Party has not failed to support it, although it is a very accurate system. My question is therefore: why does the Christian People's Party reject using resources on an important measure for this group of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1264	I agree with the representative Reidar Sandal that children depend on their parents. In the case of free core time in kindergartens, I suggest that this greatness has adopted a different kindergarten priority. It is bet on full coverage and lower price. There's a record bet on kindergartens that may not reach the group that needs it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1271	There are two things I want to challenge the representative of Stenersen. This applies in particular to the training of religious leaders. We have made a settlement with the government parties here, and in that agreement it says that the training should end with an exam that has to be passed. From that point of view, one might think that training should be compulsory. It's related to an exam. But we have a proposal here that I record that neither the Christian People's Party nor the Government want to support. I would like an answer as to why it is so difficult for the Christian People's Party to support the agreement that we have concluded. It is possible that I lost the connection here, but I seem to hear that the representative Stenersen wants to use a lot of resources to monitor the competence of immigrants, to get the recognition of a profession as soon as possible. In fact, there is also a proposal on the table today, which I have not recorded that the parties of government or the Christian People's Party are joining. What could be the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1278	The proposal on which the parties to the Government were party to the Advancement Party is well established and is contained in the communication. We don't think it's necessary to have the same proposal twice. In terms of skills and training, it is important to get people out of work quickly. I believe that the coordination that is now taking place between the Aetat and the Social Security Office and the Social Security Office will help everyone to move faster into qualifications and get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1286	The last talk talks a lot about the opportunities for children and young people — about the possibilities for their descendants. They will have the same opportunities in Norwegian society as in anyone else. I guess that's good. But what is it that makes the Christian People's Party opposed the proposal of the Progress Party, the SV and the Central Party to set up a separate section of child protection that should address issues where you do not know where the children are, but suspects that they might be abroad, just to give them a proper follow-up? If you want to give all children equal opportunities, what is it that the Christian People's Party, in spite of the reports that have come from Redd Barna and others, blue-necks for children who are lone minor asylum seekers to have the same rights and the same opportunity to be taken care of by child protection, and that child protection should have the overall responsibility for them instead of the Foreign Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1291	It is true that the Christian People's Party does not support the SV, the Center Party and the Progress Party's proposal that child protection should take care of all children who come to Norway in asylum. There have been many improvements in this area in recent years. Asylum recipients have acquired professional competence in the field of child protection. The protection of children shall deal with any notification relating to the concern of a child in receipt. Then, within one week, child protection is required to deal with the notification and, where appropriate, to take action to assist that child. Many progress has been made in this area, but it is clear that we need to improve it even more. We don't want asylum seekers to go directly to child protection institutions, because it's screening that's going to, and a lot of different things, like tracking their parents, to which we think UDI is better than child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1298	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1301	Norway is a multicultural society: 200 nationalities and 8 pst. immigrants. It's a challenge for national and local government, as well as for work and leisure arenas, even for some of us whether we're born and raised in Norway or we're immigrants. The centre party wants good meeting places. Many organisations advocate joint arenas, where we can give each other the possibility of knowledge, understanding, respect and cooperation. Many organisations contribute to good joint arenas. There are 70 children’s and young people’s organisations that do a very important job. We also believe it is important to give minority youth greater opportunities to participate in these organisations and to create their own platforms. The Fafo report referred to in the last issue of the newspaper Untrop tells something about the involvement of immigrant youth in organisations. It also tells us that there are some people who are not allowed to participate, even if they want to participate. So here's a job to do. We are concerned that good joint arenas, for example. Horizons, Anti-racist centres, the Vard model and the KIA, arenas that create inadequacies and inclusion and participation shall also have the potential for sustainable income. We're surprised by the trifle government shows up in this area. The number of applications has increased year by year, but they are suitable for securing multiples together with the Progress Party to keep the level of payments down. It's a challenge for the Christian People's Party, which is engrossed in strengthening volunteering, and it's a challenge for the Progress Party, which today is talking a lot about prevention and how important it is. Then, of course, the school is a very important meeting place for mutual understanding, for respect and interaction. A prosperous and good community economy is very crucial both to secure a good and free school and to allow municipalities to stimulate culture and volunteering. Recruitment to the labour market for immigrants must be intensified. The introduction programme is important, but the first point is actually to be called for an interview, and we have a proposal that we agree with SV that not only the state should have targets for recruiting immigrants, but institutions and voluntary organisations that accept State aid should also be required to call in at least one immigrant for an interview. The mapping of competences is of course decisive. There are too long procedures, whether one is an immigrant or a Norwegian youth who has been out of the country for education. We are pleased that the plural now stands behind asking the government to intensify its efforts there to ensure faster clarification. Language is a different language override. We found it totally wrong to set the age limit for anyone who can participate in language training, and we disagree that Norwegian training has been removed for those who have an unsolved application in asylum recipients. When it comes to speeding up the settlement of refugees, everyone who wants to do so must go in in order to reintroduce the integration grant for those who are being detained on a humanitarian basis. So there's some point that requires special attention, both coercion and sexual mutilation. When asked for follow-up from the Government's side, it is important to stress that the distribution for which there are now multiples is not a regular one. [[The President clubs.]] I'll come back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1324	The current settings and the current settings are a solid value message from the Government and the Storing. Immigration is necessary and positive. Cultural, religious and valuable diversity is fundamental to the country and to all of us. It is the foundation of the broad majority's approach to this issue, all except the Progress Party. On that basis, the Government and the majority take an honest and thorough view of the challenges that also lie in integrating people with the background of cultures that in some areas violate what we perceive as values in our society. Here, too, there are clear value messages. There is no point in accusing anyone of naivety or valuable relativism. Democracy, equality, freedom of individuals, the fight against coercion and violence shall be pursued and mirrored against environments and persons whose understanding of these values is not as great as that of the majority, that is. also most immigrants. For the Left, it is obvious that nations and societies need the cultural and economic stimulus that immigration is. A diverse society is a good society. Immigration contributes to the development of society in a positive and diverse direction. It requires good integration, and those who come here want integration and respect for Norwegian laws. The left believes it's an honest thing to look for a better future for itself and its family, whether for political or economic reasons. For Norway, it is enriching that people who want to create a future come here. We also know that we will not be able to maintain today's growth and value creation at today's birth rates. Immigration is therefore also an economic and valuable necessity for Norway. Opening up labour immigration will also avoid abuse and pressure on the institution of asylum. The success of immigration is conditional on a good integration policy. Immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers have a very different starting point. It must also be reflected in the integration policy. Good integration is a two - way responsibility in which all parties must contribute to success. Left wants integration, not assimilation or segregation. We also want integration based on communication, mutual tolerance and respect. Discrimination based on faith, culture and ethnicity cannot be tolerated in Norway, even in the form of pass-by. At the same time, everyone must be called upon to take responsibility for their own lives, and society must give all citizens the opportunity and freedom to take that responsibility. The prerequisite for a multicultural society is a common respect for adopted laws and central values. That means there are limits to tolerance. When there is a conflict between democratically established laws and cultural, religious and traditional practices, the laws must have clear primacy. Culture or religion may never be allowed as a reason for repression or deprivation of fundamental freedoms. Work is a key to taking power over your own life and your own integration. The Scandinavian welfare model is based on the principle: ‘Do your duty, demand your right!’ In Norway, a general understanding has been built over decades of the individual’s efforts in relation to the community that determines the individual’s rights and security. For many, our social security system has been shy and, in fact, discouraging in relation to the principle of self-sufficiency. The growing-up conditions of children must be at the heart of integration policy. Society needs to facilitate participation in voluntary organisations, sports and cultural activities, and children’s right to school and childhood is a seaworthy thing. The main division of immigration and integration policies is now as before between the Progress Party and the others here in the Chamber. It is striking and a little shame that the Progress Party considers it necessary to conclude very many important joint messages of value, on which all the others in the Committee have agreed. At the same time, the batch enters some open doors when they try to give the impression that it is only those who take part of the challenge within this field seriously. It's wrong. The Progress Party is right to include some important value messages, such as the fight against discrimination and racism. That's good. But it's still so that the party generalises in its claims and has a general negative, partly moralizing description that appeals to other things in us. In the end, the left would just say that we are behind the comments and proposals that the government parties are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1353	Trine Skei Grande lives in the interior of Oslo, she lives in Old Town. My question to Trine Skei Grande is: why in the world is it that the Left, because I suppose the Left joins the rest of what the Government does, goes against continuing the project in the inner Oslo East that gave children with a minority background a unique opportunity to learn Norwegian before they started school? Then she also talks about labour immigration. After all, I agree with the Left in relation to the principle of more labour immigration from areas outside the EU. But why is it that all of the signals sent out by the Government during this period have gone in the opposite direction? We have removed Norwegian training for migrant workers, and the Government has not been involved in extending the system of labour immigration outside the EEA territory. In addition, they have not been involved in providing their own integration measures, as we have proposed, for immigrants, workers or others who are not refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1360	That's quite right, what Heikki Holmås says about my bopel. That means that the inner Oslo east is part of the city that I mean to know quite well. We have had a good integration policy because many of our immigrants have been gathered in the centre of Oslo. That means that many of us have had to deal with us differently with the immigrant population than in many other European and also Nordic big cities. But what's happening now is a great emigration from the inner Oslo east in terms of this part of our population. They're moving from the traditional districts, where we've had an instrument, to other parts of the city. That's why we have to think about a new tool. That's why we have to think, for example. to transfer all the ideas of the good schools in the Middle East, which have worked with just the minority population, to the new schools, where we see that we get a larger share with a minority background. That means we can't hold on to all of the old tools. We have to think of some new ones. I should have liked to have talked more about labour immigration, but we have done quite a few reforms, integration programmes, etc., which I think we will enjoy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1369	After all, the Left is neither the largest party in Norway nor in the world, but I registered that the representative was concerned that the Progress Party was the only party that was alone in this matter with discrimination, narrowing down immigration policy, requirements for integration, etc. When we adopted the new Discrimination Act on 19 April, we had the support of strong institutions such as human rights defenders, state lawyers, the Ministry of Justice, etc. In addition, we see a development in which Europe, the EU, is actually moving towards the Progress Party. I think it is a bit striking that the Left maintains that it is the Progress Party in Norway that is on the wrong track, when we see that the rest of Europe is moving towards us. Could it be that the Left is a little naive and that the Progress Party is actually right in some areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1376	The left has only two representatives in this room. It's about as many as the party leader of Per Sandberg had in this room when he started out as a party leader, and he's still a party leader. That's nice role models for the rest of us. What the Progress Party must boast of is that the Progress Party has sometimes had the ability to point to problems. The problem is that the Progress Party has never had the ability to pull solutions out of its pocket, because the solutions always become big grips that are going to hit everyone, and big grips that don't take inward the variation that really exists in the population. It's a stigmatisation of groups instead of really going in and solving the problem. I've worked a lot on coercion issues. The progress game must boast that they've put their finger on it, but finding the solutions they're not as good at. What happens in Europe, which we might be able to get away from, is the right wave that Per Sandberg refers to. We haven't actually had a naive policy. We've come up with some issues. In fact, politicians have been raising problems in this room for a long time, while in a country like this one. The Netherlands has suffocated them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1387	I thought I would give Trine Skei Grande the opportunity to answer my question about labour immigration, since the only thing she was able to pull up when she said that they had a lot of work immigration measures were measures relating to refugees. It'll be a little tame if you really want more work immigration. In addition, I'll ask Trine Skei Grande to look around when she goes home this afternoon, and take a walk into the Old Town school – if she does it from time to time. It's not like there's no longer any minority language students in Old Town school, and everyone's moved to Groruddalen. Both in the Old Town and Tøen, the proportion of minority language students is 80–90 pst., and classes can be found where only students with a minority background go. My question is, when Trine Skei Grande knows that a measure works, what is it that she says that this measure could have been used more places, and we should learn from that, but instead of using this more places, we cut it out completely, because that's the trick?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1397	I'm often at Old Town school. It's a great school, with an amazing principal. If I had any children to contribute, I would have liked to send them to that school. But the minority language proportion is falling. What's interesting, though, is that the students at the Old Town School, a school with so many minority language students, are among the best in the city to read. And why are they? Well, because they've had good teachers who've done good projects, who've found the right working methods to work with these kids. We hear on the radio today that ten months is too little for reception classes – which is one news – but when I travel to the competent schools, they are good at this, I meet students who speak Norwegian fluently after eight months. I believe that if we can't see the professional development and development of the new methods among teachers, and can't transfer them to the new schools, then we're clinging to old tools, and then we can't develop new ones. In the case of labour immigration, I think that Heikki Holmås and I are going to discuss it a lot in the election campaign, because there are also some pigs in the forest I would like to have taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1408	The Coastal Party will have a strict immigration policy. This also applies to family reunification. In the case of Innst. S. No 185, supports the Coastal Party's proposals No. 1 and 2 by the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 3, from SV and the Workers' Party, proposal No. 4. by the Party of Progress, SV and the Party of Centres, proposal No. 8, from the SV and the Central Party, and the proposals No. 15–23, Nos. 27–29, Nos. 31-34, Nos. 37–40 plus proposal No. 42, all from the Advance Party. The coastal party is in favour of the Committee's recommendation, with the exception of VI. In the case of Innst. S. No 184, supports the Coastal Party's proposal No. 2. by the Progress Party, and the recommendation of the Committee. In the case of Innst. S. No 183, supports the Coastal Party's proposals No. One, two, five and six, of the Progress Party, and the recommendation of the Committee. Crime trends and developments towards more fundamentalist Muslim environments in Norway show that we are facing major challenges in integration work. The potential for success will largely depend on the scale of immigration. The coastal party therefore wants limited and controlled immigration. The coastal party believes that regardless of the background, those who are granted residence and residence permits in Norway must also have their own responsibility for adapting to Norwegian standards, laws and regulations. Norwegian language and social education shall aim to provide people with different backgrounds with insight into our laws and regulations and respect for them, in order to comply with them. If our laws and regulations do not apply to immigrants, and they themselves do not actively contribute to their integration, they should consider returning to their original country of origin. They have a home to travel to. Honorary drapery, coercion and sexual mutilation are culturally conditional abuses from which we strongly distance ourselves. We support a further follow-up, insofar as it does not degenerate so that Muslim girls are subjected to abuse in the name of the good intention. The Coastal Party agrees with the Advance Party that parent language training is the responsibility of the individual family rather than society. We would like to know if you have calculated the cost of proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox Textbooks for mother tongues and bilingual vocational training for children from more than 200 different nations will be a significant expenditure increase. The coastal party believes this is financial resources that the school desperately needs to carry out adapted training for all. Parental education in school also takes time from normal education, and these children need more, no less time to gain the necessary knowledge. Many Norwegian immigrants are property barons in their country of origin. Millions are sent out of the country every year. Large investments are made in mosques and expensive cars. If more money is to be spent on integration measures, the Coastal Party believes that immigrants themselves should be given greater responsibility, including financial responsibility. The Coastal Party supports proposals for compulsory training in Norwegian and community subjects with compulsory exams for foreign publishers. We believe that the religious communities themselves have to pay the cost of such training, as we also believe that when applying for family reunification for a spouse, they themselves have to bear the costs of training in Norwegian and social subjects when the application is granted. The Coastal Party would otherwise stress that we consider it essential to maintain the Christian purpose paragraph and also the Norwegian Constitution as a basis for values for the school. Such a anchoring of values means that the attitudes conveyed through the school should be marked by the mutual responsibility for each other that characterizes our Christian teachings. This does not conflict in any way with the fact that the school should also be inclusive and tolerant of students with a different background in life, and we will support a comprehensive CRL subject that provides a good and respectful introduction into Christianity and the basis of faith and value for other religions. The coastal party is not subject to forced quotaing, but we are hot followers of the work done by non-governmental organisations, and support proposal No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1429	With reference to two previous posts here, respectively the post of Signe Eye and the line to Reidar Sandal, I would like to draw attention to the fact that on 14 December last, a broad majority in Odelstinget decided to take out those who are being reunited with people who are staying on a humanitarian basis from the circuit who would be given the introduction system. The majority included the Workers' Party, which voted in favour of the bill of the Government. So it's not the government's decision to take someone out, as the case-law rapporteur Signe Eye put it. It is such that the Workers' Party has voted in favour of a law paragraph for which they now spend considerable time criticising the Government and government representatives. Repentance is allowed, but it tends to be such that when you repent you show some humility, instead of trying to substantiate the fact that you hadn't put the money into your own budget, and that you actually voted for the law change here in the hall. The most important thing about this message has not been what we have mainly discussed here in the hall. The most important part of this communication has been to put on the agenda the situation of descendants of immigrants, the situation of children and young people growing up in immigrant families but who have spent the whole or most of their lives in Norway. We wanted to focus our attention on those who grow up in Norway, and to ensure that those who have immigrant parents do not come out worse than those who have known far back in Norway. It also means that this group – the young people born and raised here – must also be recognised for who they are, and we have made sure to have a policy for them to feel at home in Norway. For the government, the question of whether we can cope with the so-called inclusion policy, and the question of establishing a new social sub-class, has not been a question of entering and measuring the living conditions of the first generation, because in all countries with the type of immigration that Norway has, living conditions for first-generation immigrants will systematically always be worse than for the population otherwise. But it's the living conditions of your child, who's born and grown up here, that we have to measure by. And it's only when we know something about it, that we can draw conclusions of the kind that the representative Heikki Holmås tried to do, namely, whether we now get a subclass of immigrants. There is no basis for saying. There is no reason to say that we have received a subclass in our society, until we know more, and before a greater proportion of the second generation or descendants have grown up. The message was not an action message. The message was a principle message. The measures set out in the Communication are intended to be examples of working methods for making choices between different interests in a multicultural society. I note that the debate we have had here is not about what was the focus of the message, but to a large extent – I say not completely, but to a large extent – about issues that relate either to foreign legislation, which is thus a full review and full treatment, and which will come to the Stortinget, or to issues related to the integration problem of newly arrived adults. I think there has been a narrowing of the debate. One must have a debate in this country about how we behave when Norway becomes a multicultural society. But it is possible that there are so small political divisions here that the main dividing line goes between the large majority of parties in this room and the Progress Party, which the representative Trine Skei Grande was also involved in. It is possible that alternatives do not exist in those areas and therefore agreed with what the Government has proposed. I believe that there are many things in the message that should have provided the basis for calm reflections, because there are many difficult choices in a multicultural society. It's not like there's one measure, one or the other, that's going to make us fight against traditions and things that we disagree with, for example. circumcision or coercion. And there are certainly many measures that could help in the work against it, but where we sometimes have to ask ourselves the question of whether the purpose sanctifies the means, or whether the rules are going to be so square that at the same time they create distance relationships and difficulties, among other things. in the case of the acceptance of the correctness of being Norwegian. But there are also many other perspectives that are important in a multicultural society. We are facing changes both in terms of how we need to provide healthcare and in terms of how care for the elderly must be organised in order to reach new groups. Last night I was in the Catholic Church and had a dialogue meeting, which is a process we have set up in connection with working on this big message. There we became, among other things, presented for the fact that we have many Vietnamese elderly people who gradually get a problem because they speak nothing but Vietnamese, because the policy was too bad at the time they came, and which is today nurturing, and to which we are simply having problems having a customised offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1452	It is possible to change, the Council of State said, in the case of integration grants in connection with family reunification with persons who have been granted a residence on a humanitarian basis. And that's what the Workers' Party has done, because we said when that case was up for the last time, that we would follow the case carefully, and we now see that this was unfortunate. The Ministry has recently provided new figures showing that there are likely to be far more than previously assumed to be in the rest of the world in all or part of the population. While the Ministry has categorically rejected Human Rights Service's figures, the Norwegian Embassy in Pakistan estimates that there are 3,000 – 4000 Norwegian citizens in Pakistan at all times and that a majority of them are children. Does this mean that the Government will now consider new measures based on the new figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1459	I am still of the opinion that we cannot go well for the Human Rights Service's numbers. We've got better numbers, but we're concerned that we have too little number base, so we have to get better practice to evaluate how many things are going on. So the hard question is, how far are we going to go into the exercise of freedom of parents? Is it wrong if a mother travels and takes her children with her and is two years in the home country because her mother is seriously ill and dying, or because others in the family need it? Is it wrong if someone chooses to say that they live in an international, globalized world, and that their children go to another school, a school that internationally may have higher standards than many of the Norwegian schools? It's also a difficult question. These are questions we're just discussing to figure out what the limits are. My attitude is that it is extremely important to work with parents of children in minority groups in Norway and tell them that they provide their children with a longer-term poorer basis for integration if they have long stays abroad and thus do not become part of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1466	The answers to the questions asked by the Council of State are clear. Yes, it is wrong if the type of practice causes serious problems on the integration side. And that should have been discovered by more people. Then the Council of State is in the same position as the Left, that the Progress Party is alone worldwide in relation to both immigration and integration. We think it's sad. But what the Council of State forgets is that this government has been the government that has moved as quickly as possible in our direction – if it is possible to say as soon as possible when it goes very slowly. However, out of three-four measures implemented by the Government, the majority are in line with proposals previously promoted by the Progress Party. I also record that the Council of State and the Government are now interested in tightening up financial sanctions on child protection when children are taken out of the country. Then it is interested to ask the Council of State: could the Council of State also imagine doing so for slightly older children? We have drop-outs among young people between the ages of 15 and 17. Could it also be possible to use the child benefit in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1475	I do not agree with the description. It is that of the measures implemented during this Government, half have never been proposed by the Progress Party, and the other half have been proposed in forms that have been completely different from those adopted by the Storting, and what we have actually implemented. But in some areas, before this government joined, there was agreement between the Right and the Advance Party on some changes. We were in agreement for a dependance claim, we were in favour of the right and obligation to Norwegian training at an earlier time, and I record that there are several people who have moved in that direction. When it comes to using child care, we need a law that is the same for everyone. I remember some of those I went to school with, who were never educated. I'm pretty convinced that if their parents had lost money, those kids wouldn't have gone to school. Because it wasn't the parents' economy or financial instruments that decided if the kids came to school, they had other problems. I think we have to start somewhere else, with e.g. better Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1482	I would like to put in a small protest and insist that we understand the focus of the message. Our point is just that if we're going to take seriously that the Government believes something about the goal of giving equal opportunities to the descendants, it's most important to grasp the things that can give equal opportunities. We believe that the most important thing is Norwegian and bilingual vocational training. We believe it is one of the most important measures. Why won't Solberg grasp the language resource that minority students represent, which lies there as an unused and discredited resource, and say that it would be amazing if more people who grew up became functionally bilingual and could have great languages like Arabic, Hindi and Punjabi, whatever, as their base? Why does the Government not listen to international research saying that language training and bilingual vocational training are a prerequisite for equal opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1487	International research has been re-examined on the question of how much Parental Training is going to achieve in order to actually gain extra benefits from it. That's exactly what the majority of people have done a long time ago, long before this period, saying that we should give native language training so that you can work and learn Norwegian, so that you have the conceptual understanding and are functionally capable of doing it. Giving it as a right becomes something completely different. I know that, because I've been a school politician and I've seen what you can experience: e.g. a Norwegian-Italian family, where the whole family had a full function in Norwegian, where the child was legally taken out of math classes because he was to have Italian lessons — to learn to communicate with his or her grandparents. It's not a state problem. However, we are concerned that when you get other foreign languages, there will be the possibility of having your mother tongue certified for exams as other foreign languages. So we're concerned with native language training as a functional support for learning to use concepts and learn Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1494	The Council of State underlined that the new challenges concern everyone in society, including new immigrants and established immigrants and their children, i.e. the whole population of Norway. The centre party is committed to stimulating various voluntary teams and organisations that make an invaluable effort in the integration process by creating good meeting places. What makes the Government so petty about actions like the Vard model, Horizon and KIA, which must work in uncertainty year after year? The amount of the application is twice the 20 million. kr for which the Government, supported by the Advance Party, has a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1504	I believe that voluntary organisations and teams have far more opportunities than the 20 million to fund their volunteer work towards minorities and others. Indeed, there are no voluntary funding schemes that exclude projects linked to more diversity. Indeed, it is fully possible for sports organisations in this country to use the large amount of drugs they have to stimulate activities that also include minority children. It's wrong if we perceive it as the only meeting places funded in our society are those that are financed by these 20 million special measures and special arrangements. When 8 pst. In Norway, all voluntary means, everything we put in, are immigrants and descendants of immigrants. Then it's up to the creativity of the different organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1509	The working party disagrees with the analysis on the basis of the Storing Communication, which places far too much responsibility for children’s growing-up conditions on parents. In our view, the public effort to smooth out shines with its absence. There should have been a strong emphasis on helping people who have bad intentions to master the challenges of everyday life. According to the Government, the major social differences that exist today are to be resolved by a general commitment to education. In the case of Norwegian training rights and obligations, the Government denied that long-term immigrants, in many cases mothers, are entitled to Norwegian free training. The question to the Council of State is therefore: how are the children of these mothers to have equal opportunities in the education system?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1514	It is not true that they do not have the opportunity to take Norwegian education. In the next five years, there will be a transitional arrangement for the right and obligation to Norwegian training which will allow all those who have not taken out their rights and have done their duty to do so to start up. The reason we've done that is because we're concerned that there should be a tighter pressure early in the process, so you don't wait and wait. The problem today is that you sit and wait. They say, "When I've got my third child, I can start learning Norwegian, because then I'll think about starting to work." One of the main reasons why we're concerned about this happening early in the phase is the desire to create the softer pressure. So it's not right what the representative says, that we think this is just the responsibility of the parents. However, it is the responsibility of parents to take responsibility for their children, including the minority population – as it is for Norwegian parents. Then we have to rust the parent role to be able to do it. That is why we have specific measures to strengthen the parental role. This is why we propose to follow-up action also to the most vulnerable parent groups, so that they can master the way in which Norwegian society operates. That's why we actually have ethnic differences in the measures we take when we look at the most vulnerable groups. Indeed, much of our poverty strategy is not based on a general approach, but on a specific one.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1521	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1526	I'm taking the word to address a couple of issues. But first, on page 34 of the vote, under point 11.2, we are not included in the majority of the committee by an incurrency, as it is called. That's very stupid, because that's where we were going to be. Actually, I'm the one who wrote the comment, so I'd like to be in on it. It's a perspective that I didn't get the time to get inside, that's the position of the fundamental human rights. So the right to choose who to marry is a fundamental human right. The government has launched action plans, and this has been the focus of attention, especially in one situation. But then you can see that after a time the attention dries off a little. They had e.g. in Oslo, a book collector who was in charge of the Oslo crisis centre, where people could be taken care of and who had been visited. It was put into the Right-steered Oslo, despite the fact that the need was indisputable and the offer was well used. It is one that makes you wonder if it is the case that the measures come when there is a lot of attention, and not when it is no longer there. In addition, I would like to say that I think it is great that a majority in the Committee is in favour of a declaration of will in the Foreign Affairs Act in relation to marriage and family reunification. That's something the Foreign Law Committee has come up with, and a majority in Stortinget thought it was positive that we should start working on it as soon as possible. Another issue concerns sexual mutilation. This is, of course, an international phenomenon and problem, which is in a way covered by the fundamental human rights in terms of health. It's at the same time something that's taken up by people that matters, all over the world. If a young person came in to a doctor, and it was suspected that the parents had taken out one eye on the child, there was no doubt a contact with child protection, and no doubt the police and other authorities would have been contacted about this, because there had been serious child abuse. The situation seems to be quite different among quite a lot of health professionals and among quite a few people who work in public bureaucracy and otherwise in society, if you discover sexual mutilation. It's a huge problem. SV believes that this is something we have to deal with in a violent way, because otherwise in a few years' time we will hear the protests from those who have been subjected to sexual harassment: why in the world were you not on the road and put forward more concrete measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1539	First a few words about two themes that the Committee has taken on, precisely because they are a result of cultural differences and require a special dialogue and action. First, forced marriage and then sexual mutilation. I am also pleased that a broad majority is now in favour of what the Foreign Law Selection has prescribed, simply a declaration of will. But it is now very important to ensure as good a dialogue as possible with the environment in question. It's no less important when we come to the very difficult and serious topic of sexual mutilation. It's a criminal act and an international dilemma. I have noticed that the Council of State has speculated that it needs to follow up a decision of the Committee to rule out whether clinical observation of genital organs should be part of the health checks. Let me point out that what is crucial in such an arrangement is to express both the views of health professionals on this, the experience they have so far, and a close dialogue with the immigrant community itself, those like this, so that they have the opportunity to make representations. And then it's not just useful to send someone out on the phone or something. In fact, it's important to look-up activities. The most important thing we can do in terms of inclusion and participation is to pursue an active enterprise policy, including promoting more entrepreneurs and focusing on language and education, on a community economy that ensures a good schooling, and also on a policy of equalisation to secure those groups that are currently overrepresented among those with low income. And then finally, when it comes to meeting places: I'm surprised that Erna Solberg so categorically rejects the work that the many immigrant organizations do. They have a special stand. They should have been able to expand their work, and they would need more resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1552	I do not reject all the good work that many immigrant organisations do, but I reject a view from the Central Party that all voluntary work should be solved with the 20 million. I believe that the cultural work of immigrants is cultural work. I believe that the sport of immigrants is sports. I believe that we need to get into the normalization situation that it is not that all the issues relating to minorities should be referred to specific schemes, but actually be part of the general universal arrangements. Then I have to say that I am a little confused about what I have heard from several speakers, and I have also seen a suggestion in the setting, where it says the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for the introduction of a mandatory declaration of will by all Norwegian nationals who are engaged in marriages in another country, in line with the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.’ There is no such proposal in the Foreign Law Committee. There is a proposal from the Human Right Service for a mandatory declaration of will, which Jens Stoltenberg has expressed far inside a larger interview in Pakistan. It's the only source we have for this. There is a considerable difference between what the Foreign Law Committee has proposed, which is a question of an interview with the Foreign Administration after returning to Norway before family reunification is granted – and which we have consulted, and where we come up with legislative changes if not too long – and the setting up of a new rule of validity, which will be a declaration of will. In practice, such a declaration of will would mean that we do not accept a marriage concluded abroad by a Norwegian citizen who has not received the declaration of will in advance. So it's a denial of marriage. So I would like to ask those parties, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, who are behind this proposal, for an interpretation of what they mean. Is that a statement of intent, or is it the proposal of the Foreign Law Committee for an interview they are talking about? So you can take that interview in advance, or you can clarify things. But there's something completely different, and there's two different things. I have to say that I feel willful as one of the rather difficult questions. For this means that Norway is completely negligent in accepting concluded marriages, even in addition to what is commonly known as ‘public order’. However, if this is a proposal to be interpreted in the same way as the Foreign Law Committee's proposal for an interview, I would encourage the government parties to vote in favour. For this we have to consult, and we're going to join in. So it's right there. But then this room has to be clearly informed that this is what the Foreign Affairs Act Committee has proposed about an interview situation, which is what you are considering. When it comes to the issue of clinical observation, we need to investigate it thoroughly. I've never regretted it. The idea that every girl in this country should be looked at repeatedly because we have a cross-sectional problem deeply worries me. This will mean that we have to have mandatory controls, and that we need to have criminal mechanisms in order to implement them, if it is to have any effect. The government assessed this in the context of the plan of action for interception, and said no, because we had a thoughtful view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1568	With regard to the Council of State's questions about declaration of will, it is true that what we mean and refer to is what the Foreign Law Committee has been in favour of. So then it might be clear. A few points in relation to the debate. First to the representative Holmberg, who says that it is a conceptual confusion when the Workers' Party proposes an introduction program for religious ministers. We didn't think this was going to be the same program as today's introduction program, but we thought the government would come back with a program like this. It's also funny when the same representative says that there have been several enquiries about forced marriage, and that there is a positive trend. That must be a negative trend. That means that despite the way of information and the law, we have failed to reach it, and forced marriage is still happening. Then to the representative Holmås. He says that the Workers' Party is not in favour of increased immigration. That's not right. Among other things, we have for an increase in UN quota refugees up to 1500 per year. years. What we are more restrictive about is increased labour immigration from outside the EEA until we see how the effects of EEA enlargements turn out. But there is one matter that has not been raised here. The Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre, has made a proposal distributed in the Chamber that child protection should take over the responsibility for the care of lone minor asylum seekers. The Progress Party has been in for too long. Now it turns out that they have turned around in this case and no longer believe the same thing. It again shows that the Progress Party is not to be trusted. It now appears that we are going to lose this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1579	It should be a matter of course that we do not make a difference between our children and the children of others when it comes to benefiting from the quality that child protection represents. A little about the long-term work on integration policy. SV is concerned that there has been a large number of shipper’s roofs so far. But that's kind of something you do, because now there's a lot of people, and then like that job is done. It's very important that it's not like that in the whole government. Governments instead mentioned Vietnamese people who have never learned Norwegian and who need help with the care of the elderly. It's like when we get old, we forget what we've learned last time. It means that sail if we're good at teaching people Norwegian, and they're good at learning Norwegian, maybe that language goes away when they get old. When you need help from home health care or get to a nursing home, you just have your mother tongue back. It's a challenge that municipalities have to take on board. I think a lot of municipalities have to cooperate on these measures if they're going to get this done. Finally, about genital mutilation. There's something very strange about the body. All parts of the body shall be assisted by the health care system and examined when one is in the health centre with a child — only not the sex organ of the girls. But the girls' sexual organs can actually be attacked, and it can be damaged, just like other parts of the body. Many Norwegian girls are also subjected to abuse by their closest — unfortunately, this is the case. This could have been discovered if we had a natural relationship that the doctor also examined this part of the body in girls and in women. Once again, it is also hanging in Norway: when we talk about this, it becomes a little difficult. No, this part of the body must not look at, because it becomes problematic for us. When health professionals – and we – have such attitudes, this continues to be a bigger problem than it is. I'll appeal to everyone now to explain to me what's the difference between this and all the other body parts to be checked. I saw a health sister being interviewed about this on TV. She said it would be very difficult if she were to ask a little girl to lie down and spread her legs because Mom and Dad might have done something wrong with her. Excuse me! When doctors and other health professionals pee into the ears of children, they don't say: I must be allowed to look into your ear because Mom and Dad may have done something wrong with it. That is not how this should be handled. The whole body is natural, and it's as natural that you have a health examination of that part of the body as of other parts of the body. Actually, I think the girls' bodies deserve it. It deserves Norwegian girls – all girls deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1592	There are 30 000 teenage children born in Norway every year. It is well possible that normal four-year controls can check whether there are genital or other injuries, but it is not possible to detect, for example, in the light of a clinical observation of sexual organs. assault. The probability of assaulting many families if you start that process is very high. The other important thing is that if this is an action against sexual mutilation, it is by far the fewest cultures that practice sexual mutilation before the four-year control — they practice it later. Of course, they will wait until after the four-year check to carry out sexual mutilation, if they know that it is being checked – or they do not meet at the four-year check. Then there are the questions: How many times will Norwegian girls have to check the substituent on mandatory controls to ensure that there is an effective response to sexual harassment? And what sanctions should be implemented? Some parents don't think it's right that the public should do this, and just shift the time and do it a little bit later. Is that every time you're in school? Should all school controls be mandatory? How much resources are we going to spend on that? When I ask these questions, it's because the government had this round before we made the action plan against sexual injury. We found out that this was a measure that we would not recommend. And then we didn't even talk about everyone, we talked about the exposed girls, because they would also be stigmatized. In fact, you think that you don't just get into a situation where more — for example. Somali girls, because this is perceived as a violent pressure against them – are dumped in the home country as an answer to that kind of attitude? I think we're fighting these things through several other measures. But I also think that there is a limit to how many measures you can take for absolutely everyone in our population – at the expense of the bloating skills and integrity of each child, not least the longer in the teens they come – to regulate and prevent mutilation practiced in some cultures. I just want to say one thing about coercion. It is quite possible to hang in a few individual measures, such as the Oslo collective. The action we have established on the home page is a cooperation between the big cities within our housing measures, with emergency aid, and where we move on to people in cooperation with the police and the relief organisations. It works. We have some problems in Oslo, but it works in the other places. Some of the voluntary organisations have actually said that this collective cannot be used, because it is no longer working in terms of safety. Everyone knew where it was, and then they had a security problem related to the use of the collective. It's not always that reading the papers and making policies on it – instead of perhaps asking what else to do – is the right approach to this. We do a lot in the area of coercion. We still have something left, and certainly a lot to discover and learn, but it's not like it's standing and falling with a collective in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31.ana.ud2184e1607	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Three, four, five. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. [[See page 2521]] The size pauses until the evening meeting starts at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
