ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e60	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Grethe Fossli. – Other proposals are not available, and Grethe Fossli is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meetings today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e76	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e81	This is a relatively curative matter, with a great deal of consensus. This will be reflected in the comments in the Odelstinget setting today. I am therefore not going to keep any long posts to elaborate on these remarks. They are clear and clear – and talk about a broad consensus in this area. The only thing you can trace is that the Progress Party and SV want a case to the Stortinget where you will review the disclosure obligations rules, in the context of what already exists in legislation. I am addressing this proposal on behalf of the two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e90	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e110	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Advance Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e117	First, as the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for having shown great flexibility in a very complicated matter that concerns many, and then I would like to thank the Presidency, which gave the Committee something to do. This has been a complicated matter. I'm not even sure if it belongs in our committee, but now it's here – a new law on the collection of contributions. And last, but not least, I would like to thank the Department and the Council of State, who have shown great willingness to find solutions to a complicated matter. That there was a need for a new collection law, there was little doubt about it. Major changes have been made in the contribution schemes, and in the past, the old law of 1955 has been patched up a number of times. So that you get a new and modern law adapted to both modern society and the changes that have already taken place in the grant scheme, you will probably be welcomed with great pleasure both by lawyers and by the Social Security Agency's collection centre. Much has changed from 1955 until today. One of the changes to the new law is to strengthen the scope for collection in cases where contributors have the greatest opportunity to avoid the obligation to contribute, i.e. in matters involving self-employed persons or where contributors work in a family business without receiving a salary. Now I have to hurry to stress that the vast majority of contributors make up for themselves. That's why you've now taken the line of the legislator that those who neglect their obligations to their children should no longer be able to do this. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of SV, is pleased that it is not now added to the public obligation to require contributions in cases where the parties did not live together at the birth of the child. It shows that even the public has the belief that people who have a common child are able to make agreements, even though they do not live together. The Committee is very pleased that it has been legislated that low-paying contributors are given the opportunity to enter into payment arrangements for amounts due. From my years as a debtor adviser, I know that this has been a problem in the past, and that this can relieve the burden on many low-paying contributors. I will again stress that the vast majority will fulfill their obligations, but when the ability fails, it may seem almost invincible. Therefore, the Committee is confident that the possibility of a payment scheme for those with low payment capacity also increases the willingness to pay. A majority of the Committee opposes the possibility under § 36(d) of the draft law to provide for the possibility of introducing fees in connection with the collection of contributions, despite the fact that it is not clear how these charges are to be recovered. The major contribution reform is to be evaluated for the autumn, and if it is then considered that there is a need for it because the scale of the levy is so large that it can be an instrument for collecting the money, then this should be provided in the context of this evaluation and not at this stage. I see that the Council of State has entered the hall. I don't think the Council of State heard that I thanked him for finding excellent solutions to some of the challenges we had in connection with this law. I just wanted to repeat that. By also making some clarifications in the third paragraph of Section 11 and the third paragraph of Section 21, the Committee makes it clear what is the intention of disclosure and makes it easier to understand the collection of spouses, cohabitants and other close family members. Nevertheless, the Progress Party wants to be even clearer in its formulation, so that there is no slightest doubt about what is meant. Therefore, the Progress Party has its own proposal concerning the third paragraph of Section 11, which states that the collection and disclosure requirement ‘applies only if there are particular grounds for suspecting that the related party or parties are contributing to the failure of the contribution obligation’. This is to ensure that these paragraphs are not used to ‘snake’ in the economic conditions of others. Nor can the progress party agree that the recovery centre of the Social Security Agency should be able to extend the set-off in respect of claims owed by the contributors to the public. I want to make it clear that this is the extension we disagree with. The danger is that you can put contributors in an unsustainable situation by offsetting pensions and social security, especially because you often have to get money from the social security office pending a social security decision. As is well known, the length of the procedure for obtaining a social security decision is one year away, and one year at the absolute minimum means that what you receive in social security also provides an opportunity to do things that you have not had the opportunity to obtain as long as you have gone to social assistance. It's to a large extent men who suffer this blow, men who, first of all, deal badly with a break in life, and who then often get into some sort of mental disability -- I say often, I don't always say. This can also have the effect of getting into a debt drain. It is important that it takes this into account publicly and does not contribute to worsening the situation so that it is ultimately not possible for the contributor to have contact with his children, because there is no room in the economy for it. It may be most difficult to offset subsidies to industrial activities, which are a prerequisite for the ability of contributors to pay contributions at all. The Progress Party will warn against public contribution to creating difficult situations for people. I am promoting the proposal of this Advance Party in the matter and signal that we want to vote against Section 14, second paragraph, cf. Paragraph 22, second paragraph, and the second paragraph of Section 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e149	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, has taken up the proposals of the Progress Party. The President expects the Council of State to be able to get praise twice in the same article.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e154	The 1955 law on the collection of contributions is ripe for change. There is little doubt that this legal modernisation has been needed to bring the collection rules more into line with the reality of the day. But I have to agree with the rapporteur when she says that this has been a very complicated matter. At the same time, I would like to commend the Council of State, which has had very good cooperation with the Committee, so that we have dealt with this matter properly. The proposed changes are a small step towards securing the children affected by a lack of willingness to pay. The number of life crimes and the number of beneficiaries has increased dramatically since the law was introduced in 1955. At the same time, new rules on contributions have led to increased use of private contracts and private schemes. Unfortunately, it is a fact that some contributors do not want to pay contributions for their children, and they go a long way to avoid this. It is important for the Right to point out that the purpose of making the collection more effective is to ensure that the children have the entertainment they require under the Children’s Act. It is therefore important to note that the target audience for the legislative changes is contributors who have the ability to pay but not the willingness to pay. Fortunately, a minority of contributors are trying to avoid their financial obligations towards their own children. The more important it is then to ensure that the law does not have loopholes where this is possible. Avoidance of the contribution obligation is unacceptable, and we therefore support the intensifications that these amendments we are adopting today. If family members are suspected of contributing to the discharge of their obligations by each contributor, we consider it right and reasonable to extend access to the collection of contributions in such a way that they also apply to cohabitants and close relatives. It is important to point out that this should be the case only when the related person acts as an employer and there is information in the case that gives rise to suspicion. Once again, I would like to remind you that the changes in the law are being made to increase the willingness to pay the contributors who have the finances to support their children. The Government's proposed amendments involve both simplification and modernisation of the existing legislation, while strengthening those who are unjustly trying to avoid their contribution. All of these changes are considered very reasonable and to be a good adaptation to the reality of the day. I'm taking up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e169	The representative of Afghan Rafiq has then addressed the Right-wing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e172	I would also like to commend the Council of State for having been so helpful, so that the Committee and the Council of State have together come to a law that we now believe is very good. It is good that the Contribution Recovery Act is now being modernised, and that simple steps are being taken to streamline the collection of contributions. Amount of the contribution per year On December 31, 2003, the figure was over DKK 3 billion. It's a significant amount, and it's unacceptable not to pay children's contributions. This affects many children. The child’s right to depend is not adequately guaranteed. The proposal strengthens the scope for recovery in cases where the contributor has the greatest opportunity to avoid the obligation to contribute, i.e.: in matters involving self-employed persons. The aim is to counteract evasion by the fact that contributors appear to work without being paid. Access to the collection of contributions is proposed to extend to cohabitants and close relatives other than their parents. If other members of the family are suspected of contributing to the non-compliance of the contributor, it is reasonable that access to the levy should be extended to that group. It is important to signal that avoidance of the contribution obligation is unacceptable. Avoidance will often cause children to suffer worse financially. It seems reasonable to us when we now change the rules, to extend ‘near relatives’ to in-law parents. Many remarry, and there is reason to believe that parents-in-law, in line with parents, can see it appropriate to help the contributor avoid payment of contributions. We therefore propose to extend the definition of ‘near relatives’ by ‘parents’ in the last paragraph of Section 3. SV will vote against the amendments to Section 5 that the requirement of mandatory public collection in cases where the parties have not lived together at the birth of the child is deleted. We still want it to be a mandatory public collection, because these are issues where there is often a high level of conflict, and we believe that the current law is doing well. It is always the child who loses at a high level of conflict among parents, and there is reason to believe that there is more conflict where parents do not live together at birth than where their parents live together. SV also opposes the introduction of a payment service fee. A fee has already been introduced for the establishment and modification of contributions, and this has also been voted against by the Swedish authorities. We therefore believe that point (d) of Section 36 must go out. We cannot see that this is appropriate, it will only be an extra load in an already locked situation. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e185	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e188	Crime is a challenge both for adults and for the children involved, and for society as a whole. The increase in the number of broken lives must be met by an offensive policy that focuses on children’s needs. Many single parents have a strenuous economy and a demanding everyday life. They struggle to get the time to work with children, jobs and housework. Then it is particularly important that the parent who does not have the daily care contributes both time and money. Several governments have worked to complete the comprehensive proposal for new rules on contributions. After wide consultation, the final proposal was submitted to the Stortinget in March 2001. The proposal for a new child benefit scheme was adopted by the Stortinget in June of that year. The new rules on the establishment of child contributions are based on the cost of having a child, the income of both parents and the amount of association with the child. Since these changes were controversial and it was also difficult at the time to predict whether the legislation could have unintended consequences, the Christian People's Party already called for the evaluation of the new rules at committee level after a period of time. Despite a clearly more effective contribution collection than before, the contribution debt has remained approximately the same in the number of kroner. These are significant amounts per year. On 31 December 2003, the total contribution debt was over DKK 3 billion. Most people willingly pay the child’s contribution, knowing that this is for the child’s best. However, a few people are trying to avoid the obligation to contribute, and these have to face the reactions of society. The child needs both mother and father to stand up, even after a breakup. It is unacceptable that some people try to cheat away. Here Christian People's Party will put their feet down for the sake of children. Those who do not want to pay contributions for their children are often willing to go far to avoid this. Fortunately, a normal employee has little opportunities to avoid the obligation to contribute. Wages and salaries are reduced, and only very frequent shifts in employment can lead to the avoidance of the obligation to contribute. On the other hand, for self-employed persons the situation is different. There is no permanent employer to pay off – the remuneration comes from various teams, and the collection centre will often be late. A self-employed person who will not pay contributions will be able to find different ways to avoid this, and various examples of this have been seen in practice. This type of exclusion is the cause of a disproportionate share of the contribution debt. It is particularly easy to avoid contributions by cooperating with parents and spouses. The Christian People's Party will help to secure the children affected by a lack of willingness to pay, a maintenance in accordance with the finances of both parents. The target group of proposals promoted in this proposition is contributors who have the ability to pay but not the willingness to pay. The legislative proposal extends the right to collect contributions from only parents and spouses to cohabitants and close relatives other than parents. However, it shall continue to be a pre-requisite that contributors work in the business of those persons in circumstances which would normally lead to the payment of remuneration. Access to the levy applies only if there are grounds for suspecting that the related person or persons contribute to the non-compliance of the contribution obligation. The law adopted today is primarily a simplification and modernisation of today's rules. The new measures focus in particular on increasing the willingness to pay for debtors who have the financial capacity to support their children but who do not want to pay. The main purpose of the proposal is to make the collection of child contributions more effective than at present, thus ensuring that the children affected by non-payment willingness are entertained in accordance with both parents’ finances. This deserves the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e211	The centre agrees that some steps are being taken to streamline the collection of contributions, including: to limit the possibility of avoiding the obligation to contribute. The levying of contributions must always have the best interests of children in mind, while ensuring the legal certainty of contributors and beneficiaries. Today, the collection of contributions can also be directed to parents or spouses when contributors work in the company of those persons. The Centre Party considers that cohabitants must be subject to the same legislation as spouses in this field and therefore supports the extension of access to the levy to cohabitants. It is important to clarify that this access applies only if there are particular grounds for suspecting that the related person or persons contribute to the neglect of the contribution obligation. Unlike the other parties, however, we believe that it is too far to propose that this right of collection be extended to the children, grandchildren, grandparents, siblings, uncle, aunt, nephew and niece. We also support the proposal for an extended disclosure obligation, so that, in the event of suspicion of avoidance, information from the tax authority and from whom it can be legally collected may now be required, and not only information about and from the contributor himself. The centre party also agrees with the proposal to extend access to the set-off of contributions to claims made by contributors to the general government, such as grants for industrial activities, re-payment of pensions and various social benefits from social security. On the other hand, we do not support the proposal to allow the parties to charge fees in connection with the payment service, for example. because a fee has already been introduced for the establishment and modification of contributions. Then I take up the proposal of the Centre Party that is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e224	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e230	The proposal for a new law on the collection of contributions is mainly aimed at simplifying and modernising the rules in this area. Some changes are also proposed to strengthen the recovery potential. We have paid particular attention to measures in the few, but difficult cases where contributors do not want to pay, and at the same time have the opportunity to avoid payment. I am pleased that the Committee broadly supports the Government's proposals, and for the good cooperation that has been in the process of dealing with the matter. The Committee shall focus, inter alia, on: on the collection of related persons in cases where contributors work in the business of such persons, apparently free of charge. These are purely exceptional cases and the Committee proposes amendments to the legislative proposal which underlines this. The extensions at this point are important for the children waiting for contributions. For the same reason, I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal for extended access to offset contributions to the public claims of contributors. I noticed that the number of committees is against the proposal to establish the basis of the law for a fee in connection with the collection of contributions. You go in order that in this case this should be dealt with as a matter of your own. I agree that there is a need to see the fee for the collection in connection with the fee scheme when determining and amending contributions. The requirement behind the legislative proposal has always been that in the event of a fee scheme, a detailed investigation should be carried out and sent to the general hearing. The removal of the home from the bill will therefore not pose any particular problems. Finally, I would like to point out that the new law does not only target the contributor in a restrictive direction, but also contains important proposals for the protection of people with low paying ability. In particular, I mention the new possibilities for a dialogue with contributors to establish a good payment scheme, and the clarification of the ability of contributors to appeal decisions during the collection process. I feel confident that the new Bill of Contributions will provide the Insurance Agency with a better basis for carrying out the important and good work that the Recovery Agency has been set up to do: to ensure that children in divided families are entertained in accordance with both parents' economy and living standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e244	The President notes that the Council of State has received so much praise that several of the proposers have refused to make their proposals – but they have now been promoted. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 392]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e262	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e269	The background to this issue is primarily a new EU directive. The new Directive requires Norway to implement the definition of ‘aid for illegal entry, transit and residence’. At the same time, due to the Directive, Norway is also encouraged to strengthen the criminal law framework, in order to prevent aid for illegal entry, transit and residence. In addition, the Government has proposed that an additional restriction be introduced for the UN to convert the decision to favor the foreigner. The Committee broadly supports the proposals under consideration, with some exceptions that I believe the respective parties will explain themselves. Intensification of the definition of ‘aid for illegal immigration, transit and residence’ is intended to improve European coordination and practice in such cases. The EU definition of what qualifies for illegal entry, transit and residence is more stringent than current legislation, and also focuses more on hitting the backers of the organised networks. Since these networks operate independently of national borders, it is important to synchronise the legal provisions, in particular with regard to the precise definition of the infringement in question and the derogations provided for in the Directive, which is backed by a co-ordinated committee. In the light of this, the Committee also endorses the proposal to remove the requirement that assistance to illegal immigration must have been committed in order for it to be punishable. According to the police, such a change will make it much easier to combat illegal immigration. The Committee further supports the Government that assistance for illegal entry covered by the criminal provisions should not be limited to aid for entry into the Schengen territory only, but should also apply to assistance for illegal immigration which does not have a Schengen country as its final destination. Thus, with regard to the proposal involving those persons who, on the basis of humanitarian aid, illegally help people into the country, the Government, probably under pressure from humanitarian organisations, suggests that one cannot punish those who are behind illegal immigration if they have helped the foreigner to enter the first safe country. The progress party here indicates that the existing emergency legal provision is sufficient. In the context of the EU Directive, the EU has also taken a framework decision that clearly encourages Norway to set the penalty framework for serious human trafficking issues at eight years. In spite of this, the Government and the majority of the Committee therefore propose to maintain the six-year penalty framework for serious cases, because they want to maintain the coherence of national legislation. So here it is a majority of the committee that supports the Government. However, the Progress Party believes that the coherence of national legislation in this area must give way to stricter criminal responses to trafficking in human beings. In the same case, the Government proposes to limit UNE's powers to convert negative decisions into favour of the non-resident, in the absence of a situation as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 15 of the Foreign Affairs Act, international obligations requiring the conversion, or in particular strong human considerations. This proposal is justified by the fact that today there has been a tendency for all those who are refused to do so to appeal, irrespective of the reasons for the refusal. This results in unnecessary additional work for UNE and a training of the applicant’s broadcast. A majority of the Committee, but a minority in the Chamber, opposes the Government's proposals in this area. I just want to close briefly by promoting the proposals the Progress Party is standing alone or with others about in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e295	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e298	The Workers' Party supports the Government both in defining assistance for illegal entry, transit and residence, and in terms of penalties. However, with regard to the proposal to limit UNE's ability to grant conversion requests, the Workers' Party does not agree with the Government. The material conditions relating to international obligations and protection needs are proposed to be maintained as today, but the wording of the law for other matters is proposed to be changed from ‘special human interests’ to ‘particularly strong human interests’. Statistics for 2002 show that about 15 pst. of all the cases received by UNE were conversion requests. For the whole of 13 p.m. by the cases, the decision was re-examined. There is no doubt that the number of requests for conversion has increased considerably. The working party considers it important to bear in mind that, in foreign affairs, the situation may change rapidly following a final decision, for example: through a clearly worsening situation, or through a life-threatening disease. In such cases, it is important to have a new access to the case testing. The Labour Party believes that the right to apply for asylum is absolute. On the one hand, if we are to put an end to the abuse of the institution of asylum, on the other hand, we must ensure the legal certainty of those in need of protection. I would also like to remind you that although many people are asking for conversion, despite the fact that there has been little or no change in the facts since the final decision was taken, it is a fact that 13 pst. the facts are actually being re-examined. There is also reason to note that the number of asylum applications has almost halved in the last year. This means that the number of long-term requests for conversion will also be reduced. The working party considers that the current strict practice of «strong human interests» should not be tightened up further. By further tightening up, we will be able to experience the paradox that in a case where UNE is critical of the application of «strong human interests» in a complaint, the complaint will not be able to be reversed – even if they would agree with the criticism after a new assessment – because the criterion will now be reinforced to «particularly strong human interests». The working party opposes such tightening. We believe that we need to be careful about making further sanctions, in the interests of the legal certainty of asylum seekers. This word ‘in particular’ involves a very dramatic change, which will have a number of negative consequences and, in particular, will affect several vulnerable groups. I'll mention someone, for example. families with children who have remained in Norway after final rejection, often combined with different forms of physical or mental health problems. This is contrary to the system adopted by a unanimous committee for families with children last summer. Where is the Left, and where is the Christian People's Party in this matter? The Municipal Committee then introduced a special scheme for these children, because they did not stay according to current practice. With the addition that will now be made tonight with support from the government parties and the Progress Party, it will be even more stringent. In other words, the legal protection of these children will be drastically weakened by this proposal. Other examples are women who have been assaulted and who first tell about the abuses long after, for different reasons. But then the threshold for granting asylum will be higher. Finally, the Labour Party considers that the main means of avoiding groundless requests for conversion will be to streamline the procedure, in combination with the effective deportation of applicants who have received a final refusal to apply for asylum, not to make a narrow and narrower approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e328	Major travel activities characterise the world in which we live, and borders are increasingly crossed. This is a good thing, but it also brings great challenges. Not least in the field of immigration, we see the need for coordination and cooperation with the countries around us. The legislative changes now proposed in the Foreign Affairs Act are the result of an EU directive to improve European coordination and practice in trafficking-related issues, in order to avoid creating a place of refuge for the backers of the criminal networks behind human smuggling. Too often, such cases are revealed. People in need are being cynically exploited. It's the worst thing about human smuggling. However, it is also worrying that both the institution of asylum and the regulation of immigration generally become discredited when the scope of human trafficking is large. It is therefore important to strengthen the regulatory framework in order to facilitate the fight against these activities and to enable them to be hard hit on the backers. Since today's law makes demands that the trafficking of human beings must have taken place in order for it to be punishable, we believe in the Right that it is right to tighten up the legislation by removing the requirement of the intention to win. We will thus remove possible loopholes for criminal prosecution. Nor do we accept human trafficking outside the Schengen area, and support the fact that the criminal provisions also comply with this. To have to escape is a tragedy. Wicked and dramatic human ships are behind. It's not hard to understand that many will help people who are on the run. However, such humanitarian aid must not be confused with human smuggling, which is punishable. Rightly, today we have an emergency legal order that can be used to distinguish these matters. However, the right wishes to have an exceptional provision for humanitarian aid. But it is important to design the derogation so that it cannot be misused and thereby weaken the fight against human smuggling. The Directive requires a minimum penalty of eight years. This does not oblige us. We can assess this in relation to our own national legislation. It is the context of our national criminal law that is why, in this case, we will rather maintain the penalty framework of six years. There has been no lack of media attention in the field of Foreign Affairs lately. One would think that some had not come to realize that UNE has actually been evaluated quite recently, and that UNE's proceedings have been approved as such. Legal certainty is well maintained in the ordinary review procedure. It should by no means be obvious that the foreigner has a legitimate need to have a final decision reviewed. In fact, a person should ask himself some questions as to why so many encourage UNE to use its competence to reverse the original decision. Complaints have almost been automatic as long as possible. When UNE refuses conversion in 87 pst. of the cases, it must be timely to limit the possibilities of conversion requests to those cases where there are circumstances under Section 15 of the Foreign Affairs Act or where ‘particularly strong human interests’ so require or, where appropriate, as a result of the necessary international rules. The right-hand side also supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e347	This case has two sides that are quite different, but still are very closely linked. On the one hand, we are now making it easier for human traffickers to be judged by changes in this law. That's very good. The rationale for doing this is two-way. One is that we want to end human trafficking, the other is that we and the Government will knock down organized human smuggling as part of international organized crime. The way we do it is multiples. So let's do that. To a much greater extent criminal offences for people who expose refugees to life threatening situations, and that is very good. It's a very important thing we do in Stortinget today, because this has many tragic consequences around different places in the world. It's just to look at the boats that go over Gibraltar, and it's just to look at the refugees that are housed in containers because they've paid a lot of money to human traffickers, and then they've died on the road. It's very good that we're doing the grips here today. But the consequence of doing these things the way the government proposes, and the majority of people in this room are in favour, is that it is also becoming more difficult to help refugees get to Norway. In this way, the decisions we are making today are included in the major policy change that is taking place across Europe, where we are tightening up and making it more difficult and difficult to find the way to Europe as a refugee. Earlier today, we heard in another debate on visas about how visa legislation has been tightened up, making it more difficult and difficult to get legally. It has happened over the past few years – a unanimous committee wrote it in its position. We have also joined a Schengen acquis, which makes us a part of cooperation, where we know that there are very strong forces within the EU countries that contribute to this policy that makes it more difficult and difficult for refugees to actually come to Europe. We are part of that policy. A law is now being passed, for example: It is a criminal offence to help people who are refugees to come to Norway, unless Norway is the first safe country they come to. Anyone who knows a little about refugee flows to Norway — both the Minister and the municipal committee — knows that very large percentages of them choose routes where Norway is not the first country. If you bring a visa to Norway, Norway is of course the first country. Crossing the border from Russia is, of course, the first country. But otherwise very many of the roads go to seek asylum in Norway through other countries. Then, in my opinion, it is really bad that we are now creating a code that makes it criminal to help people get to Norway. I would have liked to challenge Per Sandberg on what he would think if I helped a political opposition from Cuba to Norway. If this was one thing that was planned and about which one cooperated, this was one thing that could initially lead to him being punished by this new law. I don't think that's good. I don't think that's good at all. But while we're doing this, we're making it difficult for the people who've come to Norway and applied for asylum to stay here. The tightening up of the concept of ‘strong human considerations’ to ‘very strong human considerations’ is a narrowing of which we do not know the consequences. I think that in the case papers that have been submitted to us, to a very small extent, it is problematic how many people there are among the 13 pst. who are allowed to stay after conversion requests – i.e. how many of the 13 pst. which in fact would no longer be allowed to remain with the new legislation introduced. That's where I end up in full with the considerations that Signe Eye put in place. We support all the proposals that make it criminal to engage in organized trafficking in human beings, just to get rid of it, and organized crime through human trafficking in order to have it. But we are in order to be able to have a much greater opportunity for people to help people seek refugee status in Norway. Because the policy we are now pursuing leads to more refugees coming into the hands of traffickers, and no one is serving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e364	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e367	I will admit that I found this matter difficult. The word ‘human smuggling’ is used to refer to the most brutal and inhuman exploitation of poor world citizens, and at the same time it can mean an unprofitable, compassionate help for a person in need. The war of its frontier losers was in the last category, but there is no doubt that the description of their actions, as lifeguards for Yugoslavians, for Russians as well as for Jews and Northmen, would have been quite another if World War II had had another legend. It actually sometimes comes to the eye that sees. It is important that those who help man in need, persecuted man, should not be punished. The law is, of course, such that the law is applicable. No one is to be prosecuted for humanitarian aid. But I cannot escape the idea that there will be an ever-neighbourhood to be approved as a frontier-free entry into the Schengen area. The Christian People's Party was also opposed to Norway becoming part of Schengen, and thus in some way the EU's outer border, in its time. Afterwards, the world has only been more difficult and the level of control has increased. So I'll go a little bit over to the second part of this thing. It's also a little bit difficult. It's a law change that applies to UNE. It's simply that getting bows, pauses, work breaks, or whatever, in Norway is like a happiness to count for many of the world's underprivileged human beings. Therefore, it is not strange that most of those who get no use the appeal body that is available. They used the ministry so that the burden on the state councils responsible for foreign affairs was unimaginably high. Then we created UNE, and then the pressure moved there. The modification currently proposed is not as big. To replace ‘special human considerations’ with ‘particularly strong human considerations’ is hardly decisive. The descriptions given to me by complainants have been particularly strong, inhuman, hair-removing and actually cruel. The problem for the complainant has been that he or she has not been trusted that one has viewed the persecution as a common crime, that one has assessed the situation in the home country quite differently from what the asylum seeker thought was right. All descriptions have been more than particularly strong – with torture, dictation, imprisonment, imprisonment, death threats, harassment, attempted murder etc., osb. There are actually no limits! The problem for the asylum seeker is rarely § 38(b) or (c), but the possibility of documenting. It's bad that everyone, including those who should never have come here and applied for a break, anchor. This means that those who should have received a new assessment, those who have new moments, those who have provided documentation, and those who should be here, perhaps not heard, are not seen or taken into consideration. I hope that this little change can reduce the queue, but I really don't believe it. Nevertheless, I recommend the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e386	The central party's view when it comes to human smuggling is shown in the setting. We are quite clear on measures against organised trafficking in human beings and organised crime, but we think the proposal is too tight when it comes to averting the fact that people are helping to seek asylum in Norway. Then, in the Central Party, we disagree with the proposal that has taken place, and as a liability for demarcation in the Foreign Study, the possibility of converting final negative decisions. We disagree in the wording of the change, from ‘special human considerations’ to ‘especially strong human concerns’. I find reason to stress that from different sources, from many organisations as well as from case handlers themselves, there is a call for an in-depth study of the topic of ‘special human interests’. It is all too obvious that the relationship between matters in UDI and UNE would be different if UDI had had a more in-depth law, a more clarifying guide to stick to when they were going to deal with the issues where one could use ‘special human considerations’. We have called for such an extension several times. We see that the Council of State now, with time and time, is going to evaluate this closer, after the Foreign Law Selection has also suggested it. But in the meantime, the government is coming with this change. The central party is in agreement with the Labour Party and SV in saying that the two main instruments to avoid baseless calls for conversion are to streamline the procedure and to streamline the transport of applicants who have received a final rejection of the asylum application. It is also true that if more people had the opportunity to put things forward, one could also, in a completely different way from today, have had the opportunity in a previous round to look at all the sides of a case. Over Easter we come to the matter of Ot.prp. No 31 back to other aspects of the foreign student's business. It might be desirable to see all of this that applies to UNE, in context. I just want to say now that even if UNE has been evaluated, and even if one has read the evaluations from the opposition's page, and also suggests that the department has read the evaluation that has been made, the department uses the freedom that they naturally have to choose which of the proposals from the Evaluation Committee they will follow up. And they are sadly supported by what they propose, by the Right Party and the Advance Party, but also – surprisingly – by the Christian People's Party, which has faced a different vision in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e407	The chairperson of the Committee used the opportunity to speak on a matter to which the Committee has voted today and, as I know, on 19 April. I just want to draw attention to the fact that all the great grips from the evaluation have actually been followed up, and the legal lies in the treatment that comes on 19 April. Otherwise, some cases are being dealt with, including: are important assessments where we also need to have other supervisory bodies in place to achieve full objectives in the field of procedural law. I do not want it hanging in the air that we do not follow up the proposals. We have also summed this up in a letter to the chairman of the committee. Those who see that letter will also see that the main follow-up is inside and sent to Stortinget. Let me say in the context of the odelstningsproposition we're dealing with right now, that it's right that there are two different things. One issue concerns the Schengen human trafficking directive. There is no doubt that human smuggling today in large parts of the world is part of organized crime. Being tight with human smuggling in general also means being tighter and cutting down on sources of income within organised crime, which are not just about asylum seekers, but which are equally concerned with trafficking in people, for example. girls in trafficking, smuggled weapons, and smuggled drugs. All of this is related, and in many places it's the same economic environments that contribute to it. It is important that we have a joint work within Schengen to prevent these environments from getting foothold. They go anywhere where there's money to pick up. With these kinds of rules, we might make it a little less favourable, because the punishment if you're taken is considerably higher. It is also the case that, after the consultation round, the government has made an emergency decision, because we have seen that there is a need for a small air gap. It is a strict emergency provision, but it is an emergency provision that is clearer than the general emergency right of access to the first country of asylum. In the asylum policy, the starting point is that it is in the first safe country you come to, you must seek asylum. That is what the right of asylum is essentially about. It's not that you can decide exactly which country in the world you're going to seek asylum. In principle, it is the first country of asylum. The entire Schengen cooperation is based on the need to secure a country where you are not at risk of being persecuted or returned to a country where you may be persecuted. I think this sloppy piece is important. I mean, for example. that there is no humanitarian reason to smuggle people from Sweden to Norway who may have already had their asylum application rejected, because they disagree politically with the rejection and a different view of it. Then we go far beyond what I think is emergency law, and what is supposed to be kind of narrow humanitarian pieces. As regards the question of conversion requests, I would like to say that I fully agree with what is stated in the comments, and as has also been said here from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, that it is important to streamline the procedure. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this measure is a measure to streamline the procedure. This is one of the big problems. UNE has a long time to deal with because they have to deal with and review a number of issues in which false hopes are given, without new information or the basis for hope. The result we hope to get is that the issues in which there is really new information, where there is really a changed situation, come to light. The other things you have to stop submitting to UNE, based on the fact that they are impossible. It can be better informed about that. There are also a few things in the comments that I am responding to. First of all, it seems that there is some misunderstanding when you say that you get a higher threshold for consent if a case is disclosed sufficiently afterwards through a request for conversion. If a case is not sufficiently disclosed, the decision shall not be valid. Then it is not a request for conversion, but it is a new decision that is taken, based on the fact that the case has actually been re-examined, because the original decision is not valid. It is important to be clear that the difference between valid and not valid decisions is due to new information, and that which is a request for a re-examination of the case, but where a valid decision is initially taken, based on the fact that the case has been well informed in the first round. The other thing I see is that you say you're going to conflict with the intentions of staying with those who can reasonably rely on the need for protection. I don't think that's the way it is. In fact, the UN may reverse its refusal if the foreigner is able to fear persecution, as referred to in the Refugee Convention, or is in the immediate danger of losing his life or being subjected to inhuman treatment. It will not be possible to reject requests for conversion containing the type of information or the type of situation description.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 398]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e444	Since the rapporteur for the matter, Ivar Østberg, has a seat in Lagtinget, the President gives the floor to Anita Apelthun Seele.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e447	Ivar Østberg is the spokesman for the case, but he has no seat in Odelstinget, so I am his'stand in'. The voting system for the Sameting as it stands today leads to very large differences in the number of persons and the number of votes behind each representative. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is positive that the Government is now proposing to do something about this. We're setting up a system of four anti-aliasing mandates, which are going to electors with the most approved votes in the election. The combination has experienced increasingly weaker women's representation. To try to do something about this, the Sameting has entered into a reservation for the underrepresented sex, with a barrier limit of 4 pst. The Christian People's Party believes that it is unfortunate that women are underrepresented in the Sametinget. It is therefore important that the Sameting works actively to get more women in. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party and the other government parties believe that one should not regulate by law the sex constitution of a popular body such as the Sameeting. In our view, the parties themselves have to take responsibility for ensuring a better gender balance in the election lists. A scheme where sub-representation man data is reserved for the under-represented sex will, first of all, not be sufficient to ensure real equality. On the contrary, it may become a sleep cushion. Instead of actively raising women's representation at the top of the whale lists, a person can lean back and show that the anti-aliasing data ensures that women come in. But 4 out of 39 mandates are far from good enough! Secondly, it is problematic to regulate the gender representation in a popular body. There is reason to remember that we have not had such arrangements for any other choice. One of the parties has worked to get more women as list tops, and even if we are not quite in goals, either in the municipalities or on the Stortinget – far from the goal – this is a responsibility for the vast majority of the parties at least. In addition, it is important that we look at the other ways in which the options for the Sameting can be changed, in order to make it easier to get more women in. For example, since men are particularly overrepresented in the first place in the electoral lists, most of the lists have only one mandate. increasing the size of the value bar to allow more women to enter. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Government has moved in so that the electoral rules can now be expanded so that any changes can be made before the 2009 elections. It is unfortunate, in our opinion, if local lists with a large resolution are to be excluded locally from the assignment of a dithering mandate. So we don't want to introduce a barrier limit to the system. The Labour Party states in its observations that the Sameting itself shall determine its own electoral rules. It's a tempting thought, but we think it's the Stortinge who has to take ultimate responsibility for the design of all the electoral rules in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e468	The majority of the Municipal Committee has previously pointed out that the electoral system for the Sameting should ensure greater consistency between the votes and the number of representatives elected. In the past, the majority of the Committee has also stressed that it is unfortunate that there is such a low level of women’s representation in the Sameting. And here we've also seen a negative development, which is a reason to point out, and there's a reason, not least, to stress the importance of facilitating it, both on the part of the parties and on the part of the authorities, so that you can get a more uniform gender representation. It should be noted that the Sameting wanted to remedy these conditions by introducing balancing mandates and that the balancing mandates should be reserved for the underrepresented sex until reaching 40 p.m. representation from both sexes. The basic question of principle that needs to be considered today is precisely whether the Storing is the best fit to assess what is most representative of the Sami population or whether it is the Sami population itself who has to decide what is most representative of the population. The Labour Party considers, for its part, that, with regard to issues relating to the voting system for the Sameting, including issues relating to the delimitation of voting rights, electoral division, the distribution of mandates and also the issue of equalisation mandates, the barrier limit and measures to ensure a smoother representation of the sexes, it is in principle right for the Sami population to decide for itself, through their elected bodies. The Workers' Party therefore believes that the basic objective of bringing together, through the Sameting, to decide for itself on matters relating in particular to the Sami population is best achieved by allowing the Sameeting itself to have authority over these issues, even though the formal decision must of course be taken here in the Stortinget. In line with this, the working party has joined the Sameting proposal to introduce four balancing mandates, which are reserved for the underrepresented sex until each sex reaches a minimum of 40 pst. representation and that there shall be a containment limit of 4 pst. in order to achieve a balancing mandate. Then we assume that the department has to lay down more detailed rules. We assume that when applying the barrier limit, the political groupings that otherwise in the Sames are clearly defined as a group and in any context. We assume that the formation of representatives, elected as a balancing mandate, is done as in the allocation of balancing mandates by major elections. We assume that the candidate who is elected to the electoral process is in the lead among the not already elected candidates on the list, but nevertheless that if one of the genders does not have at least 40 pst. for the last balancing mandate, it shall be the leading candidate among the candidates of the under-represented sex who are considered to be elected. Similarly, for balancing mandate No: 3, paragraph 2 and, where applicable, points 1, to the extent necessary to reach at least 40 pst. representation from both sexes. On this basis, I allow myself to recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e487	There is a broad consensus that today's voting system for the Sameting leads to very large differences in the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast behind each representative. It is therefore an objective to establish an electoral system with greater consistency between the votes and the number of representatives elected. I am aware that the Sametinge believes that it is the Sametinge itself who is to determine its electoral rules, but I therefore have the principle view that it is the Stortinget who legislates here in the country that must also take the final responsibility for the design of the law. The right supports the proposal for the introduction of a system of four equalisation mandates for the Sameting of the four constituencies which achieve the most approved votes in the elections. The right also agrees with the Government that the law should not regulate the gender composition of a popularly elected body such as the Sameting. In my opinion, the parties and electoral lists should have the primary responsibility to ensure the best possible gender balance. I would also like to point out that a system of balancing mandates reserved for under-represented sex will not be sufficient to ensure real equality. On the contrary, such a system can become a sleep cushion, so that the effort needed to get women represented on the same line with men is absent. Worst of all, this could mean that the gender balance is getting worse. Although the Sametinge has given advice towards such a scheme, I will show that there was a significant minority in the Sametinge that opposed this decision. On the right-hand side, we will also not support the proposal of the Sameting for a 4 pst lockdown. for the allocation of balancing mandates. It could exclude local lists with a high level of unbundling from the scheme. I am also pleased that the Government announces that it will contribute to a larger and more comprehensive investigation into the voting system of the Sameting, and that any legislative changes may be put in place before the 2009 elections. I allow myself, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, to promote the minority proposal set out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e504	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e509	I asked for the floor in this case to make a very brief comment from the Progress Party. I would like to refer to the comments of the Progress Party in the position that we are mainly against the whole legislative proposal, but that the Progress Party will vote subsidiaryly in favour of the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. In addition to this, I have no need to take part in this debate on the content itself, but after an overall assessment, the Progress Party has therefore found it possible to give subsidiary support to the Government's proposal in this matter. With this clarification regarding voting, I find no reason to extend the debate for my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e516	For SV, it is a fundamental issue to ensure that both sexes are equally represented in elected bodies. That's our starting point on this case. SV is not foreign to use instruments to achieve it, and we have seen that it has been necessary to do so in other situations in order to achieve a balance that is not there. The women's presentation in elected bodies is low. It is also in the Storting, but here we have no such rules. Most parties take responsibility for this and guarantee something similar to representation, but there's one party that doesn't, and that's what tilts the gender balance in the Storing today, and that makes us not taking any steps forward in recent years. It's search. In the Sameting, the low representation of women has been particularly visible, but also in the Sameeting, the parties and groups that make up the list have sailed a political responsibility to ensure that women's representation is better than today. See if the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre agree on the proposals for the four equalisation mandates to be given to the underrepresented sex, up to 40 pst. representation, that doesn't mean that I think this is the only way to solve this. Four representatives are basically very little then, so I will also join those who warn against this becoming a sleep cushion. The whole thing that has asked for such rules is also composed of representatives from those lists where women have not been able to prioritise their nominations. It is a challenge that I think we should point out quite strongly, because there are several arenas to ensure this. In addition, the Government by regulation has given Sametinget the opportunity to reject lists that do not have 40 pst. representation of both sexes. It's an instrument that I think and I hope the Sameeting is using, because it's actually a stronger tool than securing the four equalization mandates of the underrepresented sex. The argument that such instruments have not been used in other elected bodies is being used against addressing this now. I can understand it to this extent if you do not want to use the instrument, but SV believes that once the government has given the Sameting an opportunity to sign lists that do not have 40 pst. by every gender, there's a principle opening to also think that way in relation to other elected bodies, if we don't achieve equality in another way. It can't be that you stick to one principle in relation to the Sameting and other principles in relation to other elected bodies. So on the SV side, we feel a commitment to move on with this and look at how through such schemes we can ensure better women's representation also in other elected bodies. In reality, this is a testing scheme, because the entire electoral system is to be evaluated and resubmitted before the next elections to the Stortinget and the Sametinget. That's why we also think it's less daunting to promote such a proposal that the whole thing is now asking for, in order to get it tested out. It's a little bit sad that we can't do that, because then we would have been an experience richer, both the Sameting and we. Finally, the question of whether it is the Stortinget or the Sametinget which is to adopt the merger electoral system. SV will listen to what Sametinget thinks, but we believe in principle that it is the Stortinget who will adopt the electoral system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e533	The overriding principle issue here is whether it's the Sameting or the Bigholding that decides the Sameting election rules. We note from the centre party that it is the Storting that makes the final decision, but we have previously given our advice to the Government to listen to what the Sameting itself suggests. We thought it was good that the Sametinget now proposes to correct the gender imbalance in the Sametinget. We know from experience that in other elected bodies it has undoubtedly been necessary to have a certain code. There can be no specific discussion that both quota and gender balance requirements on the lists have worked, as well as practical arrangements for the individual to be involved in political work. So the three other important questions. It's one debt of four subjugation mandates. Of course, the center party supports it. But we're also some of the Workers' Party and SV in that it's the Sameting Council's advice when it's the distribution of these that's to be followed. The next question is whether there should be a barrier limit and where it should go in the event. We also support the Sameting there, that there is a lower locking limit for the resolution of 4 pst. to participate in these four mandates. So to the third question, whether to reserve a dithering mandate for the underrepresented sex until one reaches 40 pst. representation from each sex. We're in charge of the Workers' Party, SV and the Sameting about it. It is curious that the proposal of the majority in the Committee, which is in accordance with the wishes of the Assembly, is voted down today, while the party that wants to put down the Sameting, and which itself has no commitment to better women's representation in elected bodies, at least not formally, are the ones who decide this matter today with its subsidiary grievances.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e552	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 400]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e568	The Grand Duchy adopted a new electoral law in 2002. This new law regulated the elections of local government and county councils in 2003. The Ministry of Local Affairs has carried out an evaluation of these choices, with particular attention to their practical implementation. In Ot.prp. No 44 The Government proposes certain changes to the law based on the experiences and findings of its evaluation. These are some areas. It concerns the registration of political parties. These include voters with reduced perceptions or reduced awareness, assistance in the provision of voice, closure of polling facilities, extraction of list votes, distribution of mandates in the electoral districts when there is the same number of distributions, etc. Some of these things have been added here. It is also concerned with depressions, explanatory provisions and clarifications. If I am allowed to make a few keywords for some of these areas, I would like to mention that in terms of the registration of political parties, it is now proposed to take this registration out of the Unit Register. The reason is that the distributions you thought were in such a registration form, did not work. Instead, the Party Register shall be restored. In the case of people with impaired souls or reduced consciousness coming to the polls, we now propose that the provision on the treatment of votes cast by these, which are believed to be suffering from reduced mental abilities or reduced consciousness, be lifted. In the case of closures of the constituencies, such as today, they shall be closed at a given time, but voters who are outside the room, who are in line and waiting to enter, and who are there at that time, shall enter and vote. Then it is likely that one of the options will go out and mark where the queue ends at the current time. If, after a choice, the situation arises, in the case of the allocation of mandates or balancing mandates, that there is the same number of distributions, the same number of votes or the same quotient, it is proposed that this be determined by drawing lots. As regards the Board of Appeal, the Board of Appeal shall be the Board of Appeal in respect of the voting rights and the right to vote, while the Board of Governors shall be the Board of Appeal in respect of the other appeals. The Ministry of Local Affairs will prepare the cases for the National Election Board and ensure that the decisions of the National Election Board are forwarded to the Stortinget. With regard to the deletion of candidates by roll-call elections, there is a system that has existed for quite a long time, but after today's provisions this can only be done by deleting the name, which cannot be registered by optical readers, which are now in use. Thus, it is possible to suggest a system in which, for example, a cross can be put next to the name, or something else that can be registered by such readers. What's decided is going to appear as an instruction on the ballot, and then people get to do what this instruction says. Now, the law doesn't give any precise instructions as to the consequences of these deletions. But there's a certain understanding that if a candidate is deleted by more than 50 pst. by the voters on the list in question, this gives a ruling. In theory, if a candidate were to be extinguished by exactly 50 pst. by the voters, we assume that lottery drawing will be a reasonable understanding of the Storting's opinion with this provision. In the last elections to local government and county councils, the law was amended so that cumulations could also be made on county council lists. The Ministry of Local Affairs studies show that 98.8 pst. by the county representatives were elected in the order which they had been appointed by the parties. Now this does not mean that the scheme was of no interest to the voters. There are relatively many – a whole of 23 p.m., the department has found out – who made corrections to the lists. But the effect of these corrections was very small. A unanimous committee believes that the results we can see from the preliminary evaluation are interesting, and we are responding to the final report. Due to the short time to decide on the future, and the limited experience of voice users, it is recommended that the handling of voice users by decision-making should be postponed until after the 2007 county elections. Finally, it's a unanimous committee that's behind this very complicated setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e598	Just a few short notes. I would like to stress that I am pleased that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs agrees that the experience gained in the 2003 local government and county elections, the evaluation of the elections and the consultation round have shown that it is necessary to adjust the electoral law at some point. There was a lot of noise after the 2003 elections, with new legislation, new systems. I even remember that one of my former university teachers thought that we should now put in place a system of election observers in Norway, because of that. I am also pleased that the Committee shares the ministry's view on the importance of keeping the electoral system as stable as possible, taking into account both the individual electors and the many electoral staff who will be responsible for the implementation of the elections. Much of the vulnerability, it turns out, is about changes in electoral regulations and electoral systems. It is necessary to ensure that those who are to conduct the elections are able to make good use of the regulations. So there is not a lack of guidelines that primarily caused problems with both electoral lists and other but perhaps that the guidelines were followed up. There is the amount of change at once that sometimes gives rise to a problem. That is why I am also pleased that we are getting these changes that are now going to come into force so quickly that we get them involved in the training of election workers, because we have realized that training of election workers is important. With regard to the issue of electoral influence, I refer only to the statements made by the rapporteur. The assessment so far shows that there were no very large priority changes in the county lists. In local government elections, votes have meaning, even if it is such that they are essentially of importance only if the parties allow them to be significant, that is, if the parties refrain from cumulating so many that it effectively eliminates the possibility of electoral influence. I agree that we will not come back again with questions about votes in elections to the Storting until after the election in 2007, but personally it is my opinion that it would significantly strengthen Norwegian democracy. I think it would change the policy in some areas, and it would require another type of activity from individual representatives – from the introverted party activity to the extroverted activity – and perhaps also done something about the power relationships of political parties, which I would not think was unnatural. That is why I have always been a hot follower of personal choice. It also depends on where the thresholds are, before it hits, before it really will have effects that are going to be significant in the future. As regards the evaluation of the 2003 elections, I see that the Committee has taken note of our comments on the evaluation. This concerns both the termination of the prior vote and the assessment of the new simple rules on rejection and acceptance of ballots, and we should await the advice of the Local Democratic Commission on legislative changes in areas related to electoral participation. Then we will also do what we have previously talked about in Stortinget, ensure a stronger focus on the implementation of the elections also for different vulnerable groups, in the form of information measures related to the elections now in the autumn and also in the future. Since this is the first time that elections to the Stortinget and Sametinget take place in accordance with a new regulation this year, we are also going to create a household brochure that will be translated into several languages, as well as television and radio spots and advertisements, in order to arrive at it. In addition, we provide an information campaign aimed in particular at the first-time electors, and we cooperate with the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate on brochures for high school students in school selections. We hope that it will help to increase the turnout among young voters, while I think that it is primarily we politicians who have the most important task of engaging people to go and vote on us, and not that it is the Ministry's information measures that will mobilise the masses of urns for the autumn. That's where I think it's primarily the ability to make policy interesting and relevant that's the biggest challenge for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e629	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur from the Labour Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e638	Inner. O. No 61 to Ot. pp. No 28 for 2004-2005, on the Forest Act, shows that a large majority want the forest to be an important industrial activity in the future. The examination within the committee shows that there is broad consensus on the law and the intention of the law. The majority of the Committee disagrees on the need for a separate environmental regulation, but that is what I will come back to later in my speech. The Committee points out that in Ot.prp. No 28 it is proposed that the existing law of 21 May 1965 on forestry and forest protection no longer apply and that the new law replace it. The proposal also proposes to repeal the Law of 9 June 1939 on domestic forests and the Law of 9 November 1956 on the levying of forest fees for the promotion of common measures in forestry. The Committee stresses that this is a follow-up to the St.meld. No 17 for 1998-99, cf. Inner. S. No 208 for 1998-99. The Committee fully agrees that there is a need to amend the law, both in terms of content and language. The law also becomes clearer in terms of procedure and administration. And that's good, because we want simplifications in areas where it's possible to do it. As the Ministry has drawn up the law, the Committee considers that, despite its extensive content, it is both well described and transparent. The Committee emphasises that forestry continues to be an industry of freedom under responsibility, but sees that the industry has more concerns — mainly the forest as a source of nutrition and the forest as a recreational activity. The Committee is concerned about forest renewal. It is worrying that forest planting has fallen so sharply. Forest is a long-term investment for harvesting to next generations. It is not good that the area planted in 2002 was at the level of planting in the mid 1950s. We're totally dependent on doing a good spring before we harvest, and so is forestry. That's why we have to aim to get more planting. As the forest is such a great supplier of raw material for our business life, which also means, to a great extent, district policy, it is desirable that we get more logging. For a long time we have been on a logging of approx. Ten million. cubic, but is now down to 7-8 million. cubic. It is the Committee's clear wish that one should be given greater access, not least in order to ensure commercial activities of raw materials. The Committee is well aware that it must be profitable for the forest owner to operate the forest, both as an operator and as an environmental manager. Future forest owners will be both women and men. The organisation ‘Women in Forestry’ points out that provision must be made for both women and men to have work in and income from the forest. The Committee agrees with that intention. It was just supposed to be missing, someone would say, but the project ‘Women in the Forest’ shows that it pays to work consciously in an industry that is so far dominated by human culture. The Committee has noted that the Ministry considers that the new law will provide an overall approach to the forest policy challenges and clarify the framework for the owner’s administrative responsibilities and be a better tool for the forestry authorities. The Committee has made a number of contributions during the examination of the law. All parties have agreed that the purpose paragraph was slightly changed. It has therefore been stressed that the purpose paragraph must reflect a desire that the forest industry continue to have a significant place in the value creation of the raw material provided by the forest. Therefore, ensuring active, local and national value creation has been essential, and the Committee recommends § 1 to be amended accordingly. The majority of the Committee agrees that it is necessary to facilitate rejuvenation within three years of the date of the maximum, as proposed by the Ministry. However, the Committee has stated that this period may be extended to five years if it is sound in the light of climatic and local conditions. I initially said that there was a great deal of agreement on the law, but then with one exception, and that concerns the need for a separate environmental regulation. Here the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre have a different view. We point out that all those who carry out forest operations and emptying are environmentally certified to the ISO 14001 standard. Live forest standards for sustainable forest management have been taken into account. It is also the case that all timber to be traded via public channels must have produced an environmental report before each forest operation. All in all, we in this majority of the committee believe that the introduction of such an environmental regulation will give rise to a double bureaucracy, as well as a situation in which even less redundancy will result. In the comment from the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, it is said that environmental regulations should not lead to increased bureaucracy. In my view, this is going to be very difficult, as one must assume that the purpose of implementing the environmental regulation is to have a more stringent practice than today. In that case, the regulation must entail an application or a notification with confirmation of something and a follow-up with control and reporting. Then, in my opinion, there will be increased bureaucracy. This majority, represented by the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, want us to be able to use the already existing bureaucracy to further develop the economic potential of forestry, not for passive control, but active nutrition guidance. There will then be an opportunity for many district jobs to be maintained and perhaps further developed in the background of raw material from Norwegian forests. With this I take up the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e678	I allow myself to take up the minority proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, which is reflected in the vote. It is a truly perspective-rich industry we have to deal with today. Although this has been an industry that has been characterized by a significant stagnation in recent years, we see trends in very many arrows now pointing up. After all, we must be happy about that. Significant mining activity in Norwegian forests is currently being reported. In some very driving areas, we actually see a record impact, and you have to go back to the 1950s to find similar activity. This is due to many factors, including: the generally economically improved framework conditions, in which the forestry industry is also involved, due to increased prices, and we also see a sharp fall in the import of work from the Baltic region. This is a positive trend, which I think we need to address, which I think we are doing through the treatment of this matter. It is reasonable for everyone that the Norwegian forestry industry has a significant untapped potential. We have to take it inward that the untapped potential we have to focus more strongly on. There's a lot of work to do. Of course, it's an industry characterized by a lot of scattered and small properties. Of the 119 000 forest properties in Norway, only a few are so-called viable, and there are too few properties large and robust enough to deliver crops. This suggests that we need to take the economic aspect of the forestry industry more seriously and to a greater extent stimulate the industry to reach a Swedish/Finnish level in terms of harvesting. We can't be content to be down to a level of less than 50 pst. withdrawals relative to the measured increase, when we see that our neighboring country, which is really the major player in this area, is at a percentage of about 75. The subject of the environmental regulation was the subject of the case rapporteur. I liked a lot of what I heard, about the risk of increased bureaucracy when making proposals on regulations and new laws, and the effects this can have. I assume that this is a position that will also apply in other areas, where there is no shame in promoting a series of such proposals. Now I don't think there's any big cause for concern in this case. This must be applied in a positive way, and I believe that a competitive industry characterised by eco-labelling and origin labelling requirements, which are used to living in and around the Living Forest Vineyard, is well prepared to live in harmony with the concept of the environment, the precautionary principle, etc. I believe, and I also have the promise of the Council of State that this will be a regulation to be drawn up in close contact and understanding with the organisations and industries concerned, which is likely to be a pretense for Norwegian forestry industry. We also see trends in the improvement of the forest tax system. I also believe it is necessary that both the Three Programme and more active work on the development of bioenergy in forestry and agriculture should be given a more central place in the treatment of the agricultural agreement and in the dialogue between the country and the parties involved. For example, we see how the bioenergy sector has really become a giant in exploitation in our neighbouring countries, and the potential in Norway is much the same. We also see how the forestry industry has become very good at putting in place alternative developments and activities that are significant elements of the income picture in Norwegian forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e691	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e694	On several occasions, the Storting and the Government have expressed concern over the low level of activity in forestry in recent years. In the examination of the forest report, concerns were expressed about the low activity of the last few years in the industry over the longer term. Investments include: because of lower harvests, reduced income margins and uncertainty about future revenues, while increasing competition, it is called. This is followed up in the 2005 state budget, which describes the challenge in the forest industry as follows: ‘The main challenge in forestry in the future is to improve profitability. Forestry products and services need to generate greater returns, requiring higher processing and increased market orientation throughout the whole value chain.» In order to achieve the objective of increased activity that does not have a temporary character — random recovery — it is important to continue the principle of freedom under responsibility and to avoid, as far as possible, further public regulation that could act as a barrier to activity. It is therefore gratifying that a majority in the Committee, all parties outside the Socialist Left Party, want to sharpen the purpose paragraph so that it strongly reflects the industrial value creation represented by the forest. The Progress Party will oppose some of the provisions of the legislative proposal which may weaken the possibility of rational operation. The legislative proposal provides, inter alia, for: in Section 4, the legal basis for an environmental regulation. In the position of the Forest Communication, the majority of the Committee, which at the time also included the Right, alongside the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, showed the cooperation project Live Forest and the good results this voluntary scheme had already achieved at that time. These parties wanted the Ministry to assess the outcome of a continuation of this voluntary project after two years, and then decide whether an environmental regulation was needed in the context of a full review of the field in connection with a new forest law. In the time that has passed, environmental work has continued. It has been complemented by the Ministry of Agriculture's project Environmental recordings in forests and further implemented in certification schemes followed by Nemko and Veritas. This is now the starting point for the certification of all organised empty space in Norway. The Progress Party cannot see that there have been arguments to suggest that the positions should be changed. The introduction of an environmental regulation would be a violation of the industry's massive environmental effort. We want to support the continuation of the active environmental work of forest industries rather than the introduction of an environmental regulation. The proposal for a new forest law also proposes a tightening of the rejuvenation obligation. Paragraph 6, first paragraph, states that the necessary measures to facilitate rejuvenation shall be initiated within three years of the date of the recapitulation. The Progress Party believes that a strengthening of the rejuvenation obligation is moving away from the principle of freedom under responsibility. Fortunately, the entire committee is in favour of postponing the deadline to five years. Although the other lots set certain conditions for the deadline, it is a long step in the right direction. The Party shall promote a proposal to generalise the five-year period. There are professional reasons for waiting for rejuvenation for five years. For example, the granulocyte image, which is a strong injurer, is drawn to the smell of hake waste. In vulnerable areas, plant planting is expected to take about five years to avoid images. Now that the spray used in nurseries to protect plants against such beetles is no longer allowed, there are few options other than to leave the maximum surface a few years before planting. Other cases may be that natural rejuvenation is expected in a slightly longer term than three years. This cannot be drawn in doubt purely professionally, because there is no fascist response. It must then be up to the individual forest owner, based on science and experience, to manage his own property as he deems appropriate. In the case of the reporting obligation, all lots, except SV, have entered into a time limit to suspend planned measures such as logging or rejuvenation and care. This is very positive because it improves the industry's freedom of action and flexibility. If the Government’s legislative proposals had gone through, the opportunities for rapid adaptation to changes in the timber market or operating conditions of forest owners and forest contractors would have been greatly reduced. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e716	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e719	SV is a party that, like others, is occupied with the forest, but in addition, two of our great role models hold in the forest. One is Ole Brumm, who lives in the Hundred Meter Forest, and the other is Robin Hood, who lives in another forest. This means that we have a long tradition and a good understanding of the importance of forests in many areas of society. And that's really what this case is about. It's about the value of the forest in a lot of areas, which requires a broad approach to how to treat such an important resource. The conflict at that time is the conflict between industry and the environment. I believe that the Ministry's proposal for a new forest law takes care of this in a very good way. We in SV think it is very positive that you have received an environmental regulation. We also think it is very good that it comes out to the hearing, so that those who are affected by such an environmental regulation get the chance to participate in designing it. Because in that way, we can avoid having conflicts in retrospect, because people actually have the chance to be involved and to be allowed to express their opinion on how this should be designed. Søl if the representative Hedstrøm pointed out that SV was not so busy with the business, we are concerned that there must be nourishment in the forest. We've been taking out considerable resources from the forest every year -- resources that have been used both to produce paper, to produce timber and other things. That's why it's also important to keep doing it in the future. But we have to realize that some of the withdrawals that have taken place have been done in such a way that it has damaged the environment. Therefore, it is necessary to tighten this up with reporting obligations, so that those affected by it have the chance to protest and say from if there are withdrawals that are not good in relation to the environmental challenges we have in the forest. I believe that in the future the forest will continue to contribute to important business activities, seafaring if we are likely to get a turn-around. I think we'll get more and more bioenergy out of the woods. We know that it is one of the areas where our neighbouring country Sweden has been very nice. I also think that in Norway we will gradually find ways to take out bioenergy that will allow us to actively use the forest in that area. In conclusion, I would like to say that when we are about to start practicing new environmental regulations, we in SV are concerned that the dialogue that is in a way the intention behind these regulations that are to be consulted continues. We all too often see ourselves in a conflict between industry on the one hand and the environment on the other, which may often be unnecessary. If dialogue is then established at an early stage, it is easier to avoid unnecessary conflicts. I refer to the proposals that SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e734	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e737	Today, a new law on forestry is annexed to replace a law from 1965, a law from 1939 and a law from 1956. Forests are a source of value creation and employment and a central factor in the conservation of soil and water resources and biological deprivation. The forest offers values for recreation and leisure, which are important for health and well-being. The forest also contains many cultural memories and is an important part of the landscape image. Wood is a renewable resource. Wood and wood products bind large amounts of carbon. The increased use of forests by the use of sustainable wood product may replace products with major greenhouse gas emissions in production or use. Within the framework of sustainable management, there is also a potential to increase the use of forest for energy purposes. This seems to be important to the Christian People's Party. The purpose of the laws shall be to give an important signal to those who are engaged in the business of forestry and to different levels of governance, that forestry is about balancing economic values, environmental values and social and cultural values. In the committee setting, there is an addition to the purpose paragraph where one specifies the value created by the forest. The law stipulates that forest owners shall have freedom under their responsibility. The forest owner is thus responsible for ensuring that all measures in the forest are implemented in accordance with the provisions of the forestry law and the regulations provided for by the law. The forest owner shall, on his proposal, also have an overview of the environmental values of his own forest and take them into account in the implementation of all measures in the forest. The Ministry proposes a code on what is in the forest owner's environmental responsibility. This is getting multiple numbers today with SV support. I'm glad. I'm somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party and the Center will not join in and get an environmental regulation. One must not underestimate the environmental work that the industry has done. I would like to refer here to the comments that the majority have in the setting, as well as to the post from Ivar Kristiansen and the representative from SV, who just gave their comments to this environmental code. As usual, the regulation should be heard, so that one can see and have a dialogue, which the representative Ryan was also involved in. The forest owner will be obliged to ensure reforestation after reforestation. The Ministry proposes a period of three years for the owner of the forest to provide for the necessary measures for the renewal of the forest. This is agreed today, but with a clarification that the renewal deadline can be postponed to five years where it is justified by climatic and local conditions. The Ministry proposes that the regulatory environment for the supply of seeds and plants in forestry be further incorporated into the new law. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that it is well arranged for the creation and production of goods and services based on forest resources. A long-term strategy for this important industry is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e754	As many have already experienced, Norwegian forest industries account for both significant employment and high value creation. It is important to have legislation that both helps to maintain a high level of activity in forestry and ensures that the necessary environmental conditions are met. I believe that the draft law under consideration by Odelstinget today adequately respects both of these reasons. The law has been presented in a tidy manner. With the clarifications made by a majority of the Committee on some essential points, the law takes good care of these considerations. There is no doubt that activity in forestry can be significantly increased. Forest plant sales have been reduced, and the area planted in 2002 is unfortunately at the level of what it had in the mid 1950s. The growth in the forest is about three times as high as the extraction. Now, the withdrawal has never been as high as the growth rate, but there are opportunities for a significant increase in withdrawals. The current level of timber extraction is significantly lower than it was a few years ago. I agree with those who say that it is necessary to take sufficient environmental considerations into account in relation to forestry. But I disagree with what it's probably going to be a majority for here in the Chamber today, that there is a need for a separate environmental regulation. The work done by the industry on an independent basis is, in my opinion, sufficient. It is absolutely necessary, both in terms of market access and in relation to the credibility that this industry should have, to ensure that environmental considerations are properly taken into account. I believe that is mainly done in the industry. Of course there may be exceptions, and of course things can always be done better. It is also a responsibility of the industry. But there have been great improvements in this area over the last few years. Therefore, the Centre Party does not see the need for either a separate environmental regulation or an authorisation to provide such a regulation at that time. A majority of the committee, a minority in the Grand Duchy, also wants to make changes to what the law says about renewal, where it normally has to be three years. The central party believes in line with the Workers' Party that it would be an advantage to take greater account of climatic and local conditions than that underlying the law. I am also pleased that a large majority in the Committee restricts the ability of municipalities to interrupt actions in the context of planned projects in the forest. I also agree with what the rapporteur explained, where the Central Party and the Workers' Party stand together in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e777	The Government of Bondevik I provided the forest report, St.meld. No 17 for 1998-99, Value added and environment – opportunities in the forest sector, and the Bondevik II Government presents the proposal for a new forestry law. I am pleased that we have been given the opportunity to ensure an important continuity in this work. For the treatment of St.meld. No 17 The Stortinget took a position on how forestry policy should be in the coming years. When Stortinget today deals with new forestry laws, this is a follow-up to the policy that was adopted, a follow-up that, in my opinion, represents an important milestone in Norwegian forestry policy. Legislation is an expression of long-term road choices, and today's law came into force 40 years ago. It should be a measure of the law being dealt with today, that it too will prove viable for many years. The current Forestry Act aims at long-term resource management. Estimates show that, overall, the forest sector has delivered values to the Norwegian community that far exceed the value of today’s oil fund. Exploitation of forest resources has the potential to create greater values than today. The new law must therefore aim to ensure that forest resources and the forest sector also contribute to business and welfare for both us and those who come after us in the future. Consequently, the law must not unduly impede business activities based on forest resources, but at the same time, in conjunction with other forest policy instruments, it must provide a basis for overall sustainability that safeguards both economic and environmental conditions. The proposal for new rules is based on Storting’s comments on the forest notification, and emphasis is placed on the importance of forest resources for value creation and the environment. I am pleased with the comments made by the nutrition committee show that there is also a broad consensus today on the main lines of forest policy. I share the Committee's concern about the low level of activity in forestry, and I agree with the Committee that the incorporation of environmental legislation, whether by law or by regulation, is a difficult balance. I notice that there are different opinions in the Committee on the adoption of such an environmental regulation. In my opinion, the law should be supplemented by an environmental regulation that creates a safety net and sets minimum environmental frameworks for the activities. However, as indicated in the proposal, such a regulation shall not impose new burdens on forest owners who actively follow up the forestry industry's own work on environmental certification. The regulation on this – if the home falls into place in Odelstinget today – I intend to send it to the hearing before the summer. It shall not weaken the motivation of the voluntary environmental effort of the industry and those associated with the current certification scheme will comply with the requirements of this future regulation. I would also like to emphasise the need to bring forward a new code on forest funds, which in the current law is called forest fees, so that this can come into force from 2006. I'm glad, as mentioned, that we have a broad opening up on today's forest policy. This provides a good basis for long-term and environmentally friendly business activities based on a renewable, environmentally friendly and, in many cases, beautiful raw material. Such exploitation of resources will benefit the country and the districts, and those operating in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e790	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 402]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e798	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e806	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to file a case in which information obligations are reviewed, in the context of what already exists under the Financial Contracts Act and the Credit Purchases Act, with a view to simplifying and coordinating them, without reducing the level of consumer protection.’;» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1218	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1246	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1256	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1264	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Avshan Rafiq on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2 by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by May Hansen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 4, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1333	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The last paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: Close relatives include children, grandchildren, parents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings, uncle, aunt, nephew and niece.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1352	President! I would just like to point out that the voting system is still in order, so you have to correct the vote result in line with that.Fail on the voting system at the representative Holmberg – both buttons showed “for”.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1362	This means that the Socialist Left proposal has been rejected by 61 votes to 10. There is a vote on the proposal for Section 3 last paragraph. The President has understood it so that the Centre Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1403	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1477	There are two proposals here. The President will first vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 11 shall be replaced by the following: Contributions made by a person working in the company of the spouse, cohabitant, parent or other close relatives may be collected from those persons. This applies only if there are particular grounds for suspecting that the related person or persons contribute to the non-compliance with the obligation to contribute.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1497	The President will then vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 11 shall be replaced by the following: Contributions made by a person working in the undertaking of the spouse, cohabitant or parent may be collected from those persons.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1513	It is quoted above the setting of the third paragraph of Section 11. The party of progress has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1560	The party of progress has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1652	The party of progress has warned of their will to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1684	The party of progress has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1828	The President will then bring up proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, to § 36(d). The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 36(d) is replaced by the following: The imposition of a fee in connection with the payment and payment of a maintenance contribution, which in the case will be levied by the Debt Collection Agency together with the contribution or on the settlement of payments of contributions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1939	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1949	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1957	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e1983	In the title, the number of the law is out. It shall be: ‘In Law No 24 June 1988 64’, etc. The President will first address proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth and fifth sentences of the second subparagraph of Article 38b shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2026	There is a proposal from the Socialist Left and the Central Party, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 47, third paragraph, point (b) shall be replaced by the following: This does not apply, however, if the purpose is to help the alien covered by Section 15 of the Act to enter the Kingdom.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2036	I would ask that the proposal be presented as an alternative to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2043	The President thinks we're on the right track on the basis of the scheme we've come up with. The President understands that it's being asked, but we have to split up later so that this is going to be correct. The President believes that this result will be as it should be in relation to SV's wishes. There is a vote on the proposal by the Socialist Left and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2058	President! I'm asking that the number of votes be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2065	The proposal by the Socialist Left and the Central Party was then rejected by 56 votes to 15. The Committee's position on the second sentence of point (b) of the third paragraph of Article 47 shall then be contested. The Progress Party will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2080	President! SV and the Center Party stand together here. I'm going to assume initially that the SV and the Center Party would be willing to vote against this, because we have our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2087	The President proposes that we take the vote again. Then the Centre Party and SV will vote as they wish. It is then again referred to the position of the Committee to the second sentence of point (b) of the third paragraph of Section 47. So here the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2103	In that case, the first sentence of point (b) of the third paragraph of Section 47 is contested. – The position of the Committee has been adopted unanimously. Heikki Holmås – please!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2108	President! We will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2115	So the challenge was to get the right vote from the Progress Party, which was for some and for something else. But now the president thinks we can conclude that the result has been correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2118	I want to ask that you take the last vote again. Then SV and the Center Party can vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2125	Then we vote over Section 47, third paragraph, point (b), first sentence. So based on what has now come to light, the Senter Party and SV have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2137	Now, are we going to say that we got the right result? - We have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2148	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The introductory phrase of the fourth paragraph of Section 47 is replaced by the following: With fines or imprisonment for up to eight years, it shall be punished as:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2195	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2205	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2213	During the debate, Hans Kristian Hogsnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2244	There will be a vote between the Committee's position and the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 4 of the second paragraph of the Samelawn Act shall be replaced by the following: four balancing mandates shall be chosen, which shall be allocated to the four constituencies which have obtained the most approved votes in the election. The term of office of the grouping shall designate the balancing mandates and all alternates.’;» The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2265	I ask that the number of votes be corrected!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2272	Then we get the correct number of votes. The proposal was therefore adopted by 40 votes to 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2292	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2302	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2474	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2484	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2492	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2 by Mr Hedstrom, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2560	There is a proposal for a third paragraph of Section 4, proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 4 of the Forest Act shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the care of forest owners in relation to the environment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2577	There is then a proposal for a fourth paragraph of Section 4. That is proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following provisions of the Forestry Act shall be replaced by the following:Article 4, fourth paragraph:All final ceilings which are not part of an approved plan shall be notified to and approved by the forestry authorities. [[forestry law]] Authorised plans shall be made public.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2631	Section 6, first paragraph, second sentence, contains an alternative proposal, proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2658	The party of progress has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2736	Paragraph 11, third paragraph, contains a different proposal from the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 11, third paragraph: If the municipality has not given a reply to the message within 3 weeks of the date on which the message was received to the municipality, or has taken a decision under the third paragraph of Section 6, the second paragraph of Section 8 or the regulation under Section 4 or 7, the notified measure may be implemented in accordance with the rules applicable under the laws. If the municipality needs more time to decide on the measure, the municipality may terminate the deadline by notifying it.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2754	We're going to go to Chapter 3. There is a proposal, No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party to the new § 12. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 12:The population shall be given access to transparency and participation in all plans and actions that may have an impact on forest environmental values. §§ 12 to 26 becomes §§ 13 to 27.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2775	Sir. President! Correction!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e2782	The proposal was therefore rejected by 58 votes to 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e3042	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e3053	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-lower.ana.ud132e3064	There is no record.
