ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e31	I will initially join those who have given tribute to the case rapporteur, who I think had a proper review of a matter that is complicated and complex in many ways. I will also join with others who have spoken in this matter, and who have talked about that this is really a value debate. That's actually what it is. This is about where we put the basic values in terms of monitoring, but also, on the other hand, where we set the threshold in terms of safeguarding the interests of society. That's why it can be challenging for us at times. Nevertheless, policy is about taking responsibility. Policy is about leading a social development. It makes this case complete. The reason why we are dealing with this matter is, among other things, that there are forces that are willing to hit society as much as possible, and that there is no concern about whom to hit. For some, it's about hitting the maximum to get maximum counting. Then is society's reluctance to have a legal regime that allows you to prevent it. Then it will also be necessary to rock at some values in relation to what to allow, among other things. the police to do as far as the use of surveillance is concerned. All such issues relating to monitoring and intervention or the transparency of individual lives are, in a way, disrupting integrity, and it challenges us all. That's why it's important to have clear thoughts about what you want to achieve, and why you want to achieve just that. I think the most important thing to do is to look at the purpose of the proposal for the law and what you want to achieve by adopting it. With Madrid clearly in memory, we see that those who use this kind of attack on civil society don't mean anything to achieve what they're after. Then we can like it or not, but that there is a necessary debate to take, is at my discretion raised above any doubt. I see this, too, as a possible extension of the Stortinget debate two years ago on the Vulnerability Communication, when we discussed areas of society where there is a need for further action. We did it in relation to the terrorist law. Now we're also doing it here to make sure that society is as equipped as possible to combat, among other things. Terrorism attacks on our country. It becomes a choice, and it becomes so that we all need to go in ourselves to figure out what is necessary. I still think we should respect that Odelstinget per. Now there is a reasonable consensus on most of it. The government agreed on the request for method choices. For the Progress Party, we need to go further than the Government has done in some areas. SV has chosen another model, which I expect the representative of Thorkildsen to come back to. For us, it has been important to listen to those who are first-line, police. They've made recordings that make us want to go beyond what the Government does. We assume that the tapes that the police are making are based on reasonable assessments of this particular department, which is the one in the first row. What you are doing now is opening up space listening and identifying mobile phones and communication facilities. For our part, we have also found it necessary to propose opening the door for reading data communications. We think it is mysterious to now open the door to the identification of telephone systems, but we do not want to be able to see the communication that happens when we use a computer. It is possible that the majority in this room believe that Norwegian criminals or others are naive and will not avail themselves of the opportunities that exist. Unfortunately, at least we don't think it's like this. It is also true that those who commit crime have completely different framework conditions. They do not need to deal with laws. They do not need to take into account. They are only out to achieve the maximum effect, and then they use the means that give maximum effect. That's why we think there's a clear need to go beyond what the government here has done. We also think it's important that we take into account another thing, and it's about storing traffic data. It is also a theme such as: The police security service has pointed out that it makes sense to have access to it for its part. It has also been shown that other countries, both in the Nordic countries and in Europe, have opened up and created legal barriers to the storage of traffic data for research purposes. I have to say, with all due respect, that I'm surprised that the majority can't think of it. There may be good reasons for not doing so. I have not heard them in the Chamber so far today, but the evening is not over, so it is possible that we will hear it later. It surprises me that you don't want to be part of it, but as I said, I take note of it. Another thing that's been discussed here is when these methods are going to be used. For our part, it seems too defensive when they can only be used in the context of organised crime, and where there are more involved. If you look at the police law and the intention of the police, it is among other things. to prevent and prevent crime. At least for the Progress Party, it is a clear goal to enable the police to do so. We should all be served by preventing crime. There must be much more social morality and social vision if you can actually prevent crime from happening than we are going to discuss the methods of investigation. Our goal must be to make sure that this doesn't happen at all, and that's why I also think that it's defensive. For us, it's not the number of people who commit the acts, but what kind of action you want to do, which it needs to focus on. That's why we want to stop it. The same is true of the police and the PST. PST receives some legal support for its use for prevention purposes. We think the ordinary police should have got it, too. We experienced during the hearing on this matter that the police unit thought they should get it, not least in the interests of the law to which the police are going to deal with it. Then it all goes down, at my discretion, to an assessment of whether you have confidence that the police can handle it, or that they can't handle it. For our part, we have concluded that we actually have confidence that the police will be able to handle such laws in a sensible way. Why the majority don't want to be involved, I expect that they have carefully assessed themselves, and that in this way they are responsible for it. But we're surprised at that and we might have hoped that you'd be even more offensive. I think, among other things, that, in many cases, the recordings come from the ordinary police and from the PST, which then have to take action. The point must be to prevent and prevent this from happening. So, of course, some people would say that the Progress Party is going far too far in this case, but we're going exactly as far as the majority does in terms of judicial control and transparency of what the police are doing. If it is reassuring for the majority to have a new regime in terms of the transparency and control of the methods that the majority actually proposes, we think it would be natural for us to put ourselves at the same level in relation to the methods we want to develop. It's essentially the method of data reading, which constitutes the difference, at our discretion. I'm recording that the other parties don't want this, but I hope that it's not like that afterwards will show you that you did wrong, because this is probably some kind of risk sport that you have to be extremely careful about, because the possible consequences for society will be very big and very negative if we are going to be exposed to the type of crime that this bill is supposed to prevent. All in all, I'm happy with what's available here, even though I wanted the majority to go a little further than what you're doing. I take note that this does not happen, and at the same time I will take the opportunity to challenge the Minister of Justice on a topic that was up during the hearing, which was on the budget framework. Among other things, pointed out by the Police Confederation that one thing is to get new opportunities, another thing is to have the opportunity to implement and make use of these methods. At least concerns were expressed by the PF to ensure at the same time that they were able to make use of these methods. If not, this became more or less a showbread. I then take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e67	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e72	The Progress Party, together with the majority of the Committee, is committed to empowering the Police Security Service to prevent prevention methods, but it is a narrow use, and it is to be used only in exceptional cases. However, with one hand, the Advance Party grants the general police a far greater authority to use prevention methods than is given to the PST. This means that in the case of all crimes involving more than 10 years of punishment, the general police are given the opportunity to use prevention methods. I have to say that it is a very intrusive idea that one should be able to prevent rather than investigate crime in retrospect, but I must say that in the utmost consequence I agree with what the First State Attorney in Oslo says: ‘However, the ultimate consequence of such an approach would mean that the police should at all times exercise effective control over individuals in all situations’.» He uses the term ‘police’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e82	I thank the representative Gjul for his concern, but I do not share it. The difference between what the representative Gjul stands for in this case, and what we stand for, is to have confidence in the police, and that the judiciary will be able to see the police in the cards. We have the confidence in the Norwegian police that they are doing a good job within the framework and leadership of the police. We want the police to prevent crime as far as possible, not investigate it. We assume that the police will be able to do so within the framework of the leadership, among other things. as regards judicial review in this case. That the Workers' Party does not have that confidence, I consider to be the Labour Party's problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e87	I am very pleased that the Progress Party is part of the broad majority in this matter, and that the Progress Party supports the use of methods and the narrow envelope it has just received. But what I'm a little surprised about is that the Progress Party will go as far as they want to go. Instead of having a targeted, delimited harpoon, spin penot is used in the Progress Party in relation to opening up the use of the method. My question to the representative is, where does this balance really go between the legal certainty of the individual on the one hand and the consideration of society on the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e94	I thank the representative, Mr Schou, for the challenge. If you look at the head of this case, which is to prevent terrorism, if you look at the reality of it up against other serious crime, it's probably a fact that the A and B gang have released more shots in the capital than terrorists have done here in the country. That is why we want to have a slightly broader approach to it, but – I have to repeat myself, not to the boring, but at least once again – within the leadership of judicial control. That the Right does not trust that it can be done properly, I believe that it is more a problem for the Right than for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e99	We are very surprised by the fact that the Progress Party makes this a matter of trust or not trust in the Norwegian police. The characteristic of a legal state is that a person takes into account unforeseen events, the height of abuse, without anyone having to take it personally for that reason. Then it becomes completely hopeless. The same applies, for example: on the question of viability. If people start taking it personally in any context, it becomes completely impossible. Situations need to be taken into account regardless of the persons who report the different positions. In the extension of what Mr Gjul asked for, I have to ask the representative of the Progress Party that the Riksadvokat and several state lawyers actively go out and strongly warn against the proposals that the Progress Party actually has, in the eyes of the representative Mr Ellingen, means that the Norwegian national lawyer does not trust the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e106	To the representative of Thorkildsen, I would like to say the following: I assume that the Riksadvokat is more concerned about SV's comments in this matter than he is for ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e111	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e114	The last thing I will at least strongly dispute. This is a very difficult field, with a lot of cross-cutting considerations. SV has been committed to helping the police to do their job effectively, while we are more concerned with privacy than the rest of the committee. We have a little pleasant recent story to look back on in Norway, and there are frightening trends internationally in this field by day. It is therefore important to draw up a balanced legal framework that provides effective methods to the police as well as protection against abuse and disproportionate interference in their private sphere. SV believes that the Committee's recommendation does not take too little account of the latter point, but will nevertheless commend both the rapporteur, Mr Schou, and Mr Gjul of the Workers' Party for having tightened up on the proposal made by the Minister of Justice. SV is concerned that the Norwegian legal tradition is based on the need to justify the use of coercive measures with increasing suspicion of criminal offences due to the degree of forcefulness of the coercive measure. The government's bill violates this principle on several points, on the one hand by proposing that the suspicion requirement be drastically weakened, and on the other by proposing new and more intrusive methods on the other. SV believes it is sad that our traditional ally in privacy matters has now left its previous platform. We believe that the credibility of the Left as a liberal party with this has been given a strong shot for the bow. The evening post’s political editor summed it up in this way: «The frames are too wide. The general suspicion requirement. And the magic word "prevention" for all-embracing. SV is deeply concerned about the scale and rawness of parts of organised crime. Of course, we believe that the threat of terrorism must be taken seriously. At the same time, there is reason to show a certain degree of soberness in the description of the crime scene, such as: Mr Oslo State Attorney's Office calls for this in its opinion. They write: ‘If, for example, the situation in Norway is compared with that of the rest of Europe, it must be noted that crime in Norway is lower and is substantially lower than in most other countries. There is therefore no coverage to claim that the situation in Norway is particularly dramatic or that developments should justify specific measures in us.’ The Norwegian legal tradition of mild criminal reactions and detention in allowing the use of coercive measures in the investigation of criminal offences has not resulted in increasing crime in Norway compared to other European countries. As I said, SV fully agrees that there is reason to be concerned about developments in organised and internationalised crime. Technological developments, increased travel activities and globalisation also represent challenges for the fight against crime. In this context, I would like to point out that the SV has strongly warned against the reduction of border controls that the Schengen Agreement brought about in its time. Like the Police Union, SV believed that the reduction of border controls would result in free movement not only of goods, services, capital and persons but also of crime. Organized crime, however, is nothing new, and the environment has always been brutal. SV is concerned that the environment needs to be closely followed, and so, like the majority, we want to give the police greater access to the use of methods – and also more methods – than they have today. In the case of espionage and illegal intelligence activities, there is little evidence that the situation has deteriorated significantly in recent years. The threat of terrorism has changed, but is still characterised as low by the PST. This is an assessment that, among other things: is shared by the Lund Committee, the minority in the Methodology Committee and the Oslo State Attorney's Office, to name a few. Although the threat situation may change in a negative direction, this is unlikely in the near future. It is already prohibited to plan and prepare a terrorist act, and there is an opportunity to use coercive measures in such cases. In the opinion of SV, the example of terror, presented both by Dørum in the media and by the committee majority in the setting, is misleading. It will already be possible to apply the necessary coercive measures, with the exception of space listening, in such a situation. SV opposes the proposal to allow space listening. We believe that the proposals involving the PST go terribly far, even though they are tightened up, as mentioned by the pulpit. The majority has refused to allow space listening on several occasions, on the grounds that the threat to Norway is not strong enough. We record from the SV that the majority now allow space listening in Norway, while describing the threat situation as follows: ‘The security threats to Norway must today be regarded as less than in the time of the Cold War.’ We think this is inconsistent. It is doubtful that the police will have access to the use of untraditional police methods. We could not accept the government's original proposal, because the suspicion had been put too low. Once the suspicion has been raised, SV will accept the change, but we want it to be introduced as a temporary mechanism with subsequent evaluation. Furthermore, we propose that the Government consider extending access to methods for reluctance, including trafficking in human beings, child pornography and killing. We believe that trafficking in people is at least as serious as trafficking in drugs. The majority of the reasons for voting against SV’s proposals are that they believe that the vast majority of traffickers are also involved in drug trafficking, and that, therefore, trafficking in human beings will be prevented by law enforcement. We don't always think this is the case. Furthermore, discrimination could be seen as a signal by authorities that trafficking in human beings is not so important. SV fears that this could lead to a down-priority of such cases. SV is also concerned that killings typically committed by someone to whom the victim has or has had a close relationship, for example. Partner drap or honorary drap, should be subject to changes in the law so as to be able to prevent it by means of non-traditional police methods where appropriate. When it comes to accessing such methods to mentally unstable people, we want to have an assessment of them before we decide. SV believes that the majority speak against better knowledge when they write in the setting: ‘The majority prefer a narrow prevention track rather than criminalising several preparatory actions.’ There are no more than a few weeks since the same representatives – there was also an SV with them, so there was an entire committee behind – the government asked to criminalise the preparation of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity, high treason, attacks on the activities of the highest government agencies or interference with other important social institutions, hijacking, sabotage against the infrastructure, gross deprivation of liberty, agreement on slavery, killing or significant body damage, agreement on fires, other particularly dangerous destruction or agreement on robbery. Many of these preparatory actions will be confronted with penalties that are so severe that coercive measures could be put into effect with a view to averting the acts. SV is concerned that the benefits of allowing highly invasive methods must be carefully weighed against the disadvantages this would have for innocent people. We know that criminals quickly adapt to the methods available to the police. In addition, there is reason to warn against depriving traditional untraditional police work. I refer you here to the post of the 100th anniversary of the Police Federation, held by police officer Torstein Holand in the Police Directorate. According to the Daily Newspaper of 28 May, which has also referred to the article, as some of us heard, there is a concern inside the police that the strong commitment to the control of drug-backers' communications can be at the expense of other traditional methods of investigation. The issue now raised by the police is what will happen if criminals are able to effectively encrypt or by other advanced methods to block police police control of the communication between the offenders. SV believes that it is necessary to consider such elements in assessing how far-reaching we should allow them. The more negative the effects, the more against allowing the methods. We know that space listening will cause criminals and potential terrorists to adapt to the environment. Space snooping could quickly lead to their extraction into open air. SV has concluded that the negative effects of space listening are greater than the gain, and we will therefore vote against it. SV sees the need to allow police access to trace mobile phones and other communication facilities, as the Ministry suggests. On the other hand, we will not support the proposal to allow temporary mass listening, i.e. allowing the police to listen to all telephones in a specific area over a certain period of time. In such cases, the risk of hitting innocent third parties is too high. In addition, the limits are too vague. It also makes sense, in our opinion, to focus on a gradual extension of access to new interventional methods and to assess the impact in the course of the process. SV will therefore vote in favour of access to technical tracking, but against temporary mass listening, at least in this case. Finally, SV is pleased that the lawyers will have a greater right of access to this setting, and that the judicial review will be better than that provided by the Government and the Dørum. However, we are strongly critical of the use of interventional methods such as preventive space listening, without the control of the prosecution authority. We think it is very worrying that the Left is behind such a proposal, but will give the majority the favour of providing a slightly higher threshold than provided for the use of the methods. I refer to the suggestions SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e173	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e178	The interesting thing in this case is that there is another fundamental disagreement – I'm going to be more precise than the last – between those who go to elections as any government partner. I sometimes look for the principles of the Socialist Left Party. They say no to space listening, while opening the door at the wall in relation to the averting methods. In this sense, it can easily be seen that the Socialist Left Party is more concerned with taking the pimps than the terrorists. The Socialist Left Party proposes, in fact, to open up the use of renunciation methods in connection with killings, trafficking in human beings, child pornography, organized sexual assaults on children and serious crime committed by criminally unpredictable persons. In fact, SV increases the pressure on precisely what is going on in preparatory actions, and squabbles in relation to space listening, but at the same time it opens in a broad field in relation to reversing methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e185	To the first point, I have to say that on the SV side, we are happy that we are an independent party and not a tailhang to anything else. We thus take our own views on these matters. What will happen if we go to government negotiations gets to be so its case. But we don't have to agree on all things. In terms of the claim that we then open up at the wall the possibility of using deflecting methods, we are very proud that we have actually also taken into account a number of things that affect very many people very strongly, and where, for example, the risk. to be killed is particularly high. This is particularly true in women's abuse cases, honour-stricken situations, and in cases where we have a concrete threat to very specific people, where the risk of abuse will be much less. In terms of trafficking in human beings, we believe that it is as serious as drug trafficking. We also believe that it is necessary to consider using such methods in relation to child pornography. We have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e194	I'm going to give the representative Thorkildsen credit for being honest and direct in relation to what you basically want to stand for, especially when you go across the majority that advocates in this case. At the same time, the representative Thorkildsen is often concerned about listening to the experts and those who express themselves, such as those who speak. The National Attorney and others in this matter. Then it is tempting for me to ask if the representative Thorkildsen believes that the PST manager has disinformed the Committee when he pointed out the need for increased access to new methods and actually pointed out that parts of Norway are subject to greater pressure than before. Then my question is quite simply: does the representative Thorkildsen think that there was a problem with the PST manager?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e201	No, we don't think it's wrong, and of course, everyone comes up with recordings based on the ten they're sitting on. But then it's up to the legislators to consider different considerations. And these things we think are terribly difficult. But here we have chosen to focus on the close history Norway has of abuse of methods. That's not exactly what the PST boss put on top, I might have more confidence in him than in some others, but we're going to take into account the regulation, regardless of who's sitting there. Then we are also international in a situation where we see that extended access to methods is actually being abused. Amnesty has been out criticising several countries, including the United States and Japan. close allies of us, to abuse methods in the service of the good cause. Of course, we also want to prevent crime, and not least serious crime, but we also need to protect citizens from potential abuse and actual abuse, and that is what we have considered necessary in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e211	I think SV has a very strange approach to that with averting methods. In all other cases that we deal with in relation to extended access to methods, there is a very principle approach from SV. And I think it stands respect for the fact that you have a principle approach, among other things. to ensure legal certainty and privacy. But when it comes to crime you strongly dislike, you're willing to go along with these fundamental principles. The reason why the majority doesn't go any further in terms of averting methods is precisely that these are so intrusive methods that we have to be principled here. We have to limit it to the most serious crime, so that we don't go on a piece of legal security and privacy. And then I think it's a strange approach SV has just in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e216	I don't understand. If it had been the case that SV had been in principle opposed to allowing the police access to the use of renunciation methods in other cases, but had said that in cases involving killing the related person, for example, or in cases of trafficking in human beings or child pornography, we should allow the police to use these methods, it would have been fundamentally very strange. But that's not the way it is, it's the way SV says that okay, we accept that the police are going to use these methods for a while, and then we want to expand the range of issues where the police are going to use these methods. We put a very big question mark on the example of Anna Lindh, who was used by the Council of Dørums' side, I think it was. We believe that through such an access to using methods, it would be difficult to avert the killing, for there was nothing in advance that suggested that the killing was going to be committed. So no one had any suspicion whatsoever that it was going to happen. For example, while some of them killed. to women in Norway, we know that there are many warnings in advance, and such killings we will be able to avert, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e224	The crime scene is a cause for concern. Developments are in the direction of better organisation, increased flexibility and cooperation between criminal networks, increased internationalisation and mobility, increased use of advanced technologies, increased specialisation and professionalism, increased mixing of illegal and legal activities and greater brutality. In addition, the analysis and threat assessments of the Police Monitoring Service by the Police Methodology Committee indicate that the recent terrorist threat to Norway has increased. This is part of today's reality. The challenge for political authorities is therefore the question of the evolution of crime, making it necessary to complement police access to investigation methods. The government concludes in Ot.prp. No 60 that there is a need for a certain extension of the methodology. However, it is not concealed that the proposals in the proposal involve liberal dilemmas. Low levels of surveillance give freedom – but also freedom for criminals to commit criminal acts that violate the freedom of law-abiding citizens. The challenge for society is to strike a good balance between protection against serious crime on the one hand and privacy and legal certainty on the other. In view of the position taken by the Police Methodology Committee, the Government's proposals and the Storting decision are a moderate alternative. For example, neither the Stortinget nor the Government want: supplementing the microphone with a camera, as a majority of the Political Affairs Committee voted in favour. For the Christian People's Party, it is an objective to fight well-organised criminal environments effectively. However, the methods used must remain within the legal State. Norway is not, and will not be, any police state. Following today’s decision, we allow for a methodology that is less extensive than that in use in several other European countries. For example, the conditions for access to police methods in this country will remain significantly stricter than in the United Kingdom. A broad majority of Odelstinget today would agree that, under strict conditions, the courts should be able to allow space listening as part of the investigation of acts of terrorism and the most serious forms of organised crime. The courts shall be able, under strict conditions, to allow for space interception as part of an investigation where there may be grounds for suspecting that a person has committed a terrorist act, acted against the judiciary or committed a murder, serious crime or a particularly serious drug offence as part of an organised criminal activity. It is not to hide that space listening is intervening to those exposed to it. I would therefore like to emphasise that it is more important to meet the legal requirements for the likelihood, materiality and proportionality of using this instrument than when there is a less invasive police method that is sought. I would also like to emphasise that the government parties, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, have decided to reverse the possibility of listening to public places. We demand that there be ‘special reasons’ before such listening can be accepted. The second new approach introduced today allows the police to identify mobile phones and other communication facilities using technical equipment. This will make it more difficult for criminals to escape listening by using e.g. stolen or unregistered phones. The objective of such technical tracking is not listening. The aim is only to recognise a person's voice and e.g. connecting the person to a given mobile number. Once this connection has been made, the police must go to court and ask for permission for telephone interception. The debate on the methods by which the police can use them is important. But I dare say that the debate on when the police are going to be able to use these methods is even more important – and even more difficult. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party agree that police investigation methods should be allowed to be used to avert a few particularly serious criminal acts when there is ‘reasonable reason to believe’ that they will be committed. This concerns acts of terrorism, the fight against justice and murder, serious crime and, in particular, serious drug crime when these last three acts have been carried out as part of organised crime. It is far more important to avert the fact that such particularly serious acts take place than to later clarify who was behind the disaster. The aim of allowing methodology to be used for this purpose is precisely to improve the police’s ability to obtain information as part of the investigation before a serious criminal offence has been committed, with a view to preventing it from being carried out. This is often difficult today because the main methods of investigation can only be used when there is some cause to suspect that someone has already committed a serious criminal offence. In addition, the security service of the police is provided with a better opportunity to prevent, inter alia: terrorist acts. However, the general rule also applies to PST for coercive measures to be used as part of an investigation. The preventive track is a narrow safety valve for PST. In all cases where the PST is confronted with the choice between method use within and outside the investigation, the investigation trail shall be selected. The PST is given the opportunity to use coercive measures under strict conditions to investigate whether anyone is preparing terrorist acts, illegal intelligence or violent acts or threats aimed at, inter alia. Representatives of the Royal Court, the Grand Duchy, the Supreme Court or the Government. I would like to stress most strongly that this sloppy home that the PST gets to prevent crime does not open up to political surveillance. These are the most serious forms of criminal acts that are affected – not anyone's opinions! Neither globalisation critics, members of the Blitz community nor secondary abortion opponents meet the criteria set by law in order for a court to authorise the use of the method for renunciation or prevention by the PST or the police. The use of police methods shall be subject to the approval of the courts. The monitoring by the courts of the use of coercive measures by the police is a particularly important guarantee of legal certainty. This presupposes that the courts are not conscientious about the demands of the police authorities but that the judges are critical and questionable about the need and appropriateness of the use of methods in each case. State lawyers will also have a significant responsibility to follow the practical application of the methods. In addition, the EOS Committee is given an expanded role in relation to the activities of the PST. All of this to ensure a targeted, narrow and precise use of coercive agents. In recent years, a number of amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act have been adopted which aim to improve the ability of the police and the prosecution authority to meet today’s crime scene. This includes, inter alia: access to new methods, the possibility of anonymous giving and restrictions on access to documents and giving a witness in order to protect witnesses and informers. These changes, like the decisions taken today, have raised many difficult issues of principle and dilemmas. It is therefore very important to verify how the methods are used and how the changes in the laws are applied and how they work. It is necessary to verify the proper functioning of the changes and the safeguarding of legal certainty in order to protect law-abiding citizens. It is therefore gratifying, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the Government will set up a sample to evaluate and back-check the significance of the changes in the law. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the rapporteur and to the representative Gjul of the Workers' Party. The proceedings in the Committee on Legal Affairs have been constructive and critical, and this has led us to a good result. But I am somewhat surprised when you can read in the media and have also heard today from this pulpit in this matter that the committee work has caused the Council of State to fail. Because after the Christian People's Party's understanding of what a defeat is, there must be completely different mechanisms at the root. As we understand it, it's a defeat when you actually promote a case, stand on the case and get a majority against it. That's when you've been defeated. But when you go into negotiations because you want to find a solution, and you find this solution in cooperation between the members of the committee – including the government parties – where you find positions that everyone can accept, and we call it a political outcome. That is what must be meant – to find out what it is possible to get a majority in this Chamber. That is what has happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e274	Finally, I would say that this would mean some kind of negotiating parliamentaryism that we do not really have. If the Council of State has promoted a proposition for the Storting, he gets to stand on it and either few victories or suffer defeat, in whole or in part. But what is my question to the representative, Mr Marthinsen, is caused by the rapporteur's statement today, where she says that the changes made by the majority have no material significance. For the Workers' Party, it has been incredibly important to ensure effective judicial control, in particular with the PST, in relation to prevention methods. When Section 17(d) now states that one must have ‘reasons to examine whether someone is preparing’ etc., the representative Marthinsen believes that there is a ‘material change’ which in fact implies that the courts must go in and see whether there are objective points of view, substance, etc. in relation to the survey criterion? Or is Marthinsen in line with the rapporteur and believes that it should have no meaning whatsoever?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e282	I guess that's the way you pick your words from the point of view you have. When the rapporteur has used the term ‘material changes’ and said that there are no material changes in the content, the Christian People's Party will probably say that we can be in it, but it has got a different value, it goes in a slightly different direction than the original one. This is our position in relation to what has now happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e287	The representative Marthinsen talks about the government adding something that it expects was possible to have a majority. From the point of view of the SV, it seems improperly strange that the Left, which is the party that has been, says that the sails, very concerned with privacy, have not put themselves on a more restrictive line, since it was obviously possible to have a majority for a more restrictive line than what was left behind. Instead of ‘low’ I can use the term ‘solid scratches in the paint’ at least. Since the representative of Marthinsen would not answer whether what has now been done by the majority of the committees involves material changes, I would like to ask whether it is such, in the opinion of the representative of Marthinsen, that legal certainty and privacy have been strengthened after the Committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e294	I will leave to the Council of State itself to respond to what he experiences in relation to what is now claimed in this Chamber about his role in this matter. However, I still dare to stress that as I have seen it, there have been negotiations and conversations in a good tone that have been marked by mutual respect and mutual desire to find a solution that all parties can live with, and that, in order to answer directly the question from the representative Thorkildsen, would like to be called'material improvements', if that is an expression that would be satisfactory. But to say that we've come up with something new, something different, something that hasn't been there, is at least not right from our point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e299	I'm going to wake up well to use a tone that won't be acceptable to the representative Marthinsen, so I'm going to try to do this with care. The majority have made a change to the fourth paragraph of Section 216 m of the Criminal Procedures Act in relation to the possibility of allowing interception in public places, and the intensification is required only when there are ‘special reasons’. Since Marthinsen was now very concerned with the excellence of the majority's remark here, I could imagine hearing what Marthinsen puts in the term'special reasons'.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e306	Specific reasons are the reasons that go beyond the ordinary, those that are different and that are considered by those who are required to make the decision to be of such a nature that they should open up to this kind of – we say – monitoring. There are ‘special reasons’. But then there may be other descriptions in it, from the point of view of the Court of Justice and from those promoting cases before the Court of Justice in order to get the opportunity for a hearing, in relation to whether it really is ‘special reasons’. To frame up the individual matters here is not possible at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e311	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e314	The centre party will consider supporting the proposals in today’s position on the issue of the use of coercive measures to prevent serious crime. We share the comments made in the statement that the international image of crime is changing, and that it creates new challenges for the Norwegian fight against crime. It's clear that part of the reason for this is technological development, that we're going more, and that there's more cross-border contact. But we should not ignore that not everything is a result of irreversible relationships. Some of it is also a result of political choices made in Norway, among others. the border control one chose to dismantle when a Schengen Agreement was concluded. It must also be borne in mind when looking at the measures being promoted today and the fight against cross-border crime. As I said, the centre party agrees with much of the majority’s position, but there is one point where the centre party does not share the majority’s position and the proposal to allow space listening. We have noticed that in the setting the SV is only about going against it, but we believe that space listening is the most invasive of all coercive agents. One goes far into a person's private sphere, and the chance that others other than those who are applying for information may be hit is very great. I also think in this context that there is an argument that the purely professional criminals can adapt enough in the long term to access to space listening and find alternative ways to organise their activities. At least in the debate on space listening, we have chosen from the centre party to focus on the more fundamental considerations of the majority in the Lund Committee on the issue of space listening. The centre party simply believes that one is exceeding a limit when one now allows space listening, and we think there is reason to recall what the majority of the Lund Committee actually said, that one under the pressure of the desire to combat international organised crime and terrorism must not lose sight of good Norwegian criminal law traditions. We believe that the fact that you have had a barrier to space interception has been one part of an important part of Norwegian criminal law tradition. We also share the views of the majority of the Lund Committee on the balances in relation to personal interest, and we ask ourselves the question – sail if one says today that one should be careful – about the danger of extending the use of space listening is going to be there once one has opened up access, and has crossed this limit. I notice that the department says they will be cautious at first. Yes, and then the question is, where will one go further when the pressure from new issues is going to lead to a discussion about an extension of this access? I think that's worrying. I believe that this is a fundamental change in Norwegian policy, even in the sense that we have never experienced that such a broad majority in the United Kingdom has been willing to open up space listening, without one having addressed the issues that the majority of the Lund Committee also did when dealing with the more privacy issues. I also think it's worth noting that the Lund Committee's navigation only assessed space listening in relation to terrorism or in relation to the security of the state, it was at least a clear conclusion from the majority that when it came to terrorist acts, one was uncertain whether it could be said to be a documented need for space listening. One was also concerned that this would be primarily a means of dealing with criminal offences related to national security. It is also worth noting in relation to the history we have had in Norway also in relation to the illegal use of some coercive substances related to crime control or intelligence. The centre party will vote in favour of the majority's position in most cases, also with regard to the identification of telephones and other communication facilities using technical equipment, but we will then vote against § 216 m, and we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 6, from SV, to get an evaluation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e331	Developments towards raw materials and more organised crime have made it necessary to extend police access to methods. The aim of the legislative proposal is to be able to use legal methods to prevent, for example: an act of terrorism is committed, instead of being referred to as a back-end method to identify who was behind it. In some cases, a wide-ranging settlement is particularly important. The issue we are dealing with today falls into this category, because it touches so fundamental values in our society and represents difficult balances between privacy and crime prevention. It has been particularly important for me to bring the Workers' Party into such a settlement. I would like to thank the Justice Committee for its constructive consideration of the legislative proposal. The minor adjustments made to the bill have been made following input from the Ministry and have, among other things, President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would like to stress that the legislative proposal does not open up political surveillance. These are the most serious forms of criminal acts that are being affected, and not attitudes. Neither globalisation critics, members of the Blitz community nor extreme abortion opponents fulfil the conditions of the law in order for a court to allow methodology to be used. A strict and effective control of methodology has been provided — keywords are prior judicial control and subsequent control of the Communications Control Control Committee and the Storting’s own EOS Committee, respectively. Some have referred to the Lund Commission’s criticism of the practice of the courts in the post-war period and on that basis considered that the requirement of court authorisation does not provide particular legal certainty. I believe that is an under-estimation of the courts, firstly because I believe that even the judges have learned something from the Lund Commission, but also because we know that proportionality has become a heavy and important element in the case law of Norwegian courts, at least in the last ten years, and secondly because it will now be working consciously and actively with the powers of the judges to make the best possible exercise of their control. I am pleased that there seems to be a broad majority here in the Stortinge behind the principle approach in the bill itself – today's responsibilities continue, and targeted legislative measures are central. The Ministry’s bill includes few and carefully selected very serious criminal acts. The demand for association with organised crime, except in terrorism, means that most people have no reason to fear increased monitoring. It is also wise to lay down rules so as to prevent the conduct of investigations. For the ordinary police, this applies invariably. This is also the general rule for the police security service, but it opens up in very specific cases in order for methods to also be used as part of prevention activities. But, as it is underlined by several, the choice is between using the methods in abstinence in criminal proceedings, and this is the track to be chosen. The legislative proposal under consideration here today is the preliminary cornerstone of a wide range of legislative changes in recent years that have given the police increased access to the method. The development of the crime scene has made it necessary to give the police access to new tools in the fight against serious crime. I have said in the past that the methods would be evaluated after a time. It is now time to examine whether the methods have had the same meaning for the investigation that was foreseen at the time the methods were put in place and whether the interests of privacy and legal certainty towards the suspect and other interested parties have been adequately safeguarded. The questions raised by this back-up check are of such a nature that it is natural to allow them to be assessed by a wide-ranging sample. In line with the opinion of the Justice Committee, I will ensure that the selection is no later than one year after the entry into force of the new rules. I have noticed important issues in the debate, including: questions from the representative of Storberget. I would like to point out here that, at the very beginning of this case, I received a general question from the Committee on the effectiveness of judicial review. There I showed that in the proposition there were a number of actual conditions that had to be documented before the courts, especially on the part of the PST, so that they would be allowed to use prevention methods. But then I say that in order to be fully clear and even more clear that the intentions are to come forward, one should be able to replace the wording that says, with the wording'reason for examining'. It means, as it also says in the same answer – according to my memory – that the court must be able to ask why. So there has to be a documentation, a starting point, a factual relationship to go into this. This is what I believe the committee is saying in the vote, that it has registered concerns in the debate that has taken place, and found it right to clarify in particular the competence and role of the courts. I'm glad of this preparation. I live well with it. I am particularly pleased that it has been possible to have this dialogue that has been conducted within the Committee, which I also agree with has led the representatives of the Workers' Party to agree to this. I am also pleased that the Progress Party has gone in for it, even though on many points they go incredibly much further than I have ever intended to go – and will imagine me going, to say it that way. In the case of SV, I'll come back to that. I expect that the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen will ask me questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e357	I can confirm the Council of State's assumption that the change made in the mandate of the PST regarding prevention methods was essential for the Workers' Party to be able to support that proposal, precisely because we were afraid that the courts would get an impossible task if we did not get this clarification, and we could have risked getting a new case of the character we had a few years ago in relation to monitoring. I therefore interpret the Council of State quite clearly as meaning that this is a material change in relation to what was originally in the proposal. I understand that there is also a lot of prestige in this matter at the Council of State, and that is not so strange, because the Left has been tested in many ways on its own way in terms of privacy and legal certainty. There is no doubt that the Storting on a number of points has tightened up the proposal that the Government originally made. Isn't it just as good to say that here you got a little bit overwhelmed after taking those tough guys, so you took a little too much Møller's tran?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e364	Yes, the representative is absolutely right that I have a prestige. I've had a prestige in getting a broad deal. And I'm very happy that it's been possible. I've had a prestige in that. It is also quite right that the representative has understood me correctly in the answer I sent on 29 April to a question from the committee, where I say: ‘If the Committee considers it desirable to define the terms of the proposal for Section 17(d) in such a way as to reflect even more fully the intention of good and effective judicial review, it is possible to amend the first subparagraph so that the passport ‘to examine whether someone is preparing an action’ is replaced by ‘if there is reason to examine whether someone is preparing an action’. Of course I do. It's recorded completely open and direct. In the case of the Committee itself, it shall characterise what is to be done by saying: ‘The majority trust the courts, but have made some clarifications in the legal text in order to meet their concerns.’ This is a quotation from the setting of the Committee. With regard to the role of the Left, the Left Party is prepared to take the dilemmas that arise. We cannot escape when we face terror and organized crime. Then we must dare to meet it, rather than back away, even though it may be the most pleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e391	One of the issues addressed by the Minister of Justice was the need to extend the number of methods — which the case also addresses. One of the themes that has been affected here is data reading. In this respect, I would like to refer to the hearing opinion of the Police Security Service, such as, among other things. says the following about data reading: ‘The method is justified by the need to capture telecommunications before the communication becomes encrypted’... ‘It is assessed by the PST that the current possibility of encryption of telecommunications forces the question of opening up data reading.’... ‘PST would strongly recommend that data reading be allowed as a method of police investigation as such.’ Then is my question to the Minister of Justice: What is it that the Minister of Justice does not trust his former Secretary of State, the current head of the Police Security Service, Jørn Holmes' assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e401	I have the greatest confidence in a head of intelligence who is mentioned in the press as a liberal, and who takes his position as liberals into the job. Of course I trust him. But a head of intelligence can sometimes wish for more than what a government council will give. And that's what's the point here. The clear point is that I didn't want to go into data reading until it's seen in the context of the entire data acquisition. Because it has to be possible, just like what has happened in this room in the questions that have been dealt with here, that it is seen in a whole and in a total context. I would like to remind you that the Police Methodology Committee almost had a wall-to-wall carpet of methods, and the Advance Party has taken up a lot of it. One of the most difficult things, I think, is that you generally go in to let the ordinary police get into the prevention trail. Then you're far from the criminal trial we're used to having in this country. Choosing the narrow case for the police security service is, for me, a clear legal alternative to starting to criminalise ordinary preparatory actions. Such actions come, of course, suspiciously close to everyday life's actions. Buying a chemistry book can be read as terrorism, although in 999 out of 1,000 cases it is about learning chemistry. And I don't want to get in that track.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e408	In the course of committee proceedings, the requirement to use methods has been raised for the purpose of reversing, lawyers have much better access to documents, and the arrangements for access to space listening are tightened. There will be better judicial control, and the conditions for access to the use of preventive methods by PST are tightened. So there are quite significant changes that have occurred during committee treatment. But on the basis of the reply to the representative Gjul, it seems that the Council of State is really sorry that those changes have come, as he took the more offensive and tough tone and showed how necessary it was to get these changes in place. Does he consider that it is regrettable that these changes are coming, or does he consider that legal certainty and privacy have actually come out of the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e415	Yes, it is possible that I heard loud out to the representative of Thorkildsen, but I actually started by saying that I was busy getting a broad settlement, because she had challenged me, and I said that I had the prestige to get to it. I then quoted the committee, which has made clarifications in the legal text to clarify and strengthen the courts. I stand by that, and I feel satisfied with it. And I said it's been a reinforcement of the role of lawyers. In the case of the reasonableness criterion for the use of deflecting methods, it is primarily to emphasise proportionality. I also see that as important, because it is precisely the legal tradition that we have had in the last ten years after the Cold War, namely, that one has to follow closely when the courts deal with it. But I'm much more concerned about SV's approach. SV rejects the narrow and preventive track for PST. It increases the pressure to criminalise preparatory actions. We can take example of someone filming the chassis on a plane train. It could be a ‘train potter’. It goes without saying that if you first start criminalizing preparatory actions, you're on a legal migration I wouldn't go on. I feel that SV chooses a line in that direction, because they don't dare go into the dilemmas that arise in connection with the police security service. And there we choose legal inequality, SV and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e429	Society is changing, probably faster than ever. We're getting new technology, new knowledge in most areas, and probably we've also got some new attitudes to key issues. The threat picture has changed, and criminal activity – if you can use such words – has become more professional, more systematic and more well-organised. As far as I understand, certain criminal environments also have international branches. Now it says to itself that as little as we can have a defense that is aimed at yesterday's threat, we can have a police that manages methods and resources directed towards the crime scene that once was. It is necessary to provide police, especially the police security service, with access to the necessary methods and coercive measures, not only to investigate and clarify, but also to prevent the most serious threats. However, the legislator in each country must carefully weigh the different relationships between each other. It is necessary to give the provisions that Odelstinget will give today, while at the same time balancing this against privacy and other values on which a democratic society is founded. After the committee gave its position last week, I heard that this was commented on on the radio. It was said that this is a bit on the way. But I understood that there was some disappointment that privacy was still given such a prominent place in the assessments. I think we're all going to stop up a little bit sometimes and make an assessment of what values are quite inalienable in a well-functioning society, and what consequences it will have if we go on chords with these. We should also bear in mind that once these values are removed, or severely weakened, we will not be able to bring them back into society. I see beyond the very young assembly here, but I guess no one here remembers writers like Huxley and Orwell. But it is possible that you should read some of them again. In addition to the relatively tight restrictions in relation to the new coercive measures, Stortinget has its own sample – this is the main reason why I have asked for the word – the EOS Committee, which is to verify that these services do not infringe laws, regulations and regulations. EOS services in Norway have changed in character since the Cold War and since the fall of the Wall. We had the EOS Committee's annual report for treatment here in Stortingen a short time ago, when we included. be able to see that secret services cooperate in all ways with the control body. They now did not meet attitudes about keeping things hidden, or keeping things away from this selection. It makes it easier to make such a decision as we do today than it would otherwise have been. I believe – as has also been mentioned earlier in the debate here – that today's decisions should not be seen as a step on the road and that new attacks on privacy will follow. I think the Stortinget will be very restrictive in such a direction, and I think we all serve on that. We can see the changes that have occurred in this case. Now I have listened to the debate here, a debate on whether there have been any significant changes, or whether it is the Government and the Council of State that have themselves initiated or been actively involved in these changes, etc. All of this is completely possible. But the parliamentary order is such that once the Government has delivered its proposition to the Storting, the changes are happening, the will of the Storting. It is very difficult to give the government some honor or some shame for the changes that are happening here in the house. I think we should be very careful about rocking the parliamentary order that exists. A proposition sent to the Storting is the will of the Government. The changes that have taken place are the will of the Storting, that is what the parliamentarians have done. The EOS Committee will have further work after the decision we take today. My main point with this article is that I expect the Storting to ensure that the EOS Committee has the resources and the working conditions they need to be able to follow up their work in the same good way that they have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e452	I believe it is important that state councils take responsibility for the propositions they make in the Storting, primarily because they want it politically and show the voters what they actually promote in the Storting. But in this case, this also has a different side, and that is that the changes that the Storting actually makes have real meaning. I sincerely hope that there will be no remaining impression from this debate that the changes that have actually been made should have no material significance. It would be a deadly signal to Norwegian courts if they were to read the debate as a source of justice – and that should be done. Therefore, I believe that the ways in which one can run away from his own proposition, and which has been tried here today, either by saying that the achievement is put into getting a broad settlement, and that may be good enough, or by saying that the changes that are made have no material significance, become equally stupid in relation to what the courts are going to read out of the law that we are going to adopt. Because it is not like the representative Marthinsen was in his post, that there should be nothing new in the changes, and that there were only denominations. Access to space listening has become more restrictive than under the Government’s proposal. A requirement has been made to ensure that innocent people are not hit, and for public places a requirement has been included in the legislative text on ‘special reasons’. In addition, we know that the threshold has been raised for the use of deflecting methods also for the police, requiring ‘reasonable reasons’, not only ‘reasons’. We also know, as many people have said, that access for lawyers to access all the file through secret coercive measures has been improved, and for police matters it applies to all the documents. It is a real, material law, which is of great importance to the lawyers who are to seek access, and to the clients it might have to hit. Also the PST's urgent competence is cut, so that, as I understand it, it can only be used in relation to attacks. And what I think we're going to be very careful to clarify from this platform is the question of PST's ability to use prevention methods. A passport has been entered that there is a need to examine whether ‘some are preparing’. It has been important to us, and we can say that if no one else had initiated it, it would at least have been taken up by us, as the representative Gjul was inside. Reasons for examining whether ‘some are preparing’ clearly raise a criterion in relation to the courts that there must be objective points of view in relation to that ground. It has to be factual, and it's also to a certain extent a matter of proportionality. This is more than a valuer, and it is important that all the time the department in its proposition on page 132, left column, goes so far as to say that if they introduce such a rule where it says that where there is a need to investigate whether ‘some people are preparing’, ‘an additional resort on prevention methods’ would have a ‘low self-interest’ in relation to the criminal procedure table. It was the government's perception of this while it sent out the farm proposition, that if you went into this matter that way, the law would be so small that it became of little maritime significance. The working party does not believe that it has little maritime significance. We record that the ministry and the government have been of that opinion. Then it's a little strange when you get here in Stortinget and say that this has no meaning whatsoever. It has the meaning in relation to the courts that they are given an inspection which they have a real opportunity to carry out. That is what has been missing in all these cases, and where there has been a crisis in relation to how these actors have managed methods in the past. The working party believes that the effective control of these methods is to make them effective, and the effective control of them is also to legitimise the methods. We need that more than ever, so that citizens are given the confidence in as far-reaching methods as one chooses to apply. If that doesn't happen, we're at risk of the methods themselves losing their effect. That is why this debate has in many ways called for the sincerity of all politicians as to what they really mean. That's the sincerity we should put on the table. It is as the Lund Commission said in 1996, when they finished their great work: ‘In conclusion, the Commission will point out that although the services are governed by rules and are subject to more effective control, and even though the activities of services are more open to the outside world in line with general principles of administration, it is not surprising that we are faced with a time when modern technology will provide new potential for rumors and speculation.’ And finally: ‘At such a time, it is particularly important that responsible politicians are willing to handle the relationship between services and the public with sincerity, regardless of whether the issues may be sensitive – politically or otherwise.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e471	During this ageing period, very much has been done in the field of criminal law. We have got a law that is better equipped to meet today's and tomorrow's crime scene and that ensures citizens better protection and police a better tool against terrorism and gross, international organised crime. During this period, the size has adopted new anti-terrorist legislation. A number of measures have been taken to improve the protection of witnesses and other actors, we have been given new legal provisions against organised crime, and we have, not least, received a new and modern penal code. With the Government's proposal for new methods of investigation and an extension of the scope of coercive measures, we have come a long step closer to a law that is able to meet new and major challenges. The brutality has drawn closer in recent years. Crime trends both in Europe and at home have moved towards increased cooperation between criminal networks, better organisation, increased internationalisation and mobility. The challenge in criminal law is often to find the right balance between social security on the one hand and individual citizens' legal certainty and privacy on the other. Today’s legislation does not provide an adequate balance between them for cross-cutting reasons. We see that there is a disparity between the expectations of the Norwegian community to the police and the PST, and the means to which they have access. Now that the police have access to space listening and access to the use of coercive drugs for the sole purpose, this is the result of a long and thorough debate. The legislative proposals are on the ground of the rule of law, the methods are regulated under strict conditions, are subject to judicial review and are verifiable. Enlargement will affect few types of crime, where the Government chose to narrow it down to the most serious criminal acts such as terrorism, murder, serious drug crimes and serious crime as part of organised crime, illegal intelligence, assassination and killing of the servants of the judiciary. One must also consult the courts in order to obtain permission to use coercive substances. A person has strict requirements for proportionality and materiality to be assessed by the Court of Justice. There shall be a strict and broad back-testing. The courts, the state attorney general, the EOS Committee and the Minister of Justice are very strict. It is important to stress that the more extreme a coercive agent is, the more stringent the requirements are made for both probability, proportionality and materiality. What is being adopted today is an adequate response to the crime and threat picture we as a nation are now facing. The right will always be prepared to meet new challenges with new measures. But let it be clear: we will never let this go at the expense of legal certainty guarantees. Fighting crime must take place on a broad front. Rome listening is one of the most influential instruments in this regard. That is why I am pleased that such a broad majority supports today's legislative proposals. It is important to give legitimacy to the methods and it is important for predictability. But most importantly, the signal we send to the criminals: the community does not tolerate the emergence of gross organized crime and terror, we will defeat it. The Norwegian police are now given a new and important tool to stop this development. I think the debate so far, like the debate in the previous case, has been about minor changes and details – important details correctly – but it is important when the representative Storberget and others are concerned that the debates should be legal, that they should be read and that the main content should also be presented. That's what I've been trying to do in my post. I'm also very happy that the Workers' Party could be involved in this proposition, just to get the broad majority necessary in such a case. That is why I am even more concerned when I again register in this case – case two out of two today – which is important in principle, that there is a full division between the so-called red-green parties that want to enter the government premises. I expect the Labour Party to stand firm in this matter, even if we were to get in the unlikely and unfortunate situation that these three parties would have a majority after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e499	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e502	In the last few weeks, there has been a lot of energy and space to debate just this matter. That's good, because the matter is important in many different ways. When faced with different types of threats and new types of challenges, it is important that the need for the rule of law to protect citizens and citizens is put under a critical searchlight. As a left-wing man, I am pleased with this focus. Terrorism is a very special historical challenge we are now facing. The principles of law we've been building for thousands of years are being challenged by a crime in which the perpetrator does not care about the sea, and the scale of the action is so enormous that the rule of law needs to stop the act. The left as a party is mentioned in the debate, and it gives me the opportunity to recall one thing: being liberal does not mean having pre-conceived attitudes and answers to societal problems. This also does not mean that one does not dare to re-examine. Rather, it means having a basic attitude that you go into the difficult dilemmas with. The left has never been a party that does not dare take its position because it is unpleasant. We are a party that wants to contribute to responding to the difficult societal challenges. The proposal we are discussing today contains important considerations. These methods are subject to judicial review. Similarly, the requirements shall be verifiable. These are the central liberal principles of the rule of law. The conditions laid down in the proposal shall ensure that the methods are not used in an unprofitable way. And in control of this, the Storting also has a central place through the EOS Committee. Questions have been asked about the importance of being able to use these methods for prevention purposes. But we all know that it turns out that, for example, terrorist attacks are being revealed in preparation, not as it is actually about to take place. The citizens of the State must not be able to risk abuse by their own country, either in peace or in war. Similarly, it is the duty of every State to protect its citizens from the actions of other citizens. With new terrorist challenges and new crime patterns, the legislative assembly is obliged to debate these issues. The issue we are debating today clearly shows that there is a very demanding balance in this reality. But the strenuous exercise in spite of – The Storting has powered this balance. It is possible that, after such a balance, someone can show that they have a more shiny armor than other knights, but most often they have a more shiny armor because it has not been in battle.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e522	I hope that there are some families and relatives who have lost someone as a result of gross organized crime, serious drug crimes, serious crime, etc., who notice that the Socialist Left in particular is not really so concerned with the terrorists, but are more concerned with the insidious. SV opens the door fully with regard to the deflecting methods. What's special about this case and the previous one is that once again we see a gap between the red-green ones that want to be a government option. On Saturday, the red-greens went all the way together, even with the Advance Party, in connection with the treatment of the copyright law. Today we see that the Central Party would not be involved in the dispute law, and in terms of the police method, there is a complete gap between the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party. The representative of Thorkildsen says you're an independent party, and you're not a tail hanger – you'll see what happens at the election. I hope that the voters will notice that some consensus – we can only go back to Saturday and then today, i.e. three things – is hard to get, and that this is the way to vote on some parties that do not have a coordinated line with important issues in the field of justice and crime policy, especially today. When I have been busy using the word ‘clearing’, it is because, as a majority in the vote, we have said: ‘The Courts have an important role to play in ensuring privacy and legal certainty.’ In the debate following the presentation of the proposal, some have raised concerns as to whether the courts are able to fulfil this task, in particular in the prevention cases. The majority trust – and I quote, and have done it all the time, from the setting – ‘The courts have, however, made some clarifications in the legislative text in order to meet the concerns’. There are clarifications that have real meaning, that make it clearer, that make it more precise for the person who wants to enforce this, and there are actually some instances that have been selected to do. I am very pleased that in this case we have managed to achieve a broad settlement, and that there is a solid majority behind the changes we have now made in relation to police methods, and that we ensure that both the police and the police security service have access to methods on strict terms to ensure that the citizens of this country have greater security.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e543	In its speech, the Council of State said that opting out the so-called narrow-track prevention of methodological use means increasing the pressure to criminalise preparatory actions, and the Council of State would not. I actually perceive that the train has passed, but that someone is trying to obscure the truth in the setting as well. It is true that only a short time ago, this collapse passed a new penal code, and then the entire committee asked for the Government to criminalise the preparation of the ‘war crimes, genocides and crimes against humanity, high treason, attacks on the activities of the highest governmental bodies or acts of intervention against other major social institutions, hijacking, sabotage against the infrastructure, gross deprivation of liberty, agreement on slavery, killing or significant bodily damage, agreement on fires, other particularly dangerous destruction or agreement on filth’. I believe that most people here agree that most of these actions will be dealt with with with so high a penalty that coercive measures could be used. So, in addition to opening up a preventive track with regard to methodology and PST, outside the control and control of the prosecution authority, it will only mean providing extra opportunities for interventional methodology use and also increasing the risk of abuse. I have to say that for us who join the media, it is not difficult to see that on several occasions the Council of State has been sabotaged, to say it in good Norwegian. Harald Stanghelle took e.g. the terror example that had been presented several times, saying that this is not an example of why we need to change the law. The daily newspaper, traditionally an ally for the Left, has been slaughtered by the Government. Young Left is deeply disappointed. Governments have even used more examples that have been irrelevant to justify the need for the changes that have been made, for example: Example: Anna Lindh. How to prevent it from killing using the methods that have been introduced now, by allowing abstinence, is completely incomprehensible for SV. There was no one who knew in advance that Anna Lindh would be killed, much less who could possibly carry out the killing. However, those who are in need of such protection are among other things. women who have been engaged by the Council of State, who have been exposed to threats over a long period of time, and where there is a reasonable suspicion that something criminal is going to happen, and that these people are going to be liable to be killed. So on the SV side, we've assessed it so that here it's more important to allow abstinence methods, and so on also provide ordinary people with the protection that many of us magnification representatives and other important people actually enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e555	I understand that the government parties have now started the election campaign in this room. The Dørum Council had several approaches to the earlier today in connection with the dispute law and the characterisation of the Workers' Party's proposals. And now, in this case of police methods, we experience that the Right has started the election campaign. I understand that both of these parties are nervous about the voter's judgment. It's amazing, because if you go back to before the last election, there was no doubt a big gap between the games that make up the government parties today. It was even so big that the voters didn't even know that they were a government option, because then it was the central government that was an alternative to a purely labor party government. So the difference is that we have signaled in advance from the Labour Party and the Red-Green alternative that we are actually a government option, and that the voters can believe that if we come in majority, we will form government. But I understand here today that in this case, which is about police access to the use of repel methods, there has also been a gap in the internal. Because it is a gap within itself when the Right in the Biggest actually goes further in safeguarding privacy and legal certainty than the Left Council has done in its Government Paper. The representative Schou uses the term ‘preparation’, but clarification is what is done in plain notes. In this case, it is not just a matter of comments. In this case, it is a question of using the word ‘preparation’ and at least ‘preparation’ is used in the legal text. The legal text has been amended to ensure greater protection of privacy and legal certainty and to improve judicial control. On the part of the Labour Party, I have to repeat that the changes that have been made are of central importance for us to be able to take part in this proposal at all. We are pleased that the threshold for the use of deterrent methods has now been raised, that judicial control of the general use of coercive measures by the police has been raised, that the use of preventive methods by the police service is being reinforced, and that it is clearly clarified that there is no possibility of monitoring environments on a political basis. We are very pleased with the final result we have reached here in Stortinget, and we are very pleased that the government parties have been as welcome as they have been, to find good solutions for the common good for legal certainty and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e566	I have largely stayed on the matter. I have said that I am pleased that it has become a broad settlement. The party policy started well at the moment when, among other things, Representatives from the Workers' Party and SV needed to talk about Left-Man Dørum. And the Left-Man Dørum, Minister of Justice, has then stated that he has made a proposition that he acknowledges, and has then said that he has responded to the best ability of the Storting, and is satisfied with the constructive solution that Stortinget has come up with. That's the actual summary, and I don't need to polemize against it. I have also quoted the committee's position that the Committee makes a clarification in the legislative text. And that's precisely to get the intentions that go to court. I have quoted that repeatedly, because it is important for me in such a matter as the one we are dealing with today to ensure the conditions relating to the protection of citizens, while at the same time ensuring the principles of legal certainty and privacy. And to sharpen it to: Yes, privacy is weakened for those who are close to committing the very few serious, selected criminal acts that you are talking about, namely terror, organized crime with gross rants, murders, serious drug crimes, killing the servants of the judiciary, murders in connection with the operation of the PST, terror in connection with the PST and intelligence. Of course, I stand by this. As for the legal considerations that have taken place between the representative of Thorkildsen and me, I am aware that the Stortinget has placed an order, but the design of the provisions is something that the Stortinget should deal with when it comes to that point. And I'm very aware that when we dealt with the Terrorist Act in our time, we shrugged off preparatory actions that could be similar to everyday life's actions, and ended up with preparatory actions that were on federal law, that is, some cooperation to commit a terrorist act. That's why I'm ready today too, purely legal, that having a narrow safety valve trail on preventive actions on PST's hand is a better track than criminalising, for example. a filming the chassis on a train. It is the kind of preparatory action that can be quickly pushed against if you do not have this narrow preparatory track. This is what I mean. With regard to the quote used from the Evening Post and used in the public, namely that a person is given intelligence while some are making intensive observations of exposed objects, and while a single person is doing an increased activity, it is not a matter that comes into the obfuscated track because an operator has intelligence information that one cannot use without further notice in a courtroom. One's right in the prevention track, one's right in the terror example that we're trying to prevent. We are precisely in the situation where European intelligence services have stopped up to 30 Madrid-like actions. And I insist: it is better to prevent such a case in the utmost sense than to investigate who has been behind it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e579	I really didn't think I'd say anything more, and let the debate ebb out – because it doesn't work. But when the Minister of Justice, in his last speech again, claims that what has happened is clarifications, then I have to ask him and ask him to answer. In the proposal on page 132, with regard to the change that the majority has now made, the Ministry states that: ‘an additional opinion on the use of methods for prevention purposes would have little autonomy’. It is argued that this provision would have little maritime significance because it has a different track in the Criminal Procedures Act. There has to be something more than a preparation. The fact that the Ministry points out that it has ‘low autonomy’ as legislation must, of course, be that this change is of great importance. It has been a matter of power for us in the Workers' Party that it is a very important basic condition. So my question has to be – and I have to ask the Minister of Justice to answer: what is the background to making such a statement in the proposition that the law, which is now passed, is described as having a ‘low self-esteem’?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e591	The statement on clarification to address concerns about judicial review is a quote from the majority of the Judicial Committee. I expect the committee to support that majority. Then I can quote myself. The answer to the question that was asked to me, ref. letter of 29 April, I have quoted before, but I repeat it again, because I perceive that it is important for the representative of Storberget. I'm saying that the original proposal ‘provides for judicial review in several ways. PST must ask for authorisation and provide evidence to demonstrate that the strict conditions under which the courts may allow the use of methods are met’. So there's a bunch of examples of what that's going to be. And then I'm like, ‘If the Committee considers it desirable to define the terms of the proposal for Section 17(d) in such a way that they reflect even more the intention of good and effective judicial control, it is possible’ — and then to replace what is quoted — ‘if there is reason to examine whether someone is preparing an action’. Such a change would stress that the PST must demonstrate to the Court that in the specific case, there is reason to use legal methods to carry out further investigations. The reason for the investigation must be anchored in objective points of view, i.e.: case data such as observation, tips, document findings or other evidence indicating that someone may be preparing for, for example, a terrorist act.’;» I have already emphatically, in my last post, said that I accept the proposition. I also agree with the answers that I have tried to give to questions from the Committee to the best of my ability. This was an open question that went to court. And what I'm quoting here, the committee has included and inserted into both the legal text and the notes, and I am pleased that the committee has done so. And if anyone wants to make it even clearer, I have made an improvement to a proposal I myself made with this text. And I'm pleased that this improvement has been made by the majority in the Biggest in the way that they have done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e608	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e624	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e631	In the law on amendments to the law on enforcement, the Government proposes rules on the extension of registration of outsourcing transactions in the Løsøreregister and on improving the coordination of outflows from several jurisdictions. The basic element of the proposed scheme is a joint system of procedures for the central government collection centre and the general public, a system under investigation. The majority of the Judicial Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, consider that important considerations are in favour of coordination of wage trends between the various authorities. Today’s system does not allow the authorities to coordinate the approaches they decide to a sufficient degree. This may in some cases cause some to be so large that they are not left with sufficient resources to support themselves and their families. Coordination of the features will also reduce the administrative burden on employers and help employers not to become more aware of the private situation of employees than is necessary. A joint treatment system, which records outlays from different public authorities, will help prevent a debtor from being charged too much or too high, and also contribute to administrative savings for employers. An extended registration of outsourcing transactions in the Leasing Register will improve credit disclosure and counteract unprofitable recovery attempts. After today’s law it is such that in the case of debt recovery through the general actuarial apparatus, interpretations can be decided only through the man in charge of the district where the debtor is domiciled. In view of Norwegian circumstances, it is in the Committee's view a good solution that such matters are coordinated by the culprit who is most close to the debtor. The Committee is aware that there is doubt as to the interpretation of this provision in respect of debtors who receive pay or social security in Norway but who live and stay abroad. In a judgment delivered on 30 July 2004, the Court of First Instance concluded that the provision precluded the general authorities of the public service in such cases from laying down interpretative provisions. The Committee considers this to be unfortunate because, in such cases, the pay and social security benefits will be widely seized. For this reason, the Committee would like to clarify in the legislative text that the rule that outlays can only be decided by the debtor at his place of residence applies only when the debtor is domiciled in Norway. In the case of debtors with repatriation abroad, outlays may be decided by the repatriation officer in the district in which the repatriation agent is domiciled. This clarification makes it more difficult for the debtor to escape claims by living abroad, and it becomes more difficult to escape from his debt by living abroad. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I would like to comment on one aspect of the consultation and time aspect of this matter. The Ministry of Justice sent out a letter of consultation with proposals for legislative changes concerning the coordination of wage trends, with a deadline for consultation on 15 September 2000. Further work on the proposition was suspended pending changes in the organisation of civil justice on the basic plane. The solution chosen by the Government, where registration in the Solver register is to be made via the central government collection centre, differs from that outlined in the letter of consultation in 2000. There it was stated that the businessmen would report these matters directly. While the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party partly wanted to return the case, the majority of the opinion was that the Government had to await the matter of civil justice on the basic plane. It was absolutely necessary for the finalisation of the law on amendments to the law on enforcement to be properly dealt with. The Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party have a different view on the matter, a view that I assume they will explain. So they want to postpone the matter by sending it back and making it more difficult to put in place the changes we have now made. I would also like to comment on what the representative of Greece commented on in his last speech, that the red-green option was split into two of the two cases before which the Justice Committee had discussed. It is also true in this case. SV joins the Progress Party. Then it becomes so that in three of the three cases that the Judicial Committee has had to deal with today, the Workers' Party joins with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e657	First, I would like to say to the representative, Mr Hofstad, that the government parties should be very pleased that the Workers' Party supports the Government's proposal, because otherwise the Government would have had problems getting a majority today, not least in this case. The thing that is now being presented is kind of the last foundation of putting the civil justice in place on the plane. It has been important both for the Workers' Party and for the government parties to put this in place now, so that we can start giving the workers the role they already have, but that will be expanded. There has been some doubt about this matter because the proposition has been somewhat unclear. But through the examination in the committee and through the clarifications we have made in comments, I think we have been made clear what is really in the matter. Let me try to explain it in a proper way: what's in the system is that facilitators are now going to have a joint procedure with the central government collection centre. It is absolutely necessary for a proper computer system to be provided by the county council and the police in this case to have access to the computer system of the central government collection centre. The second thing that was important to put in place, and that was an order order from the Judicial Committee when we dealt with the civil trial on the basic plan, was that we were to get an overview of the coordinated pay lines assigned to employees who are indebted. What has been the problem in the past is that the individual nominees and novices may have awarded wages without knowing each other. So now we get a registration system that gives you an overview. In addition, each member of staff is required to check whether there are other salary trends before making a new salary move. This registration shall be held by the Løsøreregisteren, but this will be done by means of a recording via the computer system of the central collection centre of the State, which transmits it to the Løsøreregisteren. In this case, therefore, it is not, as many have been concerned about, the central body of the State which is to have a case manager function, and which in this case takes over the function of the officials. The responsibility of the central government collection centre alone is to be an organizer and to be responsible for the computer system here. In this way, I think that the majority has managed to clarify this matter so thoroughly that we have put the last foundation in what is now becoming the civil justice on the base plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e670	The legislative changes contained in this proposal have the background to a request for a decision on the coordination of wage levels, which the entire Committee was behind in the course of its proceedings at the Innst. O. No 90 for 2003-2004 on the organisation of civil justice on the ground plane. The purpose of such wage coordination should be to: to protect debtors against unfair pay cuts. By coordinating the different wage rates, one will avoid a debtor being deducted from different creditors and ending up with a payroll payment.It is impossible to cope with. For many employers, there is a great deal of extra work to be done in relation to the requirement to move from different agencies each month. A single requirement will make this job much less demanding.To help improve credit information. A coordinating body that has information about any debt a person has will facilitate a credit check. This will make it easier for credit institutions to discover it if a person who already has major financial problems tries to incur even greater debts. This is all very good purpose. The problem is how to propose them in practice. In the case of the proposal for a decision on requests, it was noted that there is a problem that the general manager and the various specialists do not to a large extent coordinate the remuneration they make. The proposal we are discussing today suggests that one of these strange people should coordinate the different pay lines. This is unfortunate on both a principle and a practical basis. The central government collection centre has the status of a special agent and has a number of different wage trends. The central collection centre of the State has as its task the enforcement of state requirements. As a result, they have a significant interest in coordinating the requirements of different officials. This we believe is fundamentally objectionable. The practical problem of the proposed scheme is that reporting by the various public authorities is first done to the central government collection centre. Thereafter, the central government collection centre sends part of the information to the Løsøreregisteret in Brønnøysund. The transparency and information provision of these reported data shall be made partly by the central government collection centre and partly by the Løsøreregister in Brønnøysund. This system, with dual communication channels, will lead to increased bureaucracy and resource use for users and will also increase the risk of misunderstandings and errors. There could also be confusion about liability. The result of this scheme is that there have been two coordinating bodies, not one, as the Stortinget requested. Nor should it be forgotten that the State Recovery Centre has a poor reputation in three important areas: communication with debtors, appeal proceedings and legal competence. In the position at which the request decision came, there were three problems with today's payroll system: firstly, that the officials do not adequately coordinate their choices; secondly, that employers are charged with excessive administrative burdens; and thirdly, that employers become too aware of employees' private affairs. Of these three elements, it's really just the last one that is fulfilled by the present government proposal. The proposal under consideration today does not therefore meet the request decision of the Stortinget, and SV cannot therefore support it. Neither does the Advance Party. At the hearing held at Stortinget on 11 May this year, five years after the Ministry's own hearing on the matter, there was massive criticism of the proposal. So it was a unison call from the hearing bodies to send the proposition back. The Hearing Officers considered that the Liaison Register would be the correct independent coordinating body. SV has taken this clear advice into account and is therefore promoting two proposals in cooperation with the Progress Party. The first proposal is: «Ot.prp. No 66 [[2004-2005]] Our second proposal is: ‘The decision calls on the Government to promote a new proposition during 2005 for real wage coordination. In particular, it is requested to consider whether this can be done by and recorded by the local public prosecutor. Further proposals are requested for a scheme in which the employer has one overall wage and salary line.’ We are sorry that we did not get the Workers' Party on these proposals, so that we had a majority in Stortinget to send this matter back. I think it was close, but it wasn't easy. I am promoting the proposals that SV has together with the Progress Party, and I should just like to note that unfortunately we do not get a majority for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e712	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e715	It was said from this pulpit not long ago that the government parties and the Labour Party have come to an agreement on several matters. Then I came to think of it as a bishop in one of the dioceses in which I've been employed, said, "Who knows is going to use it." And I think that in this room there has been a good deal of knowledge today. It has led to a broad majority, so that we have achieved results in matters that have become good. I will not say much about the matter at hand, because the rapporteur has done so. She carried out a proper review. I would just like to point out that there are important considerations that advocate coordination of wage trends from the various tax authorities. First, it will reduce the administrative burden on employers, second, to ensure that employers do not become more aware of the private situation of employees than is necessary. Thirdly, it will help to prevent a debtor from being charged too much or too high, and fourthly, it will contribute to administrative savings for employers. But there may also be negative sides, and it has been pointed out to the committee by the Norwegian Civil Service Team at the Central Collection of the Social Security Agency in a letter of 10 May this year. They say coordinated collection can have different unfortunate consequences. For this reason, the majority asks for, and assumes, a thorough assessment of the situation in the course of the work, and that one cannot go further if the issues raised by the team of officials cannot be adequately addressed. Furthermore, it is pointed out, from the majority, that the length of the proceedings of the State Enforcement Centre and the Rana District Court in the event of complaints about outlays is irresponsibly long, and we assume that the Government is taking steps to remedy this. We also believe that privacy concerns are adequately addressed through the solution of the ministry. Finally, there have been cases in the media in recent times that tell us that people move abroad to avoid settling their debts, and that no one can impose on them the funds they have transferred from Norway to the place where they live. We have done something about that in this setting, and it was also explained by the case-rapporteur. I'm not going to repeat it, just point out that the problems now, hopefully, are far on the way. In any case, there is scope for solutions through what is adopted today in relation to those who have tried to escape their debt by settling in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e728	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposals in Ot.prp. No 66 for 2004-2005 on amendments to the Enforcement Act. The aim of the legislative changes is both to improve coordination of interpretations from different authorities and to provide better credit information on outlays to creditors and credit providers. The bill contains rules on the extension of the registration of outsourcing transactions in the Solver register. Today only outlayspans are recorded. With the new rules, credit information agencies, financial institutions, debt collection agencies, public bodies and law firms will have access to information on the layout and business of ‘no outlays’ from the Lösøreregister. This will provide better credit information and help prevent unsuccessful recovery attempts. If a debtor is already registered with a ‘not available for expenses’ business, this is a clear indication that it would be difficult to put a new item in place. A better knowledge of past outsourcing will thus help creditors to save costs, both for creditors and for debtors. When more information is to be recorded, it is important that the data protection of the debtor is protected. This is done both by limiting the amount of information to be recorded in the Solver Register and by deleting outlays after a certain period of time. In addition, the layout arrangements shall be deleted once the requirement has been laid down. The debtor shall also be informed that the outsourcing business will be registered. The transfer of data from the approval authorities to the Løsøreregister will be carried out technically via the central government collection centre in connection with a joint processing system which the Løsørecentralen is developing both individually and by the general public. When examining this system, the competent authorities will see whether the debtor has already been paid out. In this way, there will be a better basis for the assessment of the level of capacity for closure. There is therefore reason to expect that the number of cases with multiple approaches to the same debtor will be reduced, and that there will be fewer cases where the overall move is set too high. This, in turn, will reduce the administrative burden on the obsessive employers and will improve the position of the debtors. I would like to emphasise and point out that the task of the central government collection centre in the registration system relates to the purely technical communication of information from the tax authorities to the Løsøreregister. The collection centre will not be given any new competence with regard to the closure of outlays. I can't see that the central government collection centre will play a double role as a result of their computer systems being used for forwarding information. It is difficult to imagine any conflict of interest between the role of the collection centre as an information intermediary and its role as a creditor representative and a special powers. The availability of information in the process system by the various approval authorities enables them to be given access to more information than those recorded in the Leasing Register and made available to others. The Government will continue to work on the issue of coordination also of the payment of the instalments. If the payment is coordinated, the principal will only have to make one payment for each debtor, or perhaps one payment per. the month for all staff with benefits, which will further facilitate the situation of employers. I have noticed the demands made by the number of committees as prerequisites for such a scheme. The government will base these assumptions on further work on the question. In any case, the changes in the laws that Odelstinget is dealing with today will be an important step towards better coordination of the features. I have also noted the views of the majority of the committee on the processing time at the central government collection centre. I want to raise this question with the Minister of Finance. I am pleased that the committee unanimously agrees to clarify the uncertainty that has arisen regarding access to outlays on debtors with residence abroad. I refer to the Committee's proposal for an adjustment to the Enforcement Act § 7-3. In conclusion, it is actually quite right that the representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, says that what the Workers' Party is doing today – and since we've been a little intense earlier today, I have to say that I'm not using this in any polemic way – is to be logical in relation to what they started with last year, namely to anchor civil justice on the basic plane of the police and thus to ensure a decentralised police, nailed to Norwegian communities. And securing the central government collection centre as an electronic transport agency does not change the fact that the person to meet those who have debt problems is the person. That's the faggot. That's what's the social trust. There is no centralization of that function. It's going to be decentralised, so that when the Workers' Party does this, I'd say they're logical in relation to not just civil justice on the ground plane. They also make sense with regard to nailing a police role that is wider than a narrow role. They also nail a police role that is heavily and properly anchored locally. I will not comment on the vote of others, but just say that the Labour Party is at least consistent from last year to this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e761	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e777	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e784	Very briefly, because it is a unanimous committee that refers to the proposed amendment of the Law of 13 August 1915 No. 5 on the Statute of the Court of Justice. The Committee took note of the assessments on the basis of which the Board of Directors of the Court of Justice was enlarged by two new members and also joined in the draft by the Ministry. The Committee also agrees with the proposal to legislate that the other servants of the Courts should have one representative of the Management Board and otherwise have no comments on the proposal. I therefore recommend a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e813	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Advance Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e822	This issue is partly about the harmonisation of the law on child protection services and the social services law with other laws, but the government also invites us to decide on new measures in the field of child protection. The Committee welcomes the various measures to ensure legal certainty and makes some premises in relation to the areas of action of child protection. I would like to discuss the various points on which there are changes, and finally I would like to address those points to which the Progress Party cannot join. Let's take it all from the beginning: the first concerns internal control obligations for the tasks of municipalities under the Child Protection Act. Through the hearing, most municipalities have joined this point. It is very important for each municipality to ensure compliance with deadlines, follow-up of concerns and follow-up of procedural procedures. It should probably be obvious, but when the county has passed through different municipalities, you have seen that there are deviations, and that is obviously not desirable. Equally important for child protection users is to know that national regional authorities are also to carry out internal controls. This is considered unnecessary by government parties, but the state regional offices are satellites around Norway and have a substantial part of the responsibility for a child being placed. And therefore, in order to be absolutely sure that the different procedures are followed, the majority proposes that national regional agencies should also have internal control obligations. The SV and the Central Party also have a proposal on funding, but this is what I expect them to talk about themselves. So for housing measures for lone minor asylum seekers: here the debate has gone high, but to inform those who are not aware of when and where and to whom the law on child protection services applies, I would quote § 1-1 of the Act: ‘The purpose of the law is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development are provided with the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner, to help ensure that children and young people have safe growing-up conditions.’ Furthermore, § 1-2: «The local scope of the law.The provisions of the law on services and measures apply to all residents of the State.» Furthermore, § 1-3: ‘Who is subject to the law for... children under the age of 18?’ In reality, this means that child protection is the responsibility of minor asylum seekers. If child protection in an area becomes aware that a child without parents in a reception does not have the right, they are obliged to intervene. If they don't, they don't do their job. There is an overall committee that is concerned that the conditions for single minor asylum seekers at the reception stage must be good. We all agree that the responsibility for these children and young people should lie with child protection. But in order not to make decisions that we do not fully see the consequences of, we should hurry slowly, even though the UN presented a report on the issue on Friday. The majority don't say this isn't important. We say that something has to be done, but it has to be done in the right order. We all want children in Norway to feel good, but in order to be sure who has the roles, the majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, believe that the department must come back to the Stortinget with an investigation that clearly clarifies the roles and responsibilities of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The danger of making a change decision today is that no one is left with responsibility, and that unintended consequences cannot at least benefit the minor asylum seekers. The intention has not been achieved, namely that all children should feel good as long as they are in Norway. Another very neglected subject is what the Government is now clarifying in Section 4-16 of the Children’s Protection Services Act, namely that it is important to follow up parents who have lost their children’s care – that parents are not allowed to stand alone in the void, but that they actually receive attention and care. Many parents lose care because they are unable to take care of their children because of mental problems — it would probably also mean that they have problems taking care of themselves. These parents may be even more important to take care of, because otherwise public, for good reason, can be loaded in order to make some people even sicker. So that's a good change we're now making in sections 14-16. So for the furniture racks: the furniture racks are a very good measure for all those who don't feel fully able to take care of their newborn child. The tendency is, however, that there are no longer only mothers who are applying here, but also fathers. So it's going to be a bit stigmatizing to call these offers a midwife. The Ministry has proposed to call this 'parent and child housing measures', but the Committee was concerned that this could be confused with social action. Therefore, a unanimous committee has chosen to call these types of housing and training services ‘Parents’ and ‘Children’s Centres’. Here again, a joint committee has asked the government to review the furniture rooms to see if they keep the standard and quality that the Storting wants. If they do not, the Government must assess the need for regulation and supervision. The Committee is behind most of the amendments to this Act and there should be no doubt that the Committee will provide the most difficult, safe and well-growthed children. But on some points, the Progress Party distinguishes itself from the rest of the Committee, and I will end up talking a little bit about these points. The first is simplification of matters relating to adoption under the Children's Protection Act § 4-20, i.e. adoption without the consent of the biological parents. We have pointed out in previous cases that child protection should always have the eye to return children to their biological parents in the long term, unless there are particular reasons not to do so. The party of progress is very skeptical in determining such important matters in a child’s life. We have seen in the past that the judgements of the council members have not always been correct. Now that we're going to give them extended powers to force children away, we're completely in disagreement. What kind of legal certainty will there be for the children? And what kind of legal certainty will it be for parents? It will break with most of the conventions we've signed up to. When, in commenting on this topic, the majority of the Committee says that the Court of Human Rights has in its practice provided the basis for situations that may require breaking the contact between parents and children, I really wish that examples of this were also provided. You haven't done that, so this practice doesn't all know about. Another point in which the Progress Party cannot join the majority voting is the extended disclosure requirement. We are of the opinion that an extended disclosure obligation will not contribute to greater legitimacy for child protection, rather to the contrary. We are afraid that parents no longer dare to seek help and guidance from other parts of the auxiliaries, for fear that the information will find the way to the Child Welfare Service. Finally, in the case of the county councillors, we discussed the dispute law earlier today. The Progress Party wishes to wind up the counties and to allow care-taking cases to be dealt with in the ordinary legal system. This proposal was promoted at the hearing of the Judicial Committee, and therefore we refer only to the discussion there, so as not to create root and confusion. I now see that the majority has submitted a new proposal for Section 9-2. This is due, however, to the fact that the proposals that have received a majority in the Judicial Committee are now being harmonised with the Child Protection Act. The party of progress does not want membership. We are not afraid to have matters dealt with in the ordinary judiciary, and we are going to vote against this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e887	The Labour Party believes that the choice of living together must be up to each one, but in all forms of life the children are the most important. The Child Protection Act shall ensure and strengthen the rights of the child. When it comes to the life situation of children, as adults, whether we are parents or grandparents, we need to do everything in our power to safeguard the lives of children. Yes, even grandparents' feelings have to come in second order, because we've seen examples of grandparents pushing grandchildren to court to get cohabitation. The child's feelings are the most important thing. I think it is necessary to underline this. The Workers' Party agrees with the Ministry that a provision of the Child Protection Act should be introduced which obliges municipalities to carry out internal controls on the activities. It is important that legal certainty and quality assurance are ensured by the applicable laws and regulations, and internal controls in the Community will capture deviations in relation to the supervision and follow-up of foster homes as well. The Workers' Party would stress that it is a pre-requisite that municipalities are not burdened financially by the introduction of internal controls. Life isn't always as streamlined as anyone seems to believe. For many children, the family is the child's worst enemy. It is often the case that problems arise, and this can lead to the need for children to be moved from their parents. The care that parents should have been able to give the child must be taken over by others. It is therefore very important that there are good foster parents who can provide these children with security in good homes. The Labour Party would stress the need not to weaken new parental contracts, for example: the pension entitlements enjoyed by those parents at present. At the same time, it is important that clear commitments are made by society on how to follow up these homes, so that the conditions for foster homes are not impaired. I would therefore ask the Council of State to ensure that foster parents get good terms, wages and pension schemes. They do a fantastic job, and they deserve honor and thanks. It is a group of children who are, like, floating around in the welfare community, and it is the minor asylum seekers. The Labour Party believes that minor asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group, which should be better cared for than today. The children may have had traumatic experiences, and missing after the parents may be great. In this situation, children need much care and understanding. If the duration of the procedure and the time in which it is received are too long, this will easily have physical and mental consequences for the child. Child protection is primarily the responsibility of all children living in Norway, including minor asylum seekers. Child protection, however, depends on the provision of information on the situation of individual children. Monitoring has shown that awareness notifications do not always reach child protection and that, in some cases, the scarce resources of child protection have gone beyond minor asylum seekers. Nor have the frames around the children worked well enough. The majority therefore consider it necessary to assess the responsibilities, follow-up and organisation of the offer given to minor asylum seekers today. The majority believe that child protection should take over the responsibility for the care of the so-called "union" minors. The Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre once again promote proposals to amend the Child Protection Act, in order to ensure that lone minor asylum seekers and refugees under 18 years of age, in line with single Norwegian children, are protected by the Child Protection Act upon arrival in Norway. I take this up with me the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e906	The representative Eirin Fallet has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e909	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough presentation of the Committee's position. Laws on child protection and social services are laws that affect the important care we should provide to children who are particularly vulnerable in our society. The government’s proposed legislative changes are strongly anchored in the important work on continuous improvement of child protection. The right is satisfied with the majority of the Government’s proposal that municipalities be required to carry out internal control of their tasks under the Child Protection Act. This will contribute to improving the quality of municipal child protection and will also provide a basis for more systematic supervision by the county. I note that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are promoting a proposal to allocate funds to the municipalities for the implementation of this work, and therefore need to stress the following: firstly, the municipalities are already required to control their own business, so this is not in practice a new task. Secondly, the Government of the Proposition has elaborated that municipalities will provide training and guidance for an introductory period and that expenditure will be covered within the Ministry's budgetary framework. I am very pleased that the Government is implementing a statutory obligation for municipalities to assess appropriate housing measures for lone minor asylum seekers, and that this is a clarification of the responsibilities of child protection. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre want the responsibility for housing to be given to the state regional child protection. This proposal considers that there is a major change in the division of responsibilities and tasks between the State and the municipality, and it will greatly affect the municipalities. Right-wing support for the Government's desire to continue to anchor the settlement of these children with municipal child protection, and believes it is important that municipalities have freedom of action in terms of organisational anchoring. The Committee asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with an investigation into how to strengthen asylum recipients for single minors. Unfortunately, some single minors may need child protection measures, and it is very important to ensure that the child receives the individual follow-up – and the necessary measures – needed in the quotation in which the child is located. The right cannot join the proposal of the minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, that single minor asylum seekers be protected by the Child Protection Act upon arrival in Norway. In this context, I believe it is important to point out that both the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child Protection Act apply to all children living in Norway, including, of course, the lone minor asylum seekers. The unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are in a very special situation, as detailed in the proposal. Nevertheless, traditional Norwegian child protection institutions and child protection measures are not necessarily adequate responses to the needs of lone minor asylum seekers in a transitional phase, where it is also unclear whether they should remain in Norway or be reunited with caregivers in their home country. In this context, I would again like to refer to the broad agreement of the Committee on the examination of the strengthening of asylum-seekers, in particular with a view to the care of the lone minor asylum-seekers, and the clarification of roles and responsibilities between the departments concerned. The Child Protection Act and the Social Services Act are as previously mentioned important laws in the care of the vulnerable children. It is, in my view, very positive that there is a majority in favour of making changes to the system of judicial review, so that the procedure time can be reduced and that the procedure time can be simplified in the event of adoption. The right is pleased that the Government has had an impact on important legislative changes, which ensure better control of child protection. There are several areas I would like to affect in my post, but time does not allow it. I therefore refer you to our comments in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e933	The committee has dealt with various issues related to this proposition, and I think it's very good that we got this law to deal with before we end this big period. SV supports the Government's proposal on internal control in municipalities, but we also want the state regional authorities to have the same internal control and are pleased that there will be a majority for it. With regard to access to the provision of entertainment services by biological parents after taking care of them, SV considers that it should only exceptionally be possible to require entertainment contributions for assistance measures under the Child Protection Act – where parents have a good economy, and where parents themselves seek assistance from child protection and have the ability to pay the measure. I want to use most of my contribution to shed light on the situation of minor asylum seekers and refugees. We are again criticised by the UN for discriminating against these children in Norway – the report came on Friday – because we do not allow child protection to be the responsibility for their care. It's embarrassing that we haven't fixed the wrong we're doing to these children. We're criticized for this before. So in the world's richest country, we're left with criticism of breaking the Children's Convention. I refer you to the treatment of Innst. S. No 121 for 2002-2003, where the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party decided that the Government should investigate during 2003 the issue of the Child Protection Act in such a way that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under 18 years of age, in line with single Norwegian children, should be protected by child protection upon arrival in Norway. Actually, that's what this is all about. In the case of children in Norway who do not have caregivers, it is the child protection that enters and takes responsibility for care and assesses the measures to be taken by these children. What happens to minor asylum seekers today is that they come to Norway without that assessment being made. The UDI is responsible for care, and there is no assessment of what measures are needed. That's where the difference lies. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre mainly promoted a proposal that, on arrival in Norway, lone minor asylum seekers should enjoy the same rights as Norwegian children under the Child Protection Act. It is necessary and in line with the Children’s Convention that asylum seekers and refugees without caregivers are given the same legal certainty as other children in Norway. The UDI shall continue to be responsible for the application for asylum, while the child protection shall be responsible for the care of the child. That is why we are once again promoting the same proposal, but as the Progress Party does not now come into support, as they did in 2003. We don't need a new investigation, because we have. It has been completed, and the government has come back with this case without saying that these children will be covered by child protection. The consequence of this is that the reception of lone minor asylum seekers has to be recognised in line with child protection institutions. The criticism of the UN in this report also says that there should be a level playing field, there should be legal equality between Norwegian children and minor asylum seekers. The Municipal Committee, in a majority opinion of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party of the Innst. S. No 185 for 2004-2005, which was discussed a week ago, said that they ‘consider that child protection should take responsibility for the care of the lone minor asylum seekers’, and that they ‘provide that responsibility for minor asylum seekers is transferred to the protection of children’. The committee, by the same majority, refers to this in the vote, and I expect this and the criticism from the UN to be followed up by the Council of States. The investigation proposal under consideration is totally unnecessary, and we have already carried out the investigation. I would also like to stress that SV would like institutions for parents and children to be approved and supervised as child protection institutions, and would like to propose this together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Institutions for parents and children are not currently supervised. That system of supervision was removed by the reorganisation of child protection. Today, very needy children under the age of 18 who have had their own children live in these institutions. Many are already moving in during pregnancy. Mothers who are themselves under child-restraint measures move to their maternity homes, either before or after birth. Legal certainty shall be the same when one child has become two children. Parents’ and children’s centres will provide care, guidance and training in parenting, but I would like to stress that these institutions have a major responsibility for investigating the care of their parents. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e952	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e955	I would first like to stress that it is the Christian People's Party's goal that matters in which children are subjected to care failure should be resolved as soon as possible, while at the same time ensuring the legal certainty of both parents and children. Care failure can have serious consequences for children both in the short and long term. It is not always easy to detect children who are exposed to care failure. Even though someone becomes very visible because they are exaggerating, many also react to becoming introverted and full of guilt. Many of them are also small ‘adults’ who have a major responsibility for the well-being of their parents, for economics and practicalities. Just because these children are often much more responsible than their age should be, it is important that they get a clear care situation as soon as possible. We have to remove the burden from small shoulders as soon as possible. From our point of view, it is essential that the time taken to deal with child protection issues is reduced. I am therefore pleased that a majority of the committee wants a very strict silling of anchors to the law of law. Before entering the law of the law of the law of the child, the child protection cases have been dealt with in the county as well as in the district court. When the case is not in principle, substantial emphasis shall be placed on whether it is likely that the result will be different after the appeal has been dealt with. The general rule will then be treatment in two instances, and this will reduce the overall duration of treatment. I think that's very important. The child’s concern provides clarification as soon as possible as regards the child’s future care situation. Since new dispute laws are not expected to enter into force before 1 January 2007, proposals have been made, which are currently distributed in the Chamber, to include a corresponding amendment to the Law on the Legal Review of County Council Decisions in new Sections 9 to 10(a) of the Social Services Act. This provision will be repealed in parallel with the entry into force of new dispute laws. In addition, I would like to point out that the heading of item 2.9 of the setting has been incorrect. It's not supposed to be the Children's Act, it's the Child Protection Act. With the current Children’s Protection Act, which entered into force on 1 January 1993, the decision-making authority was transferred from municipal children’s protection centres to the county councils in a number of cases. An important purpose of the application of county treatment was to strengthen legal certainty in child protection matters. Research and evaluation have shown that the county system ensures legal certainty in a very good way. The learning system has proved to be flexible and well adapted to these very special issues. That's why I ask myself why the Progress Party wants to wind up the county councils and put the child protection cases to the ordinary courts. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party also raise questions as to whether a rapid release of the child for removal from adoption would be contrary, inter alia, to: The European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. And the Progress Party also proposes to introduce a complete ban on adoption in child protection matters. In certain cases it is necessary, in the interests of the child, to take such an intervention as adoption. In practice, the European Court of Human Rights has argued that there are situations that may require early contact between parents and children. The proposal in the proposal does not imply any change in the conditions under which adoption is granted. The proposal, on the other hand, aims to avoid the unfortunate double-handling of these cases today. The proposal is therefore only a continuation of current practice, by the inclusion of the body that actually takes the decision on adoption. In the case of single minor asylum seekers, the Christian People’s Party is pleased that the proposition underlines the obligation of municipalities to investigate if there are indications that child protection measures may be needed. In line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the individual asylum seeker’s wishes will be emphasised in the assessment of appropriate housing measures. It is important to clarify the responsibility of child protection for unaccompanied minors in reception. The residence of lone minors in the municipalities is currently based on a decision to reside in the individual municipality. The responsibility for the housing and implementation of housing and care measures for lone minors is – in the same way as for Norwegian children – municipal responsibility. This also applies to measures based on the Child Protection Act. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers be given equal legal certainty and ensure the same quality of the offers they receive from public authorities as other children living and staying in Norway. In order to ensure that this is followed up, the majority of the Committee has proposed that the Ministry of Children and the Family, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, should examine how the asylum recipients of single minors can be strengthened. On behalf of five parties, I address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e985	The representative of Ola T. Loan has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e988	The revision of child protection laws and social services laws is based on the Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 40, on the protection of children and young people and the selection of Befring’s NOU report on the protection of children. That's how we meet ourselves in the door in a positive way, because part of the proposals come from the big crowd. There was broad support in the Ministry’s proposal to introduce internal controls in measures under the Child Protection Act. Unlike the Government, the Central Party will also be subject to the requirement of internal control of child protection measures under the Child Protection Act. The national audit's coverage of many regrettable aspects of child protection implies that we must do our utmost to ensure that child protection measures are good and double-checked by internal control. There are considerable differences in the scope of action under the Child Protection Act in municipalities of different sizes, and many municipalities already have different systems and levels of internal control in this area. That is why the Central Party believes that there may be a need for state support for the conversion and the introduction of satisfactory internal control. In order to ensure that this control can be carried out in a good way and that the control should not go beyond other tasks in the municipalities, the Central Party proposes that funds be set aside for the implementation of the control itself, to which municipalities may apply for support on an individual basis. When the government party in its comments indicates that the Ministry claims that there is money for training and guidance during the period of introduction, in order to further claim that internal control cannot be seen as a new task for the municipalities, the one appoints the other in its entirety. I am pleased that the Government has followed up the Befring selection's proposal when it is the responsibility to follow up parents after taking care of them. It is by no means a very traumatic event for both parents and children. In some cases, children should also be brought back to their parents. Both for parents and for children, I think it is important that parents too be taken care of in this difficult process. The Central Party therefore supports the Government’s proposal to clarify the responsibility of the Child Welfare Service to follow up parents after taking care of them. But here, too, the Central Party sees the need to add — as some of the hearing authorities also say — the need to provide the child-restraint services with financial resources. Of course, the centre party is summed up in the change in the old-fashioned change of ‘mother’s home’ to ‘Parents’ and ‘Children’. It's a better name, which means that not only mothers may need help as new parents, but that there may also be single fathers or couples who have this need. The centre party has been occupied by the uncertainty that has been surrounding the operating situation of the mother homes, such as the mother's home. Aline Children's Centre in Oslo. We have therefore proposed a review of the purpose and content of mother's homes. We want an assessment of the need for regulation and supervision of measures, as well as an assessment of their operational needs and the economic situation. We believe that it is important that the quality of this measure is ensured in line with child protection institutions. The Centre Party has also seen that Aline Children’s Protection Centre has had a high professional status in its work, and believes that it is right to consider whether to grant Aline Child Protection Centre the status of a national centre of expertise with specific competence in drug abuse and parents/children. The centre party believes it is very unfortunate that parents should be required to care for their children after the child has been placed outside the home after a child protection decision. We are particularly concerned that this could lead to a reluctance to take voluntary measures in the field of child protection, and to cooperation problems with parents where children are under the protection of their children. As a result, children in need of relief may not receive it or take longer before the measures are implemented because of financial consequences for parents. We also think it is unfair to parents who have children like this. have anorexia or needing entry into a psychiatric institution, should not be required for a dependant, but if you have a child with behavioural or drug problems coming to a child protection institution, then parents should have to pay. It's hard to see the logic of this. It may appear as if it is a disguised form of property. I'm surprised that the Workers' Party and SV support this. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Centre Party. I would also like to inform you that the Center Party is voting against Section 9-2, about parents' maintenance obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1015	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1018	I am pleased that the recommendation of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee at the Innst. O. No 115 for 2004-2005 is broadly in line with Government proposals in Ot.prp. No 64 for 2004-2005. The purpose of the amendments is to ensure that children in need of post-law measures are provided with high quality measures, while ensuring that the legal certainty of children and their parents is high. The proposal on internal control obligations for municipalities shall ensure compliance with laws and regulations and thereby contribute to the provision of assistance and follow-up to the children they need. I am pleased that the committee joins the proposal, and I will also follow up the committee's proposal on internal control obligations for state regional authority, although I believe that such a legislative act is unnecessary. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with the proposal to abolish the unfortunate double-treatment of child-protection issues. I can assure you that this amendment does not compromise the legal certainty of neither children nor parents. The Committee has also agreed with the proposal that, in the context of the settlement, the municipality should be obliged to offer to lone minor asylum seekers an appropriate housing measure based on an assessment of the specific needs of the individual. The majority of the Committee has also asked the Government to investigate how the asylum recipients of single minors can be strengthened. I understand that Stortinget wants such an investigation, and I am pleased that the majority believes it is more important to focus on the needs and quality of the offer than on where responsibility is anchored and how the offer is organised. The government is concerned that the offer of unaccompanied minors in reception must continue to be strengthened. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the government has already done a lot to improve the situation. There are separate receptions for minors, supervisory arrangements are being set up, police certification is required, etc. The Committee agrees that the concept of'mutter house' should be amended, but proposes a different concept from that of the ministry. I think the content of the measure is much more important than what is mentioned, but I have noticed that the Committee wants a review of the furniture and an assessment of the need for regulation. Of course, I will follow up on this proposal. The Government's proposal that the judicial review of county council decisions be carried out directly before the Lawyers' Court has not been endorsed by the Committee. I wish the government's proposal had been accepted. At the same time, I am pleased that the Committee has proposed an intermediate solution which involves the introduction of a silage rule for appeals to law enforcement, which reduces the overall duration of proceedings in child protection cases. It was precisely this that was the purpose of the Government's proposal, and I am therefore pleased that the Committee agrees that considering the children makes it necessary to change today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1035	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1038	The situation for children is constantly up for debate. It also shows reports coming from the United Nations, where we are criticized in different ways. It is such that treating child protection laws, child protection and that kind of thing. My question to the Council of State is, isn't it time we took some overall action on child protection? Still, in Norway, we operate with a lot of shots between the different people who work with children with behavioral problems. The Progress Party has previously indicated that we want to put down child protection as our own institution in today's form and rather move towards what Denmark has, where one has removed the shots between child and youth psychiatry, child protection, police and school, so that a more coordinated competence can be given to each child and not operate with four or five directories on each child. Does the Council agree that it is perhaps time to consider an overall approach in terms of child protection and the best interests of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1049	That's an interesting question. I feel that this is exactly what we did on the part of the Department and the Government when we brought up the issue of the Child Protection Act. The many measures, proposals, discussions, changes in legislation and guidelines, etc. Which has come, bottoms up just that we had a total review after the Befring Committee's NOU for a few years ago, and that's what we're now following up on. But I agree with the representative that it is very important that we get better coordination between the different levels of child protection. There's also one of four pillars in it that I sometimes call the new child protection. It's just a short time since we, for example, provide a new circular on professional secrecy, information rights and disclosure obligations. We will be coming soon with a new guide on violence in families and violence against children and young people, in order to achieve better coordination. We are also in the process of implementing a comprehensive monitoring of relief measures and the various services aimed at children and families.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1060	Professor of Law, Kirsten Sandberg, was in the national committee last year to monitor care failure and abuse in child protection institutions. She says that the legal shortcomings we see today in the situation of the lone minors are very similar to how it has been found that it was for the orphanage children 40–50 years ago. She recognizes many of the legal security deficiencies of these institutions, and it worked incredibly poorly. What happens is that you have not interpreted around the asylum recipients. The children are not on their own. They have no channels to complain. There are closed institutions with little transparency from society around them. This provides for the possibility of care failure and abuse on a relatively large scale — just as it did for child-restraint children 40-50 years ago. But what I'm asking is, how will the Council of States now respond to the criticism that comes back from the United Nations, which clearly says that we are discriminating against these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1067	There are strong opinions from Kirsten Sandberg on care for minor asylum seekers. I think we all agree that care has not been good enough. That is also why we have put in place a number of measures that are linked precisely to the situation of so-called 'union asylum seekers' in this country. We have made our own arrival reception. We have specially arranged reception. We set up individual supervision. We also need a police record for employees and a number of other measures. It's going to be too far to get into everyone, but there's a lot of things going on. Of course, the ministry will follow up on what is stated in the UN report, which the ministry received only today. Personally, I haven't had the opportunity to look at it yet, but I hope that this UN report that we have received today also contains the good answers to many of these critical points that were initially addressed in an alternative report to the UN. I also expect the measures we are taking to be well mentioned there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1076	Municipalities may require parents to make a child's contribution when their child is located outside the home as a result of a decision taken under the Children's Protection Act. It can only be required if this is considered reasonable from the point of view of parents’ financial situation. The question to the Council of State is: why is it that parents, such as do children with drug problems or behavioral problems, and who need treatment in a child-rescue institution, are required for contributions, while parents who have children who need treatment in a psychiatric hospital or in psychiatric institutions are not required to pay support? Can the Council of State explain to me why we have this difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1083	In this motion for a resolution, we have not tabled proposals by the Ministry to amend what has been a practice and enshrined in the Children's Protection Act since it was adopted in 1992. This maintenance obligation specifically related to the protection of children and based on the Child Protection Act was also enshrined in the 1953 Act. That is why we have not proposed any change in reality in this case either. The proposal we have here is solely to transfer the authority to determine contributions from the county council to the grant board. So the issue raised by the representative Sollied Överaas has not been assessed at all. That's not what this matter is essentially about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1090	We have heard representatives from the Christian People's Party talking about the fact that the human rights courts have, in practice, argued that there are situations that may make it necessary to break contact with the parents, i.e. forced adoption. I could imagine asking the Council of State if she believes that forced adoption helps to strengthen the legitimacy of child protection, and whether the level of conflict between relatives and children and child protection is being kept down by introducing such a rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1095	Adoption and enforcement is a very serious intervention. These are very few things this year. In concrete terms, at its starting point, the county council must have taken a decision to take over the care of the child. There are strict conditions to take care of. In addition, according to Section 24, parental responsibility must also be excluded from parents. The best and mildest approach of the child requires that decisions to waive parental responsibility may be taken only if strictly necessary. These are very strict terms. That's why it's not about a – let's say – quick release of the child to adoption. On the contrary, I must say that we are more often criticised for the fact that, in some cases, there are too strict conditions and that it goes too late for the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1105	Many of the children under the care of child protection are traumatised, abused and abused. Most of the children are placed in foster homes. Recently, several of these children have been denied psychological assistance and other necessary treatment by one or both parents who have failed to care for the child. These children often have extensive mental problems. It is therefore unreasonable that biological parents can refuse to give children the treatment they need. This is very serious and we are proposing this in the vote. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it should not be a violation of the Children's Convention that children do not receive adequate treatment when they need it. It says clearly that they have the right to do that. What will the Council of State do with this very serious problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1112	First, I would like to point out, because the committee has been concerned about it, that in the case of medical care and drug treatment, there is no need for regulatory changes because, under the law in force, child protection has access to consent to medical care for children under care, regardless of the consent of their parents. Decisions on the treatment of drug abuse may also be taken under the Children’s Protection Act, regardless of parental consent. So it's true that in the case of psychiatric treatment, it's according to the right parents who have to consent to this, even though child protection has taken over. I agree with the representative that there may be issues that are problematic and difficult. This is a question that we from the Government are going to work on further. This, of course, is the primary responsibility of the Minister of Health, but we work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1119	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1124	The reason why I take the floor in a three-minute post is that I want to clarify the view of the Advance Party on the situation of young lone asylum seekers. It is true that we have been together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party in the past on proposals that go on the distribution of responsibilities, but in the course of the day, when the situation of these children is debated and transparent, it is clear that it becomes more demanding to be a politician, demanding to find the right measures. That's what the Progress Party is trying to do now, but I'm going to say that there's no doubt about the starting point for the Advance Party: in the case of children who are separated from their biological parents somehow, the first priority is for us to bring together children and biological parents. It will in principle always be the best for the child and the best for the biological parents — regardless of whether they are ethnic Norwegian children, or whether they are young lone asylum seekers. This UN report is mentioned in several contexts, especially by SV, which uses only the one part for which Norway is criticized in the case of young lone asylum seekers, and I have allowed myself to look into the report myself. I have seen many reports from the UN in the past where Norway has received criticism. We have had massive criticisms, especially in relation to child distribution issues. We have had massive criticisms that child protection has been too fast in the lab and has gone in and taken care of children, and now we get criticism that we do not have enough care for asylum children. However, in the same report, Norway is also criticized for not actually doing enough to unite children and parents. We also get criticism that we're doing a little too little to prevent children and parents from being split up. So I think we have to see the whole of that kind of report. The reason why the Progress Party now wants a larger investigation of this is what has emerged in the debate, and I personally doubt whether child protection has enough competence in relation to these children. We also ask the question, is there enough competence in the UDI? That's the kind of question we need to clarify, also in relation to a line to the Council of State instead, in order to see this in a larger context, where both police, school, social services, and child and youth psychiatry have to enter into the picture and evaluate. It has not been investigated before, even if SV claims it. It has not been investigated in the past. It must also be of interest to SV to investigate this, so that we can put in place the right measures, so that we do not pulverise responsibility between several institutions. Then it may be that we fall on an important decision, for once, when it comes to finding out what's best for children, whether it's ethnic Norwegian children or whether it's asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1133	I'm not going to extend the debate. I just want to correct an error in the setting on page 18, second column, under the first sentence of section 4-4, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following: In the fourth line, it says in italic ‘institution or in housing measures for parents and children’. Now the majority has decided to call it 'the centre of parents and children. So I want to ask that it be addressed to ‘institution or in the centre of parents and children’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1143	It's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1146	Now reference has been made to the UN report, which was presented on Friday, on unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. That's fine, but the same report says that the Norwegian authorities take the children from their parents. We get a massive criticism that we all too often divorce parents and children. In fact, the SV did not say anything about it in total. It has to be at least as critical and applies to a lot of children. The representative Lånker wondered why the Progress Party was so sceptical about both letting the county members sit with responsibility in relation to adoption and also at all wanting a county member. I can be reasonably brief and remind this Chamber that a decision was once made in Strasbourg on a matter that went under the name Adele case. That's where the parents got their condolences. The child was to be moved home. The Norwegian authorities did not take into account what the court said, and in fact they adopted this child away, despite the fact that the Strasbourg Court had given parents a say in the matter. That's why I'm skeptical. I could be tempted to ask those who call for forced adoption, if they can only mention once when it's right to force a child? I have a deep understanding that when children do not have biological parents, they can be adopted. I understand that, but I don't understand that when children have biological parents, and these parents don't want their child to be adopted, it's legitimate to force a child to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1157	I get criticism from the representative of the Progress Party that we have not taken up all the other points we have received from the UN. That's because we had 5 minutes to post. But we have proposals in place that specifically apply to minor asylum seekers, and that is what we are dealing with in this matter. Of course, I fully agree with the representative that we should follow the Children's Convention and that we must look closely at all the points that have now been made in the report. I expect both the Council of State and the Department to do that. But what I think is serious is that when these children come to Norway, no one assesses them well enough in relation to what they need for treatment and what they need for action. Some people may well be able to live in reception for minor asylum seekers, but it is true that no one is going in and assessing what these children need and that they are not being treated, which is serious. There are also many children who stay away in Norway every year, without knowing where it will be, and without finding it again. We know that. That's what the Red Children have pointed out to our committee several times. I want to raise another matter. There is also a violation of the Children's Convention. There are many children in this country now who do not receive child protection measures because of their finances. That's something we've been raising with the Council of State for several hours, and many of us in the Committee have been concerned about. In fact, around the world there are reports, both from national child protection and from municipal child protection, that there is an economy that governs the measures, not the need of the individual child. I've been looking at Eastfold, which is one of the states that is most heavily burdened with child-restraint measures. We have many children on measures in Eastfold. But despite the fact that there are many more messages coming to child protection, it is that we are, as a percentage, granting fewer measures than we did before. When child protection officers around the country say that the economy is the driving force behind the measures, not the child’s needs, there is also a violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I am very pleased that we clarify in this legal text that biological parents are to be followed up after child protection has taken care of, because biological parents are to be a resource for their children, even after taking care of them. As the representative of the Progress Party was involved, it is a major intervention in the life of the biological parents and in the life of the child. Many parents will need different measures and treatment to be a resource for their children and to achieve important cooperation with child protection at the best of their children. But we think it's absolutely necessary to give money, because it's not much of a deal from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1172	First, I want to praise our child protection and our child protection staff, who are doing a fantastic job in the municipalities. The economy is not the one to control child protection measures. If a child needs help, the child should be provided with help. There are time limits in respect of notifications received. They shall be examined within one week. There are time-limits for the implementation of measures. I'm glad we have an external exposure, to the extent that someone feels that there are some longer people in the system who say that you can't spend money. But the Children's Protection Act is clear. Time and again, we have seen that child protection spending is increasing in many municipalities, and also in the state, as we are increasingly saddened – we are told – to have more children in need of help. So over to minor asylum seekers and the claim that there is no screening or investigation. I have to be allowed to list a number of actions – I hope the printers will be able to follow along. In addition to having own receptions and departments, separate requirements have been developed for the receptions. All departments are required to have children’s professional competence. Technical guidelines for work have been developed. Cooperation with the Nic Waals Institute has been established, with a view to developing competences in psychosocial work and monitoring at the Spring and Wvalstad arrivals, which are specifically targeted at minors. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the UDI have jointly provided funds to the Centres for Crisis Psychology Bergen to develop a permanent procedure for monitoring traumatic exposure and psychological sequelae in refugee children. An individual monitoring and action plan from the UDI has been prepared for use in reception to identify the situation and needs of the single minor. The plan contains an action plan for the stay at reception. The plan shall also specify whether cooperation with the protection of children, the PPT or other professional bodies of the municipality of destination has been established. UDI set up in our professional advisory group to assist in quality assurance of the offer of unaccompanied minors in reception. UDI is now preparing proposals for the method of monitoring unaccompanied minors in reception, using the methods of child protection. It is proposed to introduce police certification requirements for staff in state asylum recipients. This will also help to strengthen the legal certainty of lone minors. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has recently clarified in a circular that the municipal child protection service has a responsibility for single minors in the reception of asylum if they need action under the Child Protection Act. We have also set a number of deadlines for the duration of the stay of children in the reception of asylum. This is not an exhaustive list, but it's some of what we've actually done and been doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1187	May Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1190	Only to clarify it once more: in the case of any child living in this country who does not care for parents or close relatives, child protection enters and assesses the situation and offers the child the action it needs. In the case of minor asylum seekers, the UDI is responsible for care. There have been several reports that it is not an interpreter, that the children are not told how they are doing. There has also been a matter in Moss, as the Council of State knows. In the case of the asylum reception for minor asylum seekers at Vårli, there have been at least eight to ten communications on child protection. And child protection refuses to go in, because this is also a resource issue. The local child protection service that is already in work does not have the capacity to enter and deal with these matters. There's quite a crass criticism now from the United Nations, so I wonder, what will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1198	Of course, the Department and I want to put ourselves into the UN report and see what it says, and analyze it, and of course do what we can to make the situation of child protection good enough for everyone. This is not just about child protection, it is also about other areas of service provision. When it comes to the Moss case, which is not handled well enough, as was referred to here, it is almost tempting to say that I want to contact the County Council to investigate the matter, because it is very serious when you say that there is something missing in the Child Protection Service here. I don't hesitate to do this, if there's a need for it. That's the way we can figure things out and do it better. And then I have to stress: there is no automatic way that the Child Welfare Service takes care of Norwegian children who do not live with their parents or who do not have biological parents alive. The responsibilities of the Child Protection Service shall only enter into force if the child is uncarried at all, or there is reason to believe that the child needs a measure under the Child Protection Act. In early Norway, the care of the lone minor is currently provided by the State at the UDI. And if the single minor needs other measures under the law, he should receive such measures in line with Norwegian children. Then I think we agree that there has not been a good enough offer in the receptions for all lone minor asylum seekers. It's not that long since you didn't have the specific receptions, but you lived together in usual reception. Then I have also listed a number of measures that the Government has implemented, and measures that we are in the process of implementing, and that will be better. I think it would be good for us to have an investigation where we need to see the full scope of the offer to underage lone asylum seekers. Then we might come back to another debate where we also take into account that after all, it has happened incredibly well. We're not in the goal, I'm going to be the first to recognize it, but we're working systematically and intensively to improve the situation. It does not sound like the Government is doing anything at all, as the previous representative said. I think that's wrong, and it upsets me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1211	I would like to commend the Council of State for what has been done in the context of caring for minor asylum seekers. Governments have framed a lot of good measures, and of course we should be grateful for them, because there has been bad care, to say it like that. But as the Council of State also correctly pointed out, it could be better. And I can't understand, since so much has been done, and since the Council of State also has the goal of doing it even better, that child protection couldn't be that instance, because they have a good and solid competence. I also, like the Council of State, want to give commendation to all those who work in the field of child protection. It's tough thanks, and it won't be easier over the years. So I think we should at least cost it to us when we discuss the Child Protection Act. So I want to say in this context that the state has taken on a great deal of responsibility, and that may make it easier for child protection to work at the local level, because it is not easy to be employed in child protection in a small municipality where everyone knows everyone. To the representative of the Progress Party, I would like to say that I do not believe at all that there are excessive child-restraint workers who adopt children with coercion. This is such a tough situation for both the parents, the child and those who work with those things, that I think there are actually very few cases where you force children away. And I'll let myself say, since I've been working in the business, that maybe you should take more kids and save what's left to give your kids a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1220	I think it is important, first and foremost, to focus on the needs and quality of the offer of underage lone asylum seekers, much more so than how to organise this work. The most important thing is the content. So today, minor asylum seekers are something more than child-restraint children, to put it that way. They have completely different needs. They are in a situation such as asylum seekers, often with unexplained age, with unexplained identity and with the specific needs that often result from being on the run and applying for residence in another country. It is clear that these conditions are not primarily the protection of children who are competent to care for them. The asylum seeker process itself and the legislation around it are the UDI or people with refugee competence who can do better. The UDI has further tasks, knowledge and networks in terms of tracing, because it is also often necessary to try to track down parents; it may be about return work, and of course also settlement in municipalities. This competence does not have the right to child protection. This is also why we feel that the most important thing for the Government has now been to put in place measures directly related to the quality and assistance of minor asylum seekers. They need child protection in some contexts, but they do not need at least – and they will always need – people with a high level of refugee competence in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1227	I really didn't intend to ask for the floor again, but the representative Fallen provoked me a little. She made it sound like I accused the child protection workers of forcing them to adopt children away. Of course that's not the case. That's what the authorities are doing. The child protection workers are, as the representative Fallen would have said, laborers who do a good job from the frames given to them. And that's where the whole point lies, that we have to give the child protection workers the framework to work to ensure the child's rights. Yes, fortunately, very few people are forcibly adopted away, but it does not free me from the question of what good reason it is to be coerced away when you have biological parents alive. The representative of the Fall also said that more children should have been taken. I cannot agree with my best wishes. But if conditions had been arranged so that parents had received help much earlier, we might have been able to take fewer children – if parents and children had been helped in the home and you didn't have to go and be on the heel all the time and be so in deficit when it comes to anxiety messages, that children actually suffer in their homes. If we had given the financial framework to the child protection workers, including the legal frameworks, and not taken so many children, but actually helped them at home, I think the world would have become a much better place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1234	Eirin Fallet has had the word twice and gets a speaking time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1237	I just want to say that giving child protection workers and child protection good framework conditions and taking preventive action, I very much agree. But it also costs money, and it has to do with donations to the municipalities. I just mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1242	Several have not asked for the word. [[See page 953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1255	The Odelstinget would then be ready to go to a long voting on the case no. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1263	During the debate, 34 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-11, by Hans Kristian Hogsnes on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 12, by Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 13-21, by Hans Kristian Hogsnes on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 22 and 23, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 24-28, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 29–32, by Heikki Holmås, on behalf of Socialist Left Party proposal No. 33, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 34, from Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1335	President! For an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1342	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1345	I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote against the proposal for the third paragraph of Section 13-3 of the vote. So a case study: In the letter from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of 27 April 2005, which is included as an attachment on page 93 in the setting, unfortunately, page 2 is missing. But they failed in the proposition that the department has taken into account in the letter, correctly incorporated in the settings' comments and suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1353	It was supposed to be reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1402	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 1 to 1 (e) shall be replaced by the following:(e) contributing to an inclusive working life which best meets the needs of workers, businesses and society.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1577	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 1 to 8 shall be replaced by the following:Worker and employer For the purposes of this Act, the employee shall mean any person who performs work in another person's service. [[1]] [[2]] For the purposes of this Act, the employer means any person who has employed an employee for the purpose of performing his or her duties. The provisions of this Act concerning the employer shall apply mutatis mutandis to the manager of the enterprise in the place of the employer.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1635	§ 1-10 is now, after previous voting, § 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1647	We shall then vote on proposal No. 26, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2-3 are replaced by the following: Obligations of the worker.Section 2-3, first paragraph, the new last sentence is replaced by the following:In addition, the worker shall assess the need for protective equipment required for each job.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1721	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 13, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 4 are replaced by the following:’. Workers have the right to notify critical business conditions in a loyal manner.2. Reimbursement against workers who give notice after the first subparagraph is prohibited.’ The progress party has notified that they support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1843	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 14, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 3 to 3 second paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the occupational health service shall assist the employer, the employees, the cooperation body referred to in Chapter 7 and the safety officer in creating healthy and safe employment.» [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1903	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4-1, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: the work environment in the establishment shall be fully sound on the basis of an individual and overall assessment of factors in the working environment which may affect the physical and mental health of workers. [[1]] The safety, health and work environment standard shall be developed and improved at all times in accordance with developments in society.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e1995	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4-4, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Physical work environment factors such as building and equipment conditions, indoor climate, lighting conditions, noise, radiation, etc. must be fully sound in the interests of the health, environment and safety of workers.» [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2077	There is an aberrant proposal, No 15, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 5 to 1, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: the register shall be available to the Labour Inspectorate, the Protection Ombudsman, the occupational health service and the cooperation body referred to in Chapter 7. ‘... [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2265	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 16, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 6-1 to 6-3 shall be replaced by the following: Obligation to choose a data protection agent One or more data protection agents shall be selected in all establishments subject to the law. [[1]] In the case of fewer than 10 employees, the employer and the trustee may agree in writing to a different scheme, including that there shall be no protection officer. After a concrete assessment of the situation in the establishment, the Labour Inspectorate may provide that he/she shall nevertheless have a safety representative. [[2]] Activities with more than one protective agent shall have at least one main protection agent. The primary protection officer shall coordinate the activities of the protection ombudsmen. [[3]] The Ministry may lay down detailed provisions on protection ombudsmen and chief protection officers, including on the selection, organisation and working time.§ 6-2 The protection ombudsman's duties The protection ombudsman shall, within his/her field of protection:(a) take care of the interests of workers in matters relating to the working environment;(b) ensure that the activities are organised and maintained and that the work is planned, organised and carried out in accordance with the provisions laid down in and in accordance with this Act;(c) assist in the planning and implementation of measures which have an impact on health, the environment and safety, inter alia in the performance of systematic health, environmental and safety work. [[1]] [[2]] If a safety officer becomes aware of circumstances that could lead to an accident or health hazard, the safety officer shall immediately notify the workers on site and to the employer or his representative, unless the safety officer himself averts the danger. The employer shall provide the data protection officer with an answer to the notification. Where the notification is not taken into account within a reasonable period of time, the data protection officer shall inform the Labour Inspectorate or the cooperation body in accordance with Chapter 7 of the Act. [[3]] The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the duties of the Protection Ombudsman.§ 6-3 Right of the Protection Ombudsman to stop dangerous work If the Protection Ombudsman considers that there is an imminent risk to the life or health of workers and the danger cannot be contained in any other manner without delay, the work may be stopped until the Labour Inspectorate has determined whether it can continue. [[1]] [[2]] Work may only be stopped to the extent deemed necessary by the Protection Ombudsman to avert danger. [[3]] The suspension and the reason for it must be notified without delay to the employer or his representative. The Protection Ombudsman shall not be liable for any damage caused to the activities resulting from the cessation of the activities referred to in the first subparagraph.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2333	Section 6-4, first sentence of the first paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-4 shall be replaced by the following: in construction, in loading and unloading operations, and otherwise, when specific conditions so require, the Ministry may provide for separate local protection agents.’; [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2366	Section 6-5, first paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Articles 6 to 5, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: the employer shall ensure that the safety officer is trained as necessary for the proper performance of the job. [[1]] The Ministry may prescribe further training requirements.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2450	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 17, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 7-1 to 7-3 shall be replaced by the following:§ 7-1 Cooperation body for health, environmental and safety issues Establishments which regularly employ at least 50 workers shall have a body for cooperation on health, environmental and safety issues. [[1]] The employer, employees, safety representatives and occupational health services shall be represented in the body. It shall contribute to the implementation of a fully sound working environment and monitor developments in matters relating to the health, environment and safety of workers. [[2]] The first subparagraph shall apply to establishments with between 20 and 50 employees, where one of the parties to the establishment so requires. Where the working conditions so warrant, the Labour Inspectorate may decide to set up the body referred to in the first subparagraph in the activities of fewer than 50 workers. [[3]] The Ministry may prescribe the calculation of the number of employees in an establishment.§ 7-2 Establishment of a cooperative body by agreement The employer and the trustees of the employees as well as the chief protection officer may enter into a written agreement on cooperation in accordance with § 7-1. [[1]] [[2]] The agreement shall include at least:(a) tasks and powers;(b) organisation of work;(c) selection or appointment of representatives;(d) termination and amendment of the agreement. [[3]] The trustees eligible for the agreement referred to in the first subparagraph shall be chosen by a general majority vote. One or more trade unions representing, individually or in combination, a majority of employees may instead identify those to conclude such an agreement. [[4]] The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the selection and designation according to the third paragraph.§ 7-3 Work Environment Committee In activities which are subject to cooperation pursuant to § 7-1 and which have not agreed on cooperation bodies pursuant to § 7-2, a working environment committee shall be set up. [[1]] [[2]] The Agency shall follow the systematic work of its health, environmental and safety activities and may require documents and reports relevant to its work. [[3]] The work environment committee shall be kept informed about and discuss:(a) plans which may have a significant impact on the working environment, such as rationalisation and other forms of conversion, working time arrangements, introduction of new technologies, change of working methods, etc.,(b) measures that may make the activities more inclusive for workers with disabilities and older workers,(c) the organisational and psychosocial environment of workers,(d) occupational health and internal protection services,(e) training relevant to the working environment. [[4]] If the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers it necessary to protect the lives or health of workers, it may decide that the employer shall implement concrete measures to improve the working environment within the framework of the provisions of or in accordance with this Act or take action to clarify the existence of a health hazard. If the employer does not comply with the decision, employees’ representatives in the sample may require the employer to refer the matter to the Labour Inspectorate. [[5]] The Working Environment Committee shall be composed as defined in Sections 7 to 1. Employers and employees shall have the same number of representatives in the sample. [[6]] The head of the sample is elected every two times by the representatives of the employer and employees. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules concerning the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, including the selection, procedure and working time.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2563	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 23, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 8 to 1 shall be replaced by the following: in establishments in which the elected representatives are appointed, the employer shall inform and discuss matters relevant to the employment of employees with the elected representatives of the employees.» [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2714	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 27, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 10-2, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: the employer shall seek to facilitate flexible working hours when the employee so requests.» [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2765	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 6, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 10 to 4 second paragraph are replaced by the following: in the case of work of a passive nature, a longer general working time may be agreed in writing than that resulting from the first subparagraph. [[2]] The general working time must not exceed 13 hours in 24 hours and 48 hours in seven days. The extent to which home watch and the like shall be included in the normal working hours shall be determined by written agreement between the employer and the employee.The fifth and sixth paragraphs of the vacancy shall be the third and fourth subparagraphs.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2802	For § 10-4, fifth paragraph, which now becomes the third paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 29, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 10 to 4 of the fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the general working time shall not exceed nine hours in 24 hours and 36 hours in seven days for: [[4]] a) full-time shift work and comparable roundwork,b) three-part round: work where shifts change between day, evening and night, involving work at least every three Sundays. The sum of guards falling in the evening, night and Sunday shall represent at least 1/3 of the number of guards, c) underground work in mines, tunnel operations and underground detonation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2842	Section 10-4, sixth paragraph, now becomes the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2865	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 7, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 10 to 5 are replaced by the following: the employer and the employee may agree in writing that the normal working time may be arranged in such a way that, during a maximum period of one year, on average, it does not exceed that prescribed in Sections 10 to 4, but that the total working time does not exceed 13 hours in 24 hours or 48 hours in seven days. [[1]] [[2]] The 48-hour limit in seven days may be averaged over a period of eight weeks, however, so that working hours do not exceed 60 hours in a single week if agreed in writing: (a) between the employer and the employees’ trustees in the activities linked to a collective bargaining agreement or (b) between the employer and the employee in activities where a long distance between the place of work and the place of residence of the worker or the distance between the places of work makes another organisation of working time necessary.»;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2928	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 8, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 10 to 6 fourth to tenth paragraphs are replaced by the following: The employer may charge overtime work up to 200 hours within a period of one year. [[4]] [[5]] The employer and the employee may enter into a written contract of overtime of up to 400 hours within a period of one year. [[6]] The total working time must not exceed 13 hours in 24 hours or 48 hours in seven days. The 48-hour limit in seven days can be averaged over a period of eight weeks. [[7]] The employer and the employees’ trustees in the activities bound by collective bargaining agreements may agree in writing a derogation from the 13-hour limit within 24 hours and extend the period for the average calculation of the total working time to 52 weeks. In this case, the worker shall be guaranteed equivalent compensatory rest periods or, where this is not possible, other appropriate protection. [[8]] The employee has the right to be exempted from work beyond the agreed working hours when requested by him for health or important social reasons. The employer also has an obligation to exempt the employee who so requests when the work can be postponed or carried out by others without damage. [[9]] For overtime work, a supplement shall be paid to the wage or salary paid by the employee for similar work during the normal working hours. [[10]] The supplement shall be at least 40 per cent. The employer and the employee may agree in writing that overtime and overtime allowances shall be taken out in full or in part in the form of unemployment at an agreed time.» In addition, there is a proposal replacing the eighth paragraph of the vote. That is proposal No. 34, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘10-6 eighth paragraphs are replaced by the following: the total working time shall not exceed 13 hours in 24 hours or 48 hours in seven days. [[8]] The 48-hour limit in seven days may be averaged over a period of eight weeks.» Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 34 and the proposal from the Right, the Party of Advancement, and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e2999	There are two different proposals here, proposal No. 8, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 27, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3043	It is then put to the vote on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3056	I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3063	The votes shall then be 60 votes against and 12 votes in favour. This does not mean that the proposal of the Progress Party has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3113	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 18 from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Articles 10 to 11, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: 2200 o'clock and 2200 o'clock 0600 is night work. [[1]] The employer and the employees’ trustees in the activities bound by a collective bargaining agreement may provide in writing for another period of at least eight hours, covering the period between 1 p.m. 10 a.m. and 10 p.m. 0600. As night work, work is not counted on two shifts between hours. 0600 o'clock and 0600 o'clock. 0000.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3501	Here, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3536	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 13-4, second paragraph, the prohibition in the first subparagraph shall not apply where such information is justified by the exemption from the prohibition of discrimination in Section 13-3, first paragraph. [[2]] In the event that such information will be required, this must be stated in the vacancy notice.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3788	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 9, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, and the Christian Party: ‘Sections 14 to 9 are replaced by the following: Employees shall be employed permanently, unless they are: [[1]] (a) work instead of another or other Ministry may, by way of regulation, specify the types of temporary employment for practical and educational purposes and the types of labour market measures covered by point (e) of the first subparagraph. [[2]] [[3]] National employee organisation may conclude a collective agreement with an employer or an employer association on access to temporary employment. If the collective bargaining agreement is binding on a majority of employees within a specified working group in the establishment, the employer may, under the same conditions, enter into a temporary contract with other employees who are required to carry out similar work. [[4]] Employees who have been employed for more than one year are entitled to written notice of the date of resignation not later than one month before the date of retirement. This does not apply, however, to participants in labour market measures covered by point (e) of the first subparagraph. The alert shall be deemed to have been issued when the worker has been identified. In the event of failure to comply with the deadline, the employer may not require the worker to leave within one month of the notification. [[5]] A temporary contract of employment shall cease at the end of the agreed period or at the end of the specific work, unless otherwise agreed in writing or provided for in a collective bargaining agreement. For employees who have been in continuous temporary employment for more than four years, the rules on termination of employment apply. This does not apply, however, to workers temporarily employed under points (c), (e) and (f) of the first subparagraph. The rules on dismissal also apply if the worker has been temporarily employed in the establishment under point (g) for more than 12 months.» And that's proposal No. 28, from the Party of Advancement: ‘Article 14-9, first paragraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: (b) that the worker is required only for a limited period of time or for the performance of a specific task.» [[seasonal work]] First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Party of Advancement, then alternatively between the vote and the proposal from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e3893	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 9, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 14-12, third paragraph, in the case of rents subsequent to this paragraph, the rules of the fifth paragraph of Sections 14-9, second, third and fourth subparagraphs shall apply mutatis mutandis.’; [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e4163	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 10, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 15 to 7, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: a notice of termination by the employer or of the intention to outsource the operation of the business by the use of independent contractors shall not be factual unless it is necessary for the continuing operation of the business.» [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e4240	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 11, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 15 to 11 are replaced by the following: In case of dispute over the lawful termination of a job in accordance with the rules of Sections 15 to 7, the employee may continue in the post as long as negotiations continue under Sections 17 to 3. [[1]] If proceedings are instituted within the time limits imposed by § 17-4, the employee may continue in the post. [[2]] However, at the request of the employer, the court may provide for the employee to resign from the proceedings if the court considers it unreasonable that the employment is maintained during the proceedings. The Court of First Instance shall at the same time fix the time limit for the employee to resign. [[3]] The right to continue in the post shall not apply to: (a) in the event of a dispute over dismissal, dismissal during the probationary period, for hired workers or temporary staff members, (b) in appeal proceedings if the judgment establishes that the termination is valid. If the judgment finds that the termination is valid, the court shall, at the same time, fix the time limit for the employee to resign. However, at the request of the employee, the court may provide that the employment relationship shall continue until the case is decided by law. [[4]] The right to continue in the job does not apply when the job is lost as a result of the closure of the job. [[5]] The right to continue in the post shall not apply to participants in labour market measures, whether or not in cooperation with Aetat, who are terminated because they are provided with ordinary work, transferred to other measures or terminated. [[6]] The court may provide that an employee who is unjustly excluded from work after the expiry of the period of notice or the period of the contract of employment is entitled to re-enter the post if the employee so requests within four weeks of the exclusion.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e4373	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 19 from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 16-2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: A new employer is bound by a collective agreement of which the former employer was bound. [[2]] This does not apply if, within three weeks of the date of transfer, the new employer declares in writing to the trade union that a new employer does not wish to be bound. However, the employees transferred are entitled to retain the individual working conditions resulting from a collective bargaining agreement on which the former employer was bound. This applies until this collective bargaining agreement expires or until a new collective bargaining agreement is concluded which is binding on the new employer and the transferred workers.» The Progress Party has announced their support for the proposal of the Right and Christian People’s Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e4415	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 20, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 16 to 3 first and second paragraphs are replaced by the following: [[1]] In the case of a former employer, the employment relationship will cease at the time of the transfer, but at the earliest when the employee's period of notice would end. [[2]] Employees who oppose the transfer of their employment to a new employer must inform the previous employer in writing of this within the time limit set by them. The time limit may not be less than 14 days after information has been provided in accordance with § 16-6.» Here, too, the Progress Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e4534	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 21, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 17-2, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Disputes referred to in Sections 10 to 13 and 12 to 14 may be brought before a dispute settlement panel for a decision.’; [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5266	Then we would be ready to vote over the title of the law and the law in its entirety. Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5280	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5292	According to the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, B is to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5399	Here the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5568	The sixth paragraph of Section 4-13 of the statement is now the fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5579	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5589	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. The regulatory time for the evening meeting is now over. The President will propose that the meeting continue until we have finished voting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5979	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5989	The bill will be sent to Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e5997	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 5-11, from André Kuckestad on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e6228	The President will first vote on the proposal No. 5-11, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e6322	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e6431	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 20-2 of the Arbitration Act shall be replaced by the following: The counterparty may be wholly or partly relieved of its liability if good reasons justify it. Particular attention is paid to: (a) whether there was good reason to have the case tried because it was dubious or was first found to be demonstrably clear after the case; (b) whether the successful party can be prevented from bringing the case or has refused a reasonable settlement offer; or (c) whether the case is of well-being importance and the relationship between the parties warrants such exemption.» The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e11617	The President now assumes that once the proposals have been dropped, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left will subsidiaryly support the vote. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e11628	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e11638	The bill will be sent to Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e11653	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e11661	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 6 and 7, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e11989	The President will first vote on the motions for resolutions. One, two, three, five from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12048	It is now voted over the paragraphs that the Socialist Left Party has announced that they will oppose. The President shall refer to the paragraphs concerned: § 216a, third paragraph§ 216b, second paragraph§ 216c The Progress Party has announced that they will support the suspension now that their proposals have been dropped.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12072	It is then votered over § 216 m. Here both the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12086	It is then added to the other paragraphs under I and above II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12096	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12107	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12115	In the course of the debate, Mr Thorkildsen has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12355	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 66 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12371	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12386	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12436	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12446	The Law Decision will be late Lamentations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12454	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Eirin Fallet on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 4-6, by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 7, by May Hansen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 8, by Eli Sollied Överaas, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 9, from Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and the Center Party Proposals Nos. 1-8 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 9 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12576	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they are moving towards the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12635	Here is a correction: Under the first sentence of § 4-4, fifth paragraph, last line, «housing measures» shall be replaced by «centre».
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12684	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12698	SV was to vote against § 4-20 new fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12705	The suspension of Section 4-2, third paragraph, and Section 6-4, second paragraph, has already been approved by 58 votes to 12. But then we take § 4-20 new fourth term up to voting again. The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12770	Here the Central Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12860	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12891	There is a proposal here, No. 9, from the Workers' Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and the Center Party. This proposal was submitted after 1 p.m. 09.00, which is the provision of the Rules of Procedure for the submission of such proposals. However, the President will propose voting on the proposal – and see it as approved. The proposal comes as a replacement for the cancellation proposal under § 9-10a.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12937	I pressed the wrong button, I was going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12944	Thus the proposal of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party was supported by 59 votes to 12 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e12962	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e13027	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e13037	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e13052	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06-lower-2.ana.ud466e13063	There is no record.
