ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e38	The store starts the day with a happy message. From His Majesty King Harald, the President of the Stortinge today received the following message: «It is with great joy I announce that DD.KK.HH. The Crown Prince and The Crown Princess have a son on 3 December 2005 at 2.30 p.m. 10:45. The child’s title and name is Prince Sverre Magnus.’ This communication shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Jan Petersen on leave from 5 December to 7 December to attend a seminar at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington from the representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on leave on days 6 and 7 December to attend the 51st session of the Western European Union Assembly, second part, in Paris from the representatives of Børge Brende, Asmund Kristoffersen, Gunnar Kvassheim and Heidi Sørensen on leave from 6 December to 9 December, all to attend the 11th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Climate Convention and the first meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocols, in Montreal Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Akershus County, Cathrin Bretzeg, there is an application to be exempted from meeting at Stortinget under the representative Jan Petersen's leave due to illness. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For Akershus County: Sylvi GrahamFor Hedmark County: Arnfinn NergårdFor Møre and Rome Day counties: Else-May BottenFor Oslo: Akhtar ChaudryFor Rogaland County: Helge Solum LarsenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Linda Cathrine Hofstad2. Sylvi Graham is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e120	Sylvi Graham is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e126	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e136	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e161	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and that the other speakers be given a speaking time of 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e168	After the fall, Norway has a new government. Norway now has a multiple government for the first time in 20 years. As a small country in need of a clear relationship with the countries around us and the world, it has been a goal with the highest possible agreement in foreign policy. And even though we now have a new government in Norway, the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are fixed. Strong integration of UN and international law, NATO membership and the EEA Agreement as a framework for cooperation with the EU are important elements of the Government's foreign policy. In the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is a very high degree of agreement. With the exception of the Progress Party, there is a deal on the frame, and when it applies to the areas within the frame where there are slightly different permissions and priorities, it seems that a large number of common notes are common. This is evidence of continued good cooperation on foreign and aid policy in Norway. I see that in addition to the parties that make up the government constellation today, it is also possible for this cooperation to continue in the future, which I personally appreciate. In the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the basis of the Government, the Government says that one will give priority to the north, a more offensive European policy, that one will strengthen Norway’s efforts as a peace nation and be involved in and further develop the UN and international law. These priorities are also the main basis for the changes made in the priorities of the new government in connection with the next year’s budget. Particular emphasis has been placed on strengthening the UN's ability to fulfil the tasks of the world community to fill the UN. One wants to give the United Nations the opportunity to be the most important international actor. The majority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ budget of DKK 21.5 billion is for development aid. The struggle for a fairer and more resilient development has been and is important to Norway. Reproduce the target to reach 1 pst. of gross national income is not reached in the year either, growth in crowns and ears is much greater than growth from 0.95 to 0.96 pst. the GNI was to be granted. One has this year a framework of assistance that increases by DKK 1.8 billion. This is an important signal that Norway takes its international commitments seriously, but it is primarily new money that is very welcome and that comes well with it. That one also doesn't reach the goal of 1 pst. by GNI, comes in my view primarily from very high oil prices. The high priority development aid has and has had in Norway is a clear expression of the desire for Norway to join in and fight against international poverty. One suggests that Norway has the ability to participate and influence, and one also suggests that Norway has a moral duty to contribute so that more people can get a better life. It is important to make it clear that by contributing to a positive development for the large majority of the world's population, we in our part of the world will also have a safer everyday life, and not least I believe that it will increase the quality of life for many if we know that fewer live in distress and poverty. The new government has chosen to use some of the new funds at its disposal to strengthen the UN. This is an important signal that the new government wants to focus more strongly on the UN as an organisation that can both act as peace-building, which can be norm-setting, and which can also be an important venue for conflict resolution and as a development coordinator. And when it comes to dealing with major humanitarian disasters, the UN is the international body that should be involved. If the UN has the ability to do its job, it has to have the economy at its disposal. Financing the UN system has been a problem for a long time. The fact that the UN has not had funds at its disposal when acute situations have arisen has also been a major problem. One has to go out first to get the funds, before one has been able to take the necessary steps to remedy the situation in the fields. This has created insecurity, and it has helped postpone the relief work. The fact that various funds are now being created to improve the preparedness of the United Nations, thereby giving the United Nations a better space for action, is very positive. And I'm happy with the priorities that the government is doing to help fill up these funds. Norway has been an active player for a long time to support the ambitions of its Millennium Goals. By focusing efforts on achieving these goals, a lot of money will automatically go to Africa, simply because there are problems associated with these goals that are greater, and that's where the greater part of the effort has to be inserted. The new government has chosen to channel part of the support to achieve these objectives through the United Nations system. Some have tried to represent this as reducing the level of activity associated with the assistance needed in Africa. This is not the case. The funds that a person now wants to make available to the United Nations will mainly be used for assistance in these areas as well. It is also the case that all countries in Africa that have funds transferred from Norway will have at least the same level next year as this year. The Bondevik II government had the advantage that it managed to bring Right into the heat with a view to agreeing to Norwegian aid policy. In the period before the Bondevik II government joined forces, the rights of aid were much lower than what they had afterwards. This year, fortunately, they are involved in and continue funding in this area, but it will be exciting to see if this is a policy that will last for the four-year period – I hope so. As I've said, what's going on for the setting is that it's a big deal. There is one party that still stands out, and it is the Progress Party, which in very many areas cuts the aid as much as up to 80 pst., which of course would have very unfortunate consequences for those who had the framework if this had become Norwegian policy. In a way, this is not new, but it's a little disappointing, because after we deal with the budget last year, there's a new signal coming from the Progress Party. Siv Jensen, the second leader of the Progress Party, was visiting Africa under the direction of Norwegian People's Aid, and VG was on the verge. The reality she saw in Africa led to a new signal from the Progress Party, which announced that the Progress Party too would now be involved and contribute when it comes to aid, in a completely different way from what they had done before. Unfortunately, one must conclude that Siv Jensen did not get a breakthrough in his own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e192	Our development policy should I comment in more detail in my post later. The Head of the Foreign Affairs Committee began by talking about the goal of Norwegian foreign policy as being as consistent as possible and that the main lines are fixed. It's hard to disagree with that. Nevertheless, we have recently seen trends that the greatest disagreements in Norwegian foreign policy, if we ignore development policy, have been between the government parties. Is there a satisfactory situation? Is it that the kind of open debate we have now seen about the boycott of Israel or the lack of support for Americans in Afghanistan is going to continue, and that we are thus about to get a government that sends unclear signals about what is just the main lines of Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e199	I think it is difficult in a democracy to demand that there should be no political debate attached to all policy areas. It is also important that one discusses issues related to foreign policy, and it is of course also so that when one has a multi-party government, parts of this debate will have to be conducted in the various party organisations. What is important, however, is that this is clarified in the Government, and when it concerns the government's signal, there is no basis for saying that they haven't been ready since Day 1. The government statement clearly states that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are established, and there is no signal from any of the members of the Government or from the government that the situation should be different. That there are individual members in some parties who have different views, I don't think there is any problem in the big context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e204	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has little reason to worry about the Right’s view on the level of assistance. The level of assistance at present is entirely in line with the long-term policy of the Right Party, and since I was the case rapporteur for the aid message in ours, I would like to remind him that we have an opinion in the vote on it together with several of the other parties on a similar commitment with regard to the level of the next four-year period. I see that the representative Akselsen is busy explaining why you're going to give more money to the United Nations, less money to Africa, and it might look like a weakening of Africa's aid. I must remind you that in the suspension of the aid message, a unanimous committee would set indicative targets for how much Norwegian assistance will go to poor countries. Why has the Workers' Party failed this now? Is it to get away from spending so much money on Africa, because there are so many other, tempting purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e211	I am very pleased that Right now is involved in what is the broad policy in Norway in connection with assistance. At least there's a new orientation that's been happening in the last four years. There will be no less money for Africa with the new government's arrangement. It's the way that part of the money that the Bondevik II government had set aside for individual countries in Africa is going to go through the United Nations system today. In any case, the promises will be higher for 2006 than in 2005. I think it is important that we have clear objectives and priorities in the aid policy, but in my view they must be linked to humanitarian issues, physical conditions on the ground. That's why it's hard for me to say today where the greatest needs will be in five years. But as long as we say that it's UN's Millennium Goals that are the headlines, it's also going to be what determines where these Norwegian money will be channelled, and as it stands for next year, it means Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e218	First, I would like to pay tribute to the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee for a main post that clearly marked the fact that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are going on and on, and the foundation for it. It is important for a small country, and it has the support of the Christian People's Party. But we'll come back to things that indicate that one doesn't always manage to do this well enough between the three parties. My question now is a further follow-up of the representative of Vallersnes' question. I assume that the representatives of the Workers' Party, as in the development message setting, who draw up a perspective for the years ahead and for the next growing period, are actually involved in entering the plural setting there, setting up what is the Workers' Party's policy ahead. It was quite clear that one would have measured figures in relation to Africa. Were they so short-lived on date stamping, or could they actually be sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e225	I feel very much here that one is trying to create a contradiction that, in my view, is not there. What is quite clear is that we want an offensive policy from Norway in relation to providing assistance to the poor part of the world. It is also the case that we have said that when it comes to the arrangements for these money, we should first of all rely on the UN's thousand-year objectives, which are reasonablely concrete. Then it's important that we use the money that way. So it's the world's needs that need to be more important than the one today deciding which geographic area to prioritise in five years, if the development in the meantime is different from what one expects today. So the most important thing in my view is that enough money is put at the disposal. I understand that there's a big deal about who's going to get that help, and then I think that the geographical questions associated with it will solve itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e232	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e236	This framework area, which mainly contains the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, is characterised by few surprises and is largely a continuation of current policies. The fact that aid is also the winner of the budget this year is no surprise. I don't think it's very risky to predict that this will also be the case next year – as it has been for the last four years. Now it's tempting to debate other aspects of the government's foreign policy than just the budget, but it's doing the government parties very well on my own, so I'm going to focus on matters related to the budget. The Progress Party's alternative budget proposal is so far from the agreed framework that we do not find it appropriate to present a separate proposal for voting in the framework today. And we will vote against both the proposal from the government parties and the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In our option, we focus on a realistic aid policy, focusing on developments in the beneficiary countries. We build our policies on what is effective and what is not effective. This was dealt with by the Storting very carefully in the context of the development announcement earlier this year. We presented there a comprehensive development policy and justification for our views. We record that our view of assistance as an instrument is increasingly being supported in various research reports and among people who have experience in working with assistance. Now we admit, and we've done that from this pulpit before, that everything is not black and white, and that there's reason both for us and for others to constantly evaluate both positions and policies. However, in the view of this representative, the current main line of Norwegian aid policy that is better and less poor is too simple. What is the long-term impact of assistance? Too many beneficiary countries — not to say as well as all — are unfortunately negative or undetectable. It worries us, and it should, as we see it, worry a lot more. We believe that this is worrying, but we do not see that it changes the overall picture of aid policy. At the macro level, today's aid policy does not work. Failure to provide assistance is a historical phenomenon, one must believe one. Had it even been so well. The Progress Party criticised the current policy in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s – the policy that many today point to and say: yes, it was not good enough. But we were then, as now, rejected, and it was explained that we did not have a heart layer or knowledge of the subject. This time, as last year, we have spent NOK 1 billion in our foreign budget on health-related measures, among others. through global funds, such as: GAVI. So it does not appear in the setting that is currently being treated. We're also going to bet on indebtedness. We believe it is one of the best tools we have in addition to improving trading conditions. And perhaps the most important debate for developing countries will take place in Hong Kong next week. Let's hope that both the Norwegian government and the governments of other kingdoms put the less privileged part of the world first. So to the UN, we record that not only is the UN going to have more money, but they are going to be made an increasingly important piece of Norwegian foreign policy. The Progress Party shares the view that the UN is important and that in certain areas the UN must and can play an important role. But we will warn against allowing the UN to govern parts of Norwegian foreign policy. Firstly, the UN has not always proved to be the good representative of vulnerable groups, of the oppressed or the poor. Secondly, the Progress Party believes that money provided through the UN does not necessarily produce better results than money provided, for example. through various private organisations or foundations. The lack of effectiveness of the UN system has also been relatively well documented, and the need for reform is largely agreed on. Not getting far enough in that work should arouse concern. We think we might do things here in a slightly reverse order, when we signal more money without first demanding results from the reform work. So we're afraid of the effect of the means we put in, not going to be as good as it could have been. In the wake of the tsunami disaster, the call was for aid organisations to coordinate and coordinate assistance. The little thing I know about this is that the organizations did it very much. But some UN organisations were not as good. By size or otherwise they felt that they could and should have the right to drive, and thus duplicated the help of others. We believe there is a significant reason to demand an evaluation and results of the projects that the United Nations has recently conducted, and then base our help and support to the United Nations on what is as effective as possible. In the case of various emergency aid disasters, we should not set figures in advance for that 50 pst. or 70 pst. we must and must go through the UN, but we should always find the most effective channels of assistance, whether it is through Norwegian-led NGOs, international organisations, the United Nations system or other bodies to provide assistance. The greatest possible amount of assistance must be provided. The Progress Party will increase the allocation of emergency aid. Norway became heavily involved in the tsunami disaster, and later today we are dealing with further aid to the victims of the Pakistan earthquake. The Progress Party has supported this all the way, but nevertheless believes that the budget line for emergency aid should be greater. It had not taken care of the need to grant additional appropriations, as we do today for the earthquake victims, but a larger item might have given the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a greater flexibility to meet needs faster. The relationship with Russia is important. We have long believed that parts of Russia should be entitled to Norwegian aid, but we have not. Now the government is increasing cap. Ninety-seven million. kr in relation to the proposals of the Bondevik II Government, and that is good. But here it is a bit ahead, and therefore it is gratifying that an overall committee points to the need for a greater commitment here in the years to come. A strategic partnership with Russia is important, and developments in North-West Russia in particular require Norway to take responsibility for it. The problems are many. Here it is important to take advantage of the commitment that has been built up in recent years through people to people-to-people cooperation, and to stimulate further development of this. Many Norwegian organisations are also doing a fantastic job in Russia, and they should be supported as far as possible by projects meeting the criteria laid down. Finally, I would ask the President to arrange the vote so that we can vote against both proposals for framework arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e266	That's what the president's going to do. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e271	Morten Høglund says that they will be involved in the assistance that is effective, and go against the one that is not effective. I'd say it's for most people here in the hall. But what is quite clear is that with the Progress Party's budget, we would have dramatic effects both on questions of vaccination and education and on questions of clean water and enough food. If we had implemented this budget to the Progress Party, much of the world's population today receiving emergency aid would not receive it. So this is the Progress Party of the good old brand. But as I mentioned in my post, it has our second signal from the Progress Party. When Siv Jensen was in Africa and saw this closely, she was clearly affected by the situation. She then said that the Progress Party should consider coming back and being a more active actor in relation to assistance. Is it so that Siv Jensen was only affected by the situation there and then, or has she suffered internal defeat in the Progress Party, since we now see only the old Progress Party and these signals have disappeared in the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e282	Yes, of course, we cut so significantly that it will go beyond certain projects. Now I mentioned that we set of NOK 1 billion for health-related measures, among other things. vaccination. Acute help, emergency help, we have basically never put ourselves on the sideline of, rather the opposite. We have, as I also referred to, thoroughly explained our views on aid and development through the work on the Development Communication. I do not recognize that description of Siv Jensen's visit to Uganda. Here the Progress Party has had a policy for many years, it has been well presented in Stortinget, and that is what I am dealing with in this context as a foreign policy spokesman.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e289	As a small country, Norway is dependent on international cooperation. Poverty-oriented assistance, peace building and the environment are among the most important areas on the international agenda. These fields are about two things: values and Norwegian interests. On the other hand, the Progress Party proposes a strong weakening of Norway’s assistance to the world’s poor, to peace-building and to international environmental cooperation, for example. Kyoto Protocols. The Progress Party is completely isolated in the Stortinget in this objective, and in the next round the Progress Party's policy will help to isolate Norway in the world. Is this dramatic deterioration in Norway's international commitment a finding of a lack of values, or does the Progress Party seriously believe that international cooperation in the areas of aid, peace building and the environment does not serve Norway's interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e298	Of course, much cooperation serves Norway’s interests. If all cooperation does so, and if all measures and appropriations from Norway are unilaterally involved and serve the interests of Norway, we are uncertain about. We point to some weaknesses in aid policy, and the results here also speak very much for themselves. For example, 50–60 years of aid policy from Norway and from the world have not produced such results. Africa that you didn't just hope for, but that you should have demanded. But, of course, we need to take an active part in the international arena: working together, influencing and supporting positive developments. But what is the result of development policy has unfortunately not been positive, and that is what we are pointing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e303	The progress party will be involved in supporting emergency aid, and that's good. But then there's something to be led was, and there knows a Progress Party. They're not willing to be led by war, so prevent disasters from happening. There is no doubt that environmental effort is an important way of being led was. The UN notes that for years to come, there will be many climate refugees due to climate damage or climate change and environmental damage. Is it not a paradox that the Progress Party does not recognise that global warming must be done drastically, but rather that it is not man - made? What does the Progress Party think about that? Like SV, the Progress Party is committed to having non-governmental organisations as an important part of democracy. But then it's like the cuts that the Advance Party comes with in the case of embassies, etc., will go beyond the cooperation of non-governmental organisations with embassies and professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e312	With regard to the cut in the appropriations for the embassies, I did not understand. I do feel that we have supported ourselves under the framework of our foreign stations. But we'll see about that. Climate change is a serious situation, and we do not dispute that things are happening with climate. It's true that we have a discussion related to the anthropogenic climate. Now there is an intense debate also taking place internationally, not least on the post-Kyoto world, and we see countries such as the United States. The United Kingdom is about to see if they should adjust their course. When you talk about a drastic change of policy to meet this, it's, as we see it, well documented that it's not necessarily the best way to use resources. If we are to help those affected, other policy areas may need to be adjusted. But it's clear that this is a long debate to engage in a line change, so we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e321	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e324	The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy and development aid are continued by the new government. It is very satisfactory because predictability is important, but also because it is crucial for credibility that foreign policy has broad support. More new challenges have arisen in recent years. It'll be reinforced in the time we go into. On 11 September 2001, the focus on counter-terrorism was a crossroads. Apart from its influence in many other fields of action, it also confronts us with difficult new balances between the protection of civil society against terrorism and sufficient respect for legal certainty and the transparency of democratic society. This balance sheet will be challenged and will require agreed solutions both at home and in the international family, without going along with our own values. The focus of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on this team is commendable – among others. in his chronicle in the newspaper two days ago. We would like to see democratic regimes emerging in new countries. Splendid processes take place in countries such as Ukraine and Lebanon. In this context, too, we can face new challenges. In other cultural circles, we are likely to experience that one through legitimate democratic processes chooses political solutions and leadership that are far from what the West would want. It could be an exercise in the development of tolerance for the 'old' democracies, which we'll probably get the best out of if we realize that we have something to contribute, as well as there might be something to learn. It is also likely that democracy and good governance can find different designs in different parts of the world. UNDP published its ‘Arab Human Development Report’ in 2003, which included: shows that more than 60 pst. by those in question in Arab countries would prefer a democratic form of government. But it's not sure they mean the same thing to what we do. Democracy and good governance will have a local coloration of history, culture, traditions and, in part, religion. In particular, good governance is used diligently in development policy, but perhaps a little inexpressive and uncertain about its content. Regardless of local adjustments, there will have to be a minimum common multiple that is at the heart of the good governance. Here's a job to do. For my part, I believe that the citizens of most countries will give priority to the rule of law principles with legal certainty for individuals, as well as to a government that is representative, uncorrupted and accountable to those who chose them. European democracies have evolved over the centuries. New democracies require the long development of both the country's government and civil society. For us, it must be important that development is in the right direction, that it is progressing satisfactorily and that it is based on the core elements it has defined. On such a basis, we can then go the way from traditional assistance to both debt and budgetary support. Another important choice is isolation as opposed to integration and commitment to cooperation in the international community. Here we are concerned about the SV's influence in the Government, with its no towards the EU, its reluctance to NATO and hostility to our greatest ally, the United States. In a speech I was given at the Norwegian delegation in New York on 31 October this year, the Minister for Foreign Affairs highlighted three important considerations for Norwegian foreign policy: Firstly, multilateral commitments are important, not least for small countries. Secondly, we must be friends with our friends and maintain alliances. Thirdly, when the first two points work, we can participate internationally and contribute to making a difference in the world society, whether it be conflict resolution, peace or poverty. We wish the Foreign Minister every success in doing this, not least in the government's internal battle to preserve its friends. International law and good allies will also make the big difference when we are challenged in our own neighbourhoods. On the right, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is satisfied with the full implementation of the Nordgebiet dialogues, launched by the Bondevik Government in St.meld. No 30 for 2004–2005 in spring. The working party and the Right have a parallel view of the possibilities and solutions in the north. Important Norwegian interests are at stake, but we expect the Government to ensure good anchoring in Stortinget, and to use the time and patience required. If the issues are high on our agenda, it is not at all certain that to the same extent is the case on the Russian side. Very brief on the WTO: After the foreign minister's assurance of an open process, it was with a certain wonder about the question-time last Wednesday and the Council of State's answer to my question about the GATS that we found that we had to ask for an additional explanation, so that the Storting could also be informed about the country's negotiating positions. Now we come back to the matter at the presentation on Friday. Development aid is the largest item in the budget. Right-hander expects the unified main lines from St.meld. No 35 for 2003–04. However, we note that the government parties are already leaving the system of norms, which I have already commented on in reply. The consequence is a weakening of Africa’s priority at a time and for a year when there is a broad consensus at home and out there that Africa is about to be brought forward. When are we going to take the African challenges seriously and stick to the celebrations? The majority also shift funds from the World Bank to the UN. The UN is highly prioritised by everyone, but the redistribution raises two questions: Firstly, due in particular to the structural adjustment programmes and conditionality, the World Bank has been rightly criticised for several years. Norway, together with other countries, has been working to change the World Bank’s policy, and it has produced results. In a talk about the World Bank published on the U.D.'s website, Secretary of State Stenhammer shows that the bank now recognises that privatisation should not be a general requirement and that in its own World Development Report 2006, the bank finds that privatisation is a policy that needs to be adapted to local circumstances. It also states that if, according to their own development strategies and the reform agenda, countries themselves wish to privatize, it is difficult to oppose it. Furthermore, privatisation and liberalisation can be beneficial in certain cases where the public sector is corrupt or totally inefficient. Why is the Government so sceptical to the bank when it itself reconsiders the usefulness of privatisation? And is it not little tactical to step down the activity through the bank just when one has gained influence on the operation and policy? Secondly, when many large amounts are transferred from the bank to the UN, we must assume that the government has knowledge that the funds will then make better use there. We haven't seen that documented anywhere. On the contrary, we know that the World Bank has documented very good results, not least in the field of education, which is a Norwegian main field of activity. The World Bank is also the multilateral organisation that has developed, in particular, audit, target and evaluation systems, which are particularly important for us to demand, with the significant resources we have. There is therefore reason to ask whether the re-disposal of the Government is more motivated by party politics than by rational reasons. The so-called PRSPs, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, form the basis for action in both aid and loans and debt. The system has been criticised, but with the second and third generations of PRSP, we gradually see that the purpose is achieved: countries are gaining an increasing ownership of their own process. This is essential for breaking out of the tradition of centuries, where the countries of the north knew best on their behalf, and which we still find in a kind of post-colonial paternalism. Therefore, it is important to give NEPAD and African Peer Review Mechanisms under the direction of African Union a chance. Own-development programme ownership is the basis for taking care of itself. It gives enhanced identity and self-respect, and therefore increases the ability to take further care of itself. In other words, evolution – and that’s exactly what it’s for. Finally, quite briefly on the Svalbard budget: strong responses have been made to the proposal to increase the tax rate on income from 8 p.m. to 12 pst. from 2006. The right fully understands the need for a better process and indicates that a working group has been set up to look into the overall tax system of Svalbard. We assume that this sample establishes a good dialogue with the local government of Svalbard. I would also like to address the minority proposals from the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right in both the Svalbard budget and the 2006 budget for the framework area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e370	The representative Finn Martin Vallersnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e376	On the right, I would like to present myself as the great European party and a guarantor of a living Europe debate – although I do not think it was very visible when the Right sat with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the budget, they proposed a dramatic cut, not in a large budgetary context, but a dramatic cut, for information on European cooperation. It is a strange contribution to keeping a Europe-debate alive. I am pleased that the Stoltenberg government is correcting the cut, but I would like to have a reason for that cut by the representative Vallersnes. I think it's a dramatic cut – almost a halve of support for information on European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e383	With regard to the budget amounts themselves, they are small, as was said. They've gone up and down a little bit in recent years. I don't think it's dramatic in any way. But what I think is dramatic is that we are weakening our relationship with the European Union and our ability to influence it further in our out-of-state state by doubting our position on the European cooperation of the Government. With some of the positions expressed by some of the government parties, there must certainly be a basis for doubt in Brussels as to where they have Norway as a partner, and we look forward to seeing this further development. This may be worrying about our ability to care for Norway’s interests in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e390	From the opposition there is today both criticism of the aid and actually doubted whether the aid works, and that is all the good reasons for it. We know that he doesn't seem like he was supposed to be when he was started 50 years ago. Now the Right has come into place when it applies to volume. There is no progress party. Nevertheless, one from the Progress Party's side is strongly critical of the content of the assistance, and I think it is good. If you believe it's to make him better, there's nothing better than that. The new mantra that is coming, simply trade, is as strong as the optimism that we had at the time the aid started. Then it's about doing that we don't go in the same trap and get too much faith in commerce, that it's going to clean up everything. So my question to the Right goes in relation to whether Right approves the principle that it is necessary for individual countries to secure themselves, by protectionism, and that trade can never be entirely free.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e399	There is no doubt that trade is as important as assistance, i.e. ‘aid and trade’, and there are other components to it as well. A full chapter that could be discussed is also self-disposal of a country's natural resources, and Europe still has a part to discuss with some of these countries. I think that the consideration of the Right entrance into the heat, to interpret it like that, is a little taken on. The right hand line in the aid policy has been long-term, and we're going on. But what I think we have been involved in and introduced to the debate in the last few years is a more realistic approach to the value of more concrete target descriptions for what to achieve, and the development of tools, tools for evaluation and achievement of results. And just in that area, I can come back to one of my points from the post, namely that there we might think that the World Bank is the one that's reached the longest, and basically beyond the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e406	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e409	When Bishop Desmond Tutu became acquainted with some of the contents of the Soria Moria statement, he said the following: Fantastic that such things can still happen. With a red-green majority and a red-green government, Norway's vote for strengthening the UN, for conflict resolution rather than bombs, for strengthening human rights and for fighting poverty in the world will become clearer. The Soria Moria Declaration states that participation in international operations should be enshrined in the UN Charter and have a clear UN mandate, and that Norway's efforts should be reversed in favour of greater participation in UN operations, in other words: more Norwegian military personnel with blue UN helmets. This clear commitment will mean something for the development of international rules and for the strengthening of the UN as the only international body that can legitimize the use of power when power is needed. It is in Norwegian interest and in the interests of the world that we have a United Nations-led world order and not a situation in which nations can cope on their own. It is in our interests and in the interests of the world that the fight for a safer world and against terrorism takes place within the framework of human rights. More than ever, alternatives to military action, alternative ways of promoting, coordinating and ensuring the quality of peace building and conflict prevention are needed. More than ever, the forces that fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and for disarmament are needed. I will give it the praise of the previous government and the then Foreign Minister that Norway's commitment in this area has been clear. Norway has been and must be a driver of the widest possible and most binding non-proliferation and disarmament work. The proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security. It is therefore important that Norway continue cooperation in the 7 country group in order to move forward in the follow-up to the 2000 Conference of Supervisors, and even more importantly, when we know that neither the 2005 Conference of Supervisors nor the United Nations Summit in September of this autumn was able to agree on new measures to address the threat of proliferation of nuclear weapons. I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that believes that the Government must work for the NATO countries to take the lead in combating weapons of mass destruction. NATO needs to continuously assess its own weapons strategy in order to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in international policy. ‘A complete abolition of nuclear weapons is a goal that must be pursued’ says a unanimous committee. Norway has been and shall be a driver for the development of an international instrument to combat the illegal mediation of small arms. In fact, it's the handgun that kills and hurts most people around the world. Uncontrolled proliferation of small arms in countries with weak police and judiciary, high unemployment and high poverty are a major security threat and a threat to development. When Norway’s voice has been so clear in this area, it is a paradox that the Bondevik government removed support for the peace organisations here at home. I think it was quite outrageous. Norway's efforts as a peace nation depend entirely on our high level of competence at home in these areas, and on the fact that there is an open and informative debate. Norway has a rich diversity of peace organisations. I am therefore pleased that this budget will bring back 2 million. kr to these, and I have noted that the ‘old’ government parties are also satisfied with that. It was the cooperation between UNIFEM — the UN Women’s Development Fund — and the many voluntary organisations, and especially women’s organisations worldwide, which resulted in the adoption by the Security Council of the important Resolution 1325 five years ago. This resolution describes the violence that keeps women in war and in crisis situations, and how women's efforts must be taken into account in peace mediation and when nations are to be rebuilt. A UNIFEM report on women, war and peace is a shocking reading about, among other things. how women's bodies become war arenas through mass violence and the spread of HIV/AIDS, and how, in particular, girls lose the possibility of schooling in war and times of crisis. It is now important that Resolution 1325 be followed up. I am pleased that the Government has undertaken to draw up an action plan in this area. First step is 2 million. to UNIFEM in this budget. Clearly, the Millennium Goals can never be achieved if violations of women’s human rights do not end, and if women are not given the opportunity to play a role in conflict resolution around the peace negotiating tables in the transition from war and crisis to peace – in Sudan, in Haiti, in Kosovo, in Congo. UN funding for networking is now being given to women politicians in Haiti, in the hope that there will be more women in Parliament after the elections. Women must participate in all aspects of the decision-making process. The world's women carry poverty on their shoulders. 70 pst. of the world's poor are women. The greatest feminisation of poverty takes place in rural areas in the poorest countries. Therefore, all development work must be done with women's glasses on, not only for women who have not been given the right and the opportunity to live the life they want for themselves and their children, but because women are a resource for the development of a better world. So that's why it has to be on women. The 1995 United Nations Development Report clearly stated that the safest way to invest in economic and social development is to strengthen the economic and social position of women – allowing women to organise, participate and influence through networking. Women's reproductive health is closely linked to women's access to power and resources. Therefore, the new majority will be clear that strengthening women’s reproductive health and rights will be important from a development perspective and in the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS. In the additional proposal, the Government indicates that the environment should be a focus of development. According to the UN, we will have many more millions of climate refugees if nothing is done to address climate and environmental damage. Therefore, it is important to focus on the environment in the aid work. But I guess it's so important that the United Nations Climate Change Conference, which is meeting in Montreal, comes out with some results. The winner of the Sofie Prize, Sheila Watt-Cloutier, shall attend this conference. She has announced that she will require action to be taken to stop climate change damage in the interests of human rights. I am very pleased that our Environment Minister says that this is a solidarity fight that will receive Norway's support. The red-green government has already shown a willingness to increase transparency in the WTO negotiations. A fair WTO agreement will be essential if we are to be able to solve fundamental issues both globally and nationally. But first of all, the outcome of WTO negotiations will be crucial for the ability of large parts of the world’s population to have the same opportunity as rich countries to rise out of poverty and marginalisation. Not one country has the power to develop justice and democracy for the large populations without having the opportunity to protect its own interests and resources. World trade needs rules to deal with greedy market forces and to rely on the interests of ordinary people, the poorest and the environment. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that the new foreign minister understands the importance of the foreign cultural effort. It's important, not just because it's going to profile Norway out in the world, but also because it's important for the development of art and culture and for what's going to happen here at home. By getting a greater exchange, more of Norwegian art and culture out in the world and more of the world's art and culture back here, we can get to a development of Norwegian art and culture life, but then it's important that we also, for the next year, in the Ibsen year, are concerned with conveying modern art outwards, and that we gain greater cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e448	The Socialist Left Party, as it is known, is a party opposed to Norwegian EU membership, using arguments such as big bureaucracy and little national influence to substantiate its views. In the case of another organisation, the UN, later on, the party has the true opposite view. Despite an enormous bureaucracy, where much of the money disappears, and Member States have little influence, today we see that the Socialist Left increases our international involvement through the UN system, even in spite of repeated revelations of scandals and corruption. Will the representative Valle explain why such unbounded trust in the UN system is available in SV and now increases the Norwegian UN exposure at the expense of other purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e457	It is true that SV is a clear no to the EU party and has arguments that, to be confused, are similar to those of the French majority, namely a lack of democracy, a lack of transparency and a number of other arguments. So why support up on the UN? Can't you use the same arguments there? Firstly, the UN has some quite different objectives than that of the EU, and small countries depend on us having an international legal order. It is incredibly important that we have an international legal order and an international body that can legitimize the use of power when needed, so that the big countries cannot get along on their own. Then it is also true that we need to support the reform work in the UN. A number of proposals have been made on how to do this and there will be strong support from the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e466	It is a difficult line, because it is so much good to choose from in the common bag ‘life and learning and its consequences’. But I have attached myself to the following: How does SV think that a unilateral Norwegian boycott of Israel, which is not anchored in the UN, or somewhere else for that matter, will help the Minister of Foreign Affairs to strengthen the Norwegian peace exposure between Israel and the Palestinian authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e471	SV doesn't think a unilateral boycott of Israel is the answer. SV wants us to have a debate about it. In 2003, I met Zahira from Palestine. Zahira is today Minister of Women's Affairs of the Palestinian Maritime Administration. Zahira told me about the walls. She told me about Palestinian villages that are both confined and excluded, about children who are prevented from going to school, farmers who are not allowed to cultivate the land say, and that those who have work are not able to get to work because of the walls. I agree with Kåre Willoch, who said there will never be peace unless the Palestinians have a hope for a future. After many years of violations of international law and a lack of willingness to comply with UN resolutions, we believe that it is at least possible to discuss whether there should be greater pressure on Israel. And so we've raised the debate about boycott, which I see also several other people are discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e481	I understand that SV has done more than travel the debate. As far as I am concerned, the national meeting has recommended boycott, and I perceive that one will launch a campaign for it over the New Year. My follow-up question to the representative of Vallersnes' question is: Does SV think that Iran is a better democracy with more respect for human rights than Israel, since one in the debate on Iran is not, in fact, fully supportive of the idea of boycott, which the Progress Party wanted, but agreed on the line in which the Government had broad support that critical dialogue was the best way to achieve the goal? So does SV mean that Israel is a greater disaster than Iran, when we know what has been documented in relation to Iran's regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e486	No, we do not believe that Iran is anything better than Israel, until it is the violation of human rights and the concern that Iran can develop its own nuclear weapons, too much. That is why we also called for a number of measures in the inter-pelling debate that was held here. But there is a difference between human rights violations and occupation. I assume that the representative Lilletun also agrees that Israel has occupied Palestinian land, and that something must be done to bring it to an end, so that the Palestinians can have the hope that it will be possible to have a future. Then we can discuss different ways of doing it, and we have thus raised a debate – the party SV has raised a debate – but we are dealing with what the government is going to do. [[President clubs]] We can't go alone on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e491	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e494	In Norway, there have been long traditions with a broad agreement on foreign policy. We're going to work out our long-term interests with a value anchor that guarantees freedom and justice, peace and security, democracy and human rights. There is also a broad consensus that where Norway has competence and resources, we have to play an international role to ensure peace and to alleviate hardship. I believe that the new red-green government is essentially continuing this tradition – with some exceptions. The Prime Minister was busy in the election campaign that what he called chaos in Stortinget would end with a plural government. It's possible he's right. The House has shown that it has been a calm budgetary procedure for the majority government. The root now appears to have moved into the Government instead. There has been a great deal of concern about this government's policy, among other things. in the case of contributions to Afghanistan, the use of so-called veto rights for EU directives and later no boycott by Israel. Central SV politicians require the Government to implement such a boycott, but the government's signals are ambiguous. The last time in the defence debate on Friday, we witnessed a fuzzy line from the government councils and from different government parties. I am therefore asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs today to clarify what is this government's policy in this area. I think it's an eye-catching vision of democracy when SV doesn't want to boycott Iran, which is a disaster when it comes to human rights, but will boycott Israel, which is the only democracy in the Middle East, although I also want to confirm what the representative Valle said, that of course it is the thing to criticize Israel for. Of course, there is an occupation, on which there must be a solution through negotiations. It is not a matter of criticising Israel's dispositions with the wall and other things relating to Israel's policy. But it's all about the fact that one towards the only democracy in the Middle East is willing to use boycott. It's going to be inconsistent. These examples challenge the broad agreement that has traditionally been on foreign policy. It may have an impact on Norway’s role as a bridge builder between the Middle East parties. I ask again what the representative Vallersnes did not get the answer to: Is it that the boycott of the one party will give room for Norway's continuation as a party to the Middle East peace process? As in foreign policy, it has traditionally also had a broad consensus in development policy in the United Kingdom. Norway has a responsibility to work for a social and international order that fights against poverty and does not undermine its own work in the fight against poverty. Norway must therefore work for greater justice in areas such as trade, debt management and investment. We should also be involved in a strong increase in international aid. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Norway is at the forefront of development policy, and that the red-green government has promised to pursue an offensive and ambitious development policy. The Bondevik II Government increased assistance by DKK 1.9 billion in its budget for 2006. It is the strongest investment ever made in aid. Since 2001, the aid has increased by around DKK 6.2 billion. I am pleased that the Stoltenberg administration has kept up the high level of assistance for 2006. Right, there's a little increase of 9 million. kr, but this goes to cover refugee expenses in Norway. The last time in the election campaign was SV busy criticising such a use of aid money, but it seems that this has been forgotten in the government position. Now I'm also going to say in the name of honesty that it has the Christian People's Party a number of times our busy should be moved. We haven't made that clear, and neither has SV made it this time. Actually, there should be a common goal for us to get there, and so I'm going to challenge the government to say something about what one thinks about it. Because I mean it doesn't belong there. The large increase in the budget facilitates more poverty-reduction assistance. The Bondevik II government went in for a lift to Africa with DKK 1 billion and concrete targets for Norwegian aid to Africa. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the biggest change in the Stoltenberg government's development budget is just a sharp reduction in aid to our countries of cooperation in Africa. The biggest cuts in the Minister of Development's contribution are in the assistance to Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia and Tanzania, some of the poorest countries in the world. They're about 193.5 million. kr less than the development minister Frafjord Johnson had advised. There is a broad consensus in the United Kingdom that Africa and the poorest countries should be given priority. It was later expressed when the Stortinget treats St.meld. No 35 for 2003–2004, Joint fight against poverty. There is also a joint committee today that points to the fact that the African countries south of the Sahara are facing the greatest challenges of reaching the Millennium Goals. Only half of the countries are expected to achieve the target of halved poverty. This has to do with war and conflict, poor governance, weak economic development, debt problems and poor international framework conditions for trade. The picture is exacerbated when taking part in the AIDS epidemic and reducing global aid to Africa. In view of these major challenges in African countries, emphasising the UN's Millennium Goals and desiring a stronger poverty correction of development work, it is so important for the Christian People's Party that Norway is in favour of a billion-dollar lift to Africa and that a target figure for aid to Africa is introduced. I have noticed that the Minister of Development, in a letter to the Committee, cannot promise that 65 pst. the Norwegian aid will go to Africa by 2010, but one will come back to this. I choose to interpret it as there is a hope that one will actually do it, and should wait and see further how the Minister of Development and the Government of Stoltenberg will handle it. I have also noticed that the Red-Green Cooperation Party will prioritise Africa through the UN. I am pleased that the UN's promises are increasing, but not that our aid to the poorest countries in Africa is going to go beyond it. Here I would say that when a first person had more money at his disposal, and a reason for the tax change that one should get more money at his disposal, it is regrettable that none of them are spent on the poorest, simply on development. When one first had more money at its disposal, it would be amazing if the government would have spent part of it on the new United Nations bet. It is true that the assistance is channelled to our countries of cooperation. They need to plan for the long term, and therefore cooperation with the governance of the main cooperation countries should normally be financed from the land framework. Bilateral assistance shall mainly be used to support the implementation of own poverty plans by the Governing Boards. Cooperation is concentrated on fewer sectors in each country where conditions permit. Budget and sectoral support should be provided. There are several who have now expressed concern that this government is shifting its focus from the long-term assistance, such as bilateral state-to-state aid, to more nudity and conflict work. From Norway's side, we must demand good governance and a fight against corruption. In addition to that, the country itself must be in the driver's seat. The Vice-Chairman of the International Division of the LO is concerned that assistance to the UN is going beyond the state-to-state aid to Africa. I am amazed that the parties in government today do not see the value of working for stable and secure states, by strengthening their capacity. I will also regret the cut to voluntary organisations of 46.5 million. kr. The Christian People's Party has always invested heavily in the voluntary organisations, because they often have very good local knowledge and cooperate closely with their partners. The rationale for the cut, that one refers to the Rattsø selection's review that comes in June next year, is a kind of argument that is often used. But I thought it would be a good idea to wait until there is an explanation that might give a reason for why you should cut, not cut and discount your selection in advance. So I'll just say a few words in the end about how important it is to make sure that the poor themselves can work out of poverty by their own talent and resources. I would like to mention microcredit here separately. It's the United Nations year for microcredit this year. With small loans, millions of women and men have started their business. The microcredit system reaches poor people who would otherwise never have received money from established banks in the country. I hope that here we can find good solutions for further strengthening this poverty banking business that microcredit represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e531	First, something that I fully agree with, namely what Jon Lilletun said about the importance of microcredit. I've been and seen how amazing this system has worked in Bangladesh. There we also know that there is a very large refund rate. It is really an effective tool for poor seas to rise out of their poverty. Christian People's Party praises support for non-governmental organisations, and there we fully agree. Civil society, democracy, depends on us having the voluntary organizations. Then it becomes a paradox that while Jon Lilletun's representative is criticising money cut to voluntary organisations – but it is the same as the 2005 budget – the government has cut Bondevik's appropriations for the peace organisations, for the information work there. I want to hear what the Christian People's Party really thinks about it cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e538	The Christian People's Party actually thinks about it cut, and about the need for it to be an entry for that arrangement, is coming out of the budget position today. Within the extra funds that came in there, it was quite natural that one went into the post of the Peace Organizations, and that one went into the cultural effort made by the government of Stoltenberg. So there I think the representative Valle and the Christian People's Party are quite a few. But it's still going to be 46.5 million. kr less to voluntary organisations in the current budget than it was in that submitted by the government of Bondevik, at the post I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e543	After all, the Christian People's Party is a party that is very concerned about the fight against global poverty and is also concerned that foreign policy and security policy are anchored in international law. That's very good. But it is only now, in the Soria Moria Declaration, that the principle of international law is so strong and so clearly established in the very foundation of a Norwegian Government's position in foreign policy. The new government clearly states that Norway’s role as a peace nation should be to work actively to strengthen the UN and international law, and to further develop the UN and international law as a commitment agency for all nations. And we clearly state that Norwegian participation in international operations should be enshrined in the UN Pact and should have a clear UN mandate. This is stated in the Government Declaration. As you know, we also strengthen Norway's role as a peace nation now in the budget, through, among other things, strengthening important parts of UN cooperation. Does the representative of the Christian People's Party think that the fact that the principle of international law and the prioritisation of the UN is now so clear and clear from the Norwegian side as a result of the policy of the new government is a step in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e552	When it comes to building on the UN and on the principle of international law in military action, it was a very clear priority from the previous government as well. It appeared in the committee setting of both the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, where one had perfectly clear driving rules when it came to establishing the principle of international law, which might be based on armed action. When it comes to the Soria Moria statement saying mention of the UN and the priority of it, I would say that what it says is positive. I said something about it in relation to the budget, that when a first priority was to be given, it should not have happened to the cuts that came into the budget in other areas. It has suggested that an evaluation is as clear in the area as one has been in other areas, because it is quite clear that the United Nations has a long way to go to be effective enough. But otherwise, I would say it is positive what the Soria Moria Declaration says about the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e559	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e562	The Central Party is pleased that the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have so clearly followed up the Soria Moria declaration with a strong focus on the north. To manage the natural resources of the region – both renewable and non-renewable – in a sustainable and sound manner, a broad political consensus is needed on both the objectives and the means of the Northern Region policy. The development potential of the region could be crucial for our northernmost states, for Norway as a nation and for our continent. It is important to coordinate human and economic resources in order to achieve this objective. We need to be able to create a policy that belongs to the people of the north and that inspires understanding and interaction nationally and across the borders of our neighbouring countries in the north. Here, I would particularly like to emphasise the cooperation with our great neighbour in the east, but also within the EU and with them on the other side of the Atlantic. The Central Party welcomes the fact that the Government has already set up a sample led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to discuss fisheries, oil and energy, the environment, nutrition, justice, municipal and regional policies, knowledge and work, indigenous peoples, health policy, transport policy and Nordic cooperation. This is important in order to achieve a comprehensive Northern Region strategy. The central party is also pleased that the Government is thus focusing on a long-term and cross-sectoral focus on research and development in the north. In several of the budget chapters, the Government has been able to adjust its budgetary resources to ensure that the emphasis of the northern regions has started. This is the Central Party satisfied with, but it is important to stress that this is only the beginning of a work that requires determined and long-term effort. Let me in this context be allowed to point to areas that in the next round will be relevant to strengthening. It's: university environment, higher education institutions and research-environment-architective competencemargining of infrastructure strengthening of community-based economics policy bilateral/multilateral contacts This provides a unique opportunity for the north and south of a joint effort for the country. Here it is essential to have a good dialogue between professional bodies, organisations, policy and administrative environments in the north. A policy that is well-established locally and regionally is also a good policy for the nation. So move on to another foreign policy topic. The Committee is committed to the importance of strengthening business and trade for developing countries. The development of institutions and competences as well as the establishment of favourable and predictable rules and framework conditions in the field of industrial policy are important elements in this work. An overall committee emphasises that while maintaining the principle of unbound assistance, NORFUND shall endeavour to strengthen cooperation with Norwegian industry and Norwegian aid actors at home and abroad in the recipient country. In the pre-budget review consultation round, there were clear signals that the tendering guarantee scheme did not function as intended. The Committee has therefore asked the Government to come back with a briefing on how the experience of the new tender guarantee scheme has been so far and whether it will be considered whether it is appropriate to implement changes to the scheme. I would also like to mention that the budgetary reduction made for the work of the IWC has been made in agreement with the relevant actors. In this context, it is important to stress that the work done is of great importance for the whaling industry in Norway. Developments in work will be closely followed in the coming period. It has been claimed from several teams, including here today, that the Government is now reducing aid to Africa. This does not lead to correctness. On the other hand, it is right to place greater emphasis on transfers to the United Nations. The Central Party is pleased that the Government follows up the Soria Moria Declaration in this way, and sees strengthening the UN as a very important element in aid to Africa and other parts of the world. The Committee also notes that the number of refugees arriving in Norway is expected to decline and notes that the proposed reduction in the allocation for refugee measures reflects this. Finally, I would like to announce that the Central Party is well pleased with the current budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, not least in view of the fact that the Government gives clear signals that the northern regions will be Norway's main strategic focus in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e617	In Norway’s international commitment, the fight for human rights and democratic principles must have the highest priority in order to achieve a fair distribution and sustainable economic development. The left wants Norway to fight for increased attention to human rights violations. The last few days’ attention around the use of torture by the Chinese authorities should not go unnoticed, and I assume that the Government in any contact with the Chinese authorities is clear on Norway’s view of torture. Human rights are also threatened in the western part of the world. Last week, the United States executed prisoner No. 1 000 since the death penalty was reintroduced in 1976. The left believes Norway has to address our criticism of the death penalty to the United States. How can we expect states such as the United States? Saudi Arabia is going to take on criticism of human rights violations, when Western democracies and close allies like the United States are demonstrating such a manifest lack of respect for human rights? There is still every reason to be particularly clear to the United States in this criticism. The left notes that at the end of the four-year period of government Bondevik II, Norway had a high reputation in NATO and is a respected global contributor to the UN and to peace and reconciliation efforts, assistance and relief, human rights and democracy. The foreign policy agenda has changed significantly between 2001 and 2005. The management of conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq has been among the most demanding issues some Norwegian government have faced in recent decades. The Bondevik II government stressed the need to achieve maximum consensus within NATO and tried to counter transatlantic tensions where these occurred. The Left believes that the same overall considerations should also be taken into account by the Government of Stoltenberg II, as the challenges in Afghanistan and Iraq are far from over. The left goes on to refer to the efforts of the Bondevik II Government for peace and reconciliation, among others. in Sri Lanka and Sudan, and is satisfied with the objective of the Stoltenberg II Government in the budget submitted to continue this work. In addition, reference is made to the high priority of UN cooperation under the Government of Bondevik II, and the Left welcomes the increased efforts of the United Nations in relation to the evaluation of the organisation’s work and functioning. The left is also pleased with the intention of the government of Stoltenberg II to continue an active European policy and refers to the extensive work of Bondevik II in this area over the four-year period. We welcome the fact that the Government of Stoltenberg II intends to continue active Norwegian cooperation with Russia as well as with other Arctic countries in order to solve tasks within, among other things, environment, resource management, health and energy. It will do well to solve the challenges in the north. The left will underline the need for an overall management plan for the Barents Sea and recall the input and warnings received from the environmental movement, the SFT and the Natural Management Directorate in the hearings of 19th concession rounds. A common fight against poverty may be the biggest foreign policy task we are facing. The need for a comprehensive development policy was addressed in the Development Communication, which makes it clear that Norwegian development policy should be aligned with the UN’s Millennium Goals. The left notes that the aid's share of gross national income has increased from 0.83 p.m. from 2001 to 0,95 pst. in 2005 and that the Bondevik II Government has extinguished DKK 1.85 billion of the poorest countries’ debt to Norway without charging the aid budget. Assistance from non-governmental organisations has increased throughout this four-year period. The Bondevik II Government has worked to ensure poverty-related assistance. This was reflected again in the 2006 budget of the Bondevik II government, where a guaranteed $1 billion to a promise for Africa. The left supports the creation of a separate target for aid to Africa and to the rest of the so-called low-income countries. The AIDS epidemic is one of the main barriers to development. The left will therefore stress the importance of investing in the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the UN Population Programme, the UN Children’s Fund and the UN AIDS Programme. The left considers that the World Health Organisation, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative and the International Partnership for Microbisides must also be invested. It also refers to Bondevik II's increased investment in the fight against HIV/AIDS by 300 million. kr for 2006. 100 million children are currently lacking basic education, and the majority of these are girls. Therefore, the Left is very positive to the Bondevik II government's increase in education aid by 133 million. kr, and we're satisfied with that 464 million. kr shall be allocated to the UNICEF girls training programme. Ensuring that women in the Third World receive education is the most effective means of combating long-term poverty. Studies show that women who receive education also provide much more education for their own children. South Africa spends a total of $10 billion a year on debt servicing. This is four times as much as the same countries spend on health and education. Today's international debt cancellation regimes need to be extended so that several poor countries can cancel their debt. Debts must be given to countries showing the ability and willingness to reform against better governance and investment in health and education. Norway must work to ensure that debt relief is not financed from national aid budgets. The UN must be better equipped to deal with crises occurring at short notice. That's why the Bondevik II government added a huge increase of 100 million. kr to the UN Emergency Aid Fund in relation to the 2005 budget. The left wants to strengthen environmental efforts and is therefore satisfied with the increase of 62 million in the Bondevik II government’s appropriations. to the environment and follow-up of the Johannesburg Summit. We believe that non-governmental organisations are important actors as channels for Norwegian assistance. In all budgetary proposals from the Bondevik II Government, the appropriations allocated to voluntary organisations and other actors in civil society have increased. We therefore support the Bondevik II proposal for 2006 to further increase the allocation of 37 million to non-governmental organisations. kr. The left will also show that support for agricultural development has been significantly increased over several years, and that Bondevik II provided for an increase of 70 million. kr for 2006. With regard to imports from the least developed countries, the so-called MUL countries, customs and quota freedom was granted to these countries in 2002. The Left considers it important that the WTO Doha Round, also referred to as the Development Round, should become part of an international trade regime that strengthens the ability and ability of developing countries to export agricultural products, including to Norway. The left notes that the government of Stoltenberg II wants to reduce the allocations to the Balkans and ODA-approved OSCE countries in the Caucasus and Central Asia. The flood disaster in Asia in December 2004 is one of the main challenges facing Norwegian civil protection and international services for many years. The Left is pleased with the signals on further reform of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards an open, dynamic and forward-looking knowledge organisation and asks the Government to brief the Government on the progress of this work. Norwegian foreign policy has essentially been characterised by consensus. However, the draft budget for the Government shows that there are different views on instruments and priorities. The left supports a foreign policy based on the United Nations as the most central actor, but there is reason to ask questions about the device on the aid operation. While Bondevik II largely supported targeted bilateral efforts against individual countries and regions, particularly in Africa, Stoltenberg II is channelling more funds through the UN system and so-called regional allocations. The image of Africa has been marked by war, hunger and suffering, but peace agreements and democratic development change the continent. Many countries are characterized by civil war, political violence and a weak state apparatus. Wars and violent conflicts constitute a huge obstacle to development. The African Union is important for a positive development in Africa. Assistance is needed to help poor countries out of poverty. Assistance must be provided to ensure clean water, its own food production and the necessary health care, and it must provide good education and infrastructure for people. SV has notified boycotts of Israel. SV, together with the Centre Party, has also gone high on the track and announced extensive use of veto in both European and other international cooperation forums. [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs]] Products such as boycott and veto should, in the opinion of the Left, be used with brilliance and caution. Finally...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e668	Then you're out of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e671	... will refer to the same working group that has been set up. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e676	The president reminds me that speaking time is over. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e681	I am pleased that the representative from the Left also took the time to mention the northern regions in his post, even though it was almost in a confession. What I've recorded in this room in other debates, where we've also tapped into the north areas, is that we've pointed out that this is a follow-up to the Bondevik II government's efforts in this area. I have recorded that there was little economy in those words. I tried in my post to demonstrate changes in the budget and will claim that we have followed up the words of action a long time ago. My question to the Left will then be: do you agree that this is a stronger and clearer effort than that underpinned by the Bondevik II government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e686	I thank you for the question and just want to answer the representative Samuelsen that this has always been important to the Left, and that we are positive about the efforts of the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e691	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e694	I welcome the broad support that has emerged from the debate today on the main lines of the Government's foreign and security policy. Now this is a budget debate, but we still get illustrations on it. I can endorse the presentation by the representative of Vallersnes of my contribution to the UN delegation on 31 October, where I briefed the staff of the delegation on the main lines of the Government's security and foreign policy. I have highlighted three main lines: the first is the importance of an international legal society, where strong people cannot cope, and where the use of power must be regulated by law. The second is the trace of NATO and the EU, being a friend of our friends. The third is to make an effort for peace, reconciliation and development, where Norway has the opportunity to exercise a special influence. With regard to my responsibilities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget, I would like briefly to comment on some of the areas where changes have been made and where we have received the agreement of the Committee. The first is a reversal of the cut to press, culture and information. Here it's been cut evenly for years, and the cut that was inside from the Bondevik government would have represented 40 pst. of the aid for this purpose. Once again, on a large budget, it's not a big sum, but we got a raise of 20 million. kr back and thus turned the cut and pointed in another direction. It is also gratifying to record that there is broad support in the Committee for using the press, culture and information as an important instrument to contribute to increased knowledge, interest and attention to modern Norway. This is about strengthening Norway’s reputation. From the authority’s point of view, it concerns Norwegian business and travel, the university and research sectors and cultural life. I will, together with the Minister of Culture, have a meeting with leading organisations in Norwegian cultural life to hear their views on how to set up an increased initiative. This initiative is part of the Government’s Cultural Promise, and the increased appropriation is part of this promise. It is also true that we have a special responsibility when we now go into an Ibsen-year, but I have also noticed the representative Valle's words that modern culture should also be taken into account. Now many people think Ibsen is getting more and more modern, and so we can bet on it too. Then we have been given increased support for information to peace organisations, who have been brought up here today. Once again, it is about small amounts in the big context, but about very important amounts and seeds to organisations that live on very little and that can get a lot from less allocations. The same applies to support for European information. There, we believe that supporting organisations that inform about different aspects of our relationship with Europe is a way to pursue an active European policy, not least on the knowledge side – to increase commitment and knowledge. Then I will join Samuelsen's representative in emphasising the Northern Region policy. I think he gave a very broad approach to what is also the Government's approach. This is more than part-line negotiations and enforcement in the fishing protection zone. It is about development — industrial development, work, education and culture in the whole of the northern part of the country, and really in a broader European perspective. We have increased funding for knowledge and research in this area, which we have called ‘Barents 2020’, and an additional 10 million. kr. Let me also mention that 5 million. NOK 20 million. kr that are earmarked for press, culture and information are earmarked for Northern bets in connection with the North Region bet. Then I have five notes in terms of what's produced in the hall. One is to the representative, Mr Høglund, who stressed the importance of being critical of the work and equipment of the United Nations. I would like to start by saying that I agree with that. I believe that, as a great giver, we must be a critical giver, in the sense that it is important to large bureaucracies and large organizations that donors follow closely. I also agree with Mr Vallersnes’ emphasis on the useful experience of the World Bank in some evaluation, monitoring competence, which is necessary. Norway intends to be a constructive supporter of the UN. Both the Minister for Development and I have stressed in articles that Norway will know to make demands in relation to the appropriations we give. Unlike those who want to reform the United Nations Secretariat by building it down, we see that the best support we can give to the United Nations is that we also make demands for efficiency and targeting in the way the United Nations Secretariat works. The importance of the UN – this is not a budgetary matter – is not least the importance of anchoring the use of power in international law and by explicit decisions in the Security Council. It's an important part of the government's policy. My second comment is related to assistance. That will be widely returned by the Minister for Development. But I also want to say that what the Right says, is valuable, that they now join the broad track where one will have escalating support for development. It was the case that the right in 2001 went to the elections on a cut in the aid of 20-25 pst. I will therefore give tribute to the government of Bondevik for contributing to the change in that line. With regard to the question of a possible boycott of Israel, I can say here on this pulpit that it is not the government's policy. It is not enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration. It's perfectly legitimate that parties in the government have a view of what you want to promote in the social debate, but it's not the government's policy. On behalf of the Workers' Party I can also make it quite clear. If Norway is to play a role in the Middle East, which we intend to do, it is important that we use all the funds through dialogue, and to be an intermediary, an intermediate station, between the parties. We have also clarified here, in the debate just over a week ago, that there is also no rise in a boycott of Iran. I want to underline that. Then I would like to comment on the emphasis of the representative Larsen that Norway should always address the question of torture. Torture is unacceptable and illegal – always, everywhere and at all times. Norway will state whether it is against China, the United States or other allies. Finally, let me say a little about the Administrative Budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I notice that the Committee stresses the importance of being prepared to deal with crisis situations. We are approaching December 26th and the anniversary of the tsunami. I fully agree with the Committee's emphasis. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now in the process of building up a new crisis management organisation with facilities and equipment, and not least procedures, which will ensure that future crisis operations abroad are better equipped. I want to praise my predecessor for the work he has done in that area, a work I have done in detail. I find that we should now, at least on the assumption, be well equipped to deal with such situations. This is the result of Storting’s treatment of the entire case complex related to the river wave disaster and the spillage message that followed. In the Department of Home Affairs and the Outpatient Service, full emphasis is now placed on building up skills, frequent exercises, improved communication equipment and the development of new facilities for crisis management, to mention something. Increased operating costs and the continuation of some investments represent increased costs to this field also next year. We will come back with this and inform Stortinget about it. I have also been asked if the Government intends to inform the Storting about the changes we want to make in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' organisation to make this a living knowledge organisation. I have answered by stressing that the organization of the departments is the responsibility of the Government, but with the interest attached to this issue, and the good thing that this is, I intend to get back to the Storting in an appropriate way and inform you of the thought we have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e730	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e733	The government claims that it wants more attention around the North Region policy, which we fully agree with. The presence and activity of securing our interests in the northern regions is very important, and here our coastguard will play a crucial role. By means of press releases, it has been found that there is a shortage from time to time, among other things. helicopters and other equipment obviously needed to perform these essential tasks. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs state whether he is satisfied with such a situation and what action will he take to ensure that we have a coastguard well equipped to cope with the very important tasks they are assigned to carry out?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e742	I agree with the description of the significance of the Coast Guard. For this reason, the Government in its draft budget under the Ministry of Defence has also proposed an increase in the allocation to the Coast Guard, Orion aircraft and the Navy exercise pattern. It goes without saying that when the Coast Guard has an important role, the equipment must also be in order. We follow this closely. I can't go into the planes when it comes to the helicopter and equipment, but we've recently seen the importance of helicopters for the Coast Guard's operational capability. It's an area that will be given weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e750	Both articles in the newspapers in the last few days and the debate here clearly show that both corruption and government are concerned with international law, democracy and human rights. But that is the point of putting the principles into practice, and I would like to give an example: the Castro regime in Cuba refuses to meet Norwegian official representatives, and that is because our local consulate invites members of the democratic opposition to welcome. Gerd-Liv Valla now invites the VG Government on November 27 to suspend the opposition and weaken our dialogue with them to lure Castro to what she calls a dialogue. The EU has already moved in this direction two years ago, but it must itself note that Castro's repression of democracy in Cuba is just as severe. EU policy has not at all enriched Castro. Can the Foreign Minister assure that he will not weaken the dialogue with and support for the democratic opposition in Cuba in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e757	I have, after joining as Minister of Foreign Affairs, started a review in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the relationship with Cuba to get an overview of how our instruments work, whether they are aimed at promoting Norwegian vision – towards promoting democracy, human rights and development in Cuba. It is too early to comment on what such a review will lead to, but I can stress that Norway will not set up its policies to weaken the dialogue with opposition and human rights activists. What form such a dialogue should take in order to achieve other objectives we had to have in relation to Cuba, we'll see when we get an overview of the area and make an overall assessment. I also think it is too early to say whether the EU's now extended contacts have any effect. We know that Cuba goes into exciting and demanding years, where attention will be required from many — I think from Norway too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e762	I would like to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister has clarified a number of issues which have been raised in the debate here today, and in particular that he is now very clear in relation to the fact that it is not appropriate for the government of Stoltenberg to introduce some kind of boycott of the State of Israel. But I thought it was important to clarify one thing about that relationship. The ambiguity arose because Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, as SV-leader, said that the matter had not been dealt with in the Government. I assume that when the Foreign Minister here clearly says it's not appropriate for the Government to introduce a boycott, it's a finished answer, so to speak, so that the ambiguity that was created with the headlines in the Newspaper is not hanging again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e767	It is therefore fully possible for parties also in the government to have an ongoing political debate, discussion and reflection, and to make proposals that a government should consider in the run-up. I have stated that it is not the government's policy to have boycotted in relation to Israel. Now I will also add that Norway does not sell weapons to Israel – it has been about a gun boycott – because we do not sell weapons to areas of conflict and military action. But it is quite clear from the Government that boycott is not a general line, for which we have a great sense, in foreign policy. As the debate goes, I have full respect for it, but at the same time I want to state that the Government's position on this matter is perfectly clear – it is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e772	A UN mission recently carried out a historical torture investigation in several places in China. He states that torture is still widespread in the country, especially against prisoners. The abuse is often referred to as an almost integrated part of the system in a country with the world’s largest prisoner population. Despite promises of cooperation, the authorities blocked the investigation. The left believes that the human rights dialogue with China is of great importance and that the focus on torture should not diminish. Norway is with the other EFTA countries at the start of a bilateral negotiating agreement with China. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs ensure that Norway will work towards the inclusion of the theme of human rights in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e781	The strength of having a good relationship with and a broad dialogue with China is that we can address these questions in many different ways. I can confirm that we will continue to make our views known, for example. torture, and not least the use of the death penalty, which is widespread in China in relation to other countries. We will address that in all appropriate ways, and we will do so in bilateral contexts and in UN contexts. Whether this is a topic that comes up in the debates the representative has mentioned, I cannot comment entirely now. But I can confirm that it is high on the agenda in most of the meetings we have with the representatives of the Chinese authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e786	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e789	The northern regions are both politically, economically and strategically important for Norway. For too long, the Nordic regions have been a neglected area of Norwegian foreign policy. The government has now alerted greater attention to these areas, which also the committee leader, Olav Akselsen, was involved in its contribution. The Nordic regions have been very important for the Norwegian — and Nordic — industry because of fisheries resources. The Lofoten and the Barents Sea can also be of great importance to our petroleum activities in the years ahead if we give a political clear signal to this. It is already known that huge amounts of hydrocarbons are present in these pick-up strips. Petroleum activity in these areas, however, has been low and has almost stopped in recent years for political reasons. However, search has been carried out in the northern regions for three decades, and the Snow White field, for example, was found early in the 1980s. In recent years, however, we have been slowing down. This is not least due to the previous Stoltenberg government, which drew heavily in the handcuff in the summer of 2001. The Progress Party has proposed annual reopening in Stortinget since then, without having any impact. I am now recording that both the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are communicating in the media that we need to get to work in the north, but to facilitate this unfortunately is missing. Nor do we find any signs in the government statement to reopen the petroleum activity in the north. Only Nordland VI has been set up and it is stated that it will not be opened for petroleum activities. The decision on the remaining areas is under the cover of waiting for a comprehensive management plan for the whole area, despite the fact that over three decades, more than half a billion dollars have been spent on this. The main problem is that we have an environmental movement in Norway that has a strong influence on Norwegian politicians. They obviously believe that the world will stop asking for oil and gas if it is not produced in Norway. We have the most stringent laws on health, the environment and safety in the world on Norwegian soil, and we need to get started as soon as possible, as the option is that companies move to areas with completely different or no environmental requirements. The presence, predictability and power of action must be the characteristics of the Norwegian Northern Region policy. This is why, for example: absolutely necessary with the presence of the Norwegian Navy in the area around Svalbard. It is absolutely necessary to signal that the Norwegian authorities take responsibility for asserting Norwegian sovereignty over these areas very seriously and are willing to go far to ensure sovereignty. A broad international acceptance of the management role of Norway in the north can only be based on our appearance as the leading knowledge manager of these marine areas. A symbolismal concept of eternity that petroleum-free zones could damage our credibility and therefore our interests as well. It is also important that Norwegian authorities appear to be a serious and effective guardian of the protection zone. The trade must be clear, predictable and consistent with poaching and overfishing, whether from Russian vessels or from other nations. Our sovereignty over Svalbard must also be followed by presence and activity. Mining has so far been the main source of activity on Svalbard. In the past, the Norwegian authorities have understood that certain steps had to be taken to ensure that both work and residence at Svalbard were made attractive. Specific tax rules were therefore introduced for the area. The government and the majority of the population will now eliminate some of this and raise the income tax. The Progress Party sees a clear need to continue today's arrangements at the same level, and will therefore go against this tax tightening.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e813	I want to focus my article on Budget-inner. S. No 14, i.e. the Svalbard budget for 2006, since I am the rapporteur on this matter. There is a great deal of unanimity in this setting. The exemption applies to the changes in tax rates proposed in the valbard tax. The Nordic Region policy is at the heart of the Government's foreign policy. Svalbard and the surrounding sea areas have been at the centre of the events in the autumn. The events with Russian and Spanish fishing vessels show that Norwegian presence on and at Svalbard is very important. The objectives of the squalid policy were adopted at the time of the examination of St.meld. No 40 for 1985-86 and confirmed in St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000. The objectives are a consistent and firm enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty, proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and control of compliance with the Treaty, further preservation of tranquillity and stability, conservation of the unique wilderness nature of the area and maintenance of Norwegian society and business on the island group. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for coordinating the management’s work on polar matters in order to ensure a comprehensive Norwegian swallowing policy. Coordination takes place mainly in the Interministerial Polar Committee. The employment man, the government's top representative at Svalbard, and Longyearbyen local government are important co-players to ensure good management of the island group. The budget line for the 2006 valbard budget is approximately 188 million. kr. The deficit for 2006 is estimated at approximately 96 million. kr and is covered by a subsidy from the Ministry of Justice’s budget. Apart from the State grant, taxes and charges from Svalbard are the principal item of income. The draft State budget presented by the Bondevik II Government proposed that the principles of the tax reform should also apply to Svalbard, i.e. to introduce the protection method of share income and to harmonise the tax rates on entrepreneurial and capital income and wages and salaries also on Svalbard. Such harmonisation implies that the tax rate on employee income is increased from 8 p.m. to 12 pst. The present government parties maintain this proposal. I have noticed the strong reactions of Svalbard to these tax changes. I have also noticed that there is a work going on to review the tax system on Svalbard. I assume that local authorities at Svalbard are involved in this review. In such a review, the effects of the adopted changes in the tax system for Svalbard need to be clarified. The academic environments in Longyearbyen are now being gathered in Svalbard Research Park, which is being completed in the autumn of 2005. It is an important milestone in the development of society at Svalbard. It is also gratifying that the number of study places at the University Centre of Svalbard is increasing to 125. Research and education activities at Svalbard have developed positively in the last decade and have become central in both national and international contexts. With the new Arctic Marine Laboratory in New Ålesund, an important contribution to the research environment is established. The laboratory has received considerable international attention and a number of countries have already committed themselves to participating in the project. Climate change, as demonstrated by the major ACIA report, will have a much stronger impact in the Arctic than in the rest of the world. Research under Svalbard is helping to make important contributions to new knowledge of climate change impacts in this vulnerable environment Environmental and nature protection is an important theme of Svalbard. Environmental protection will focus, in particular, on the effective implementation of the Swallow Environment Act and on the further development of management plans to strengthen the area of protection. The effect of increasing traffic on vulnerable and vulnerable cultural memories and on the natural environment shall be monitored. Important areas of wildlife life shall be ensured against the influence of local activities. We're aware that Longyearbyen local government is working on new spatial plans, including plans for the port area. I would like to stress the importance of the fact that the departments concerned, in consultation with the local authorities of Svalbard, clarify any national needs that may exist and how they will be addressed through the planning process. Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani A/S faces major challenges after a fire broke out in Svea Nord-Gruva in July 2005. We still don't know the total consequence of the mine fire. The coal industry, together with knowledge and travel life, remains one of the pillars of the Svalbard community. I have noticed that the government will have a thorough dialogue with the company about the financial assumptions for further activity. With this I recommend the setting of the committee. I also refer you to the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e845	There are two seemingly conflicting things happening in the world at the same time. On the one hand, in the Far East, there is a broad process that brings more people out of poverty than in any other era ever. On the other hand, too many people are still living in poverty – as the reproach it is. Maybe there's 1 billion people living for less than $1 a day. Most of them live in Africa, but there's also a large number in Asia. So there's a lot of progress for many, while too many people are left in poverty. If you go back 40 years, you'll see that Ghana and South Korea were just as rich. And you could say more than that: almost everyone in the world said that it was Ghana that had the good prospects, and South Korea that had the bad ones. Today South Korea is 10 or 15 times – I don't know – so rich per. builds up like Ghana, and the difference only increases. Of course, the question of the tens of thousands is: What happens when, in some parts of the world, poverty is eliminated – a theme you have never seen – while others are left in poverty? I think the answer is that it's a big whole. Just as no one can say that there was a single factor that brought Norway out of poverty, neither is there a single factor that has brought South Korea — and more and more people in China, Taiwan and Thailand — out of poverty. There is a broad historical process, how many factors work at the same time: a relatively sensible policy, a quite strong and well-functioning state, an open and market-based economy — where goods can be sold to other parts of the world — and cultural factors. It's the sum of all these factors that bring me out of poverty. Therefore, the policy of the new government must necessarily also be seen as a contribution to the fight against poverty as an instrument in a long-term and broad historical process. But we don't have to go into anything that makes one an excuse for the other. It's totally unacceptable to think that because we provide a lot of assistance, we don't have to open our markets to third-world products. The opposite is also totally unacceptable, as I see it, namely that if you just open your markets, it will be enough – then you don't have to provide assistance. Both parts are necessary, and it is this broad process that can work. I am pleased with the connection that several have given to the Government's goal of 1 pst. of our GNI will go to assistance during this period. I have to say as several other speakers: I am particularly pleased that the Right, if not precisely – it would be nice if the Right does – has joined this goal, and I would like the Right to become a press group to keep this aid target up. In any case, the broad anchoring we now have is good, where a total bulk – except the Advance Party – wants to keep Norwegian aid at a very high level. I also noticed that the representative, Höglund, said that he thought this would be a priority in the budgets of this government in the future. I can promise it will be. I also think there are trends in the thinking of the Progress Party in the debate here today that are a movement, as I see it, in a sensible direction. The government chooses to bet on the UN. It is not because we believe that the UN is perfect, but it is exactly the same as if the Progress Party were to have a majority in this Chamber – if God were to forbid them – the SV and this government would believe that we need to strengthen the Storting as a legislative authority. In any case, a strong national legislative authority is needed. In the same way, you need the UN as a norm maker in the world community. No one else can set those standards. Think of what the UN has meant for the world, for example. by setting human rights standards! You need the UN as a decision maker. No one else can commit on behalf of the world society to the use of the ultimate means of power, namely violence. You need the UN to run programs all over the world. For this political reason — a small country such as Norway needs more than anyone else a strong UN — we want to focus more on the UN. It is not without making demands, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. The fact that we want to focus more on the UN means that we want to make stronger demands. And we will use further the means Norway will give to the United Nations to demand more influence over the operation of UN organisations. Then someone has raised the question of whether the government is paying too little in Africa. It's a sort of debate. There's nothing in what's presented here that will mean less money to Africa. If you go in to transfer money for vaccine purposes, many of the syringes will of course be put in Africa just now. If you go for money to the UN Emergency Aid Fund or to the UN Peace Building Fund, of course, many of that money will be invested in just Africa. So it's a kind of a debate if it's said that the government will do less in Africa. On the contrary, we will do more – not as a criticism of the previous government, but because new opportunities are opening up. Among other things, Norway has now had a significant role to play in the so-called Africa Partnership Forum, where there are great expectations that we will be the driving force behind this in the next year. We'll try to be. And we want to do more in Sudan, not because the previous government made it so bad in Sudan, but because there's a lot new happening in Sudan. Sudan is the country in Africa where Norway has the greatest influence, where it is the biggest expectations of Norway, and where Norway’s ambassador, Tom Vraalsen, has come into a very central position as head of the Monitoring Commission for Armistice Rest. He will have Norway's absolutely full support in his work, because he is simply the Northman who today matters most to development anywhere in Africa. So, in my opinion, also the discussion about percentages is a kind of debate, precisely because at the moment you channel funds into vaccine purposes or the UN funds etc., you can't decide on the tip of how much of this is going to Africa. Those who give money to e.g. The UN Emergency Aid Fund or the UN Peace Building Fund cannot know in advance exactly where the crises or conflicts will come and exactly where the money will be used. It'll be very little flexible if we get equipped with a very large number of these percentages. I therefore believe that we only need to look at this relatively flexibly, and we will come back to Stortinget in a suitable form to discuss the use of such percentages. Then some have discussed as if the Government proposed cut. So there is no cut-off on any point in the Minister for Development's budget. There are some transfers of money in relation to the Bondevik government budget, but there is no cut in relation to reality. And that's probably the most important thing. Not at any point, as far as I can remember, you've got less money this year. But it's the shift of some of what was proposed by Hilde Frafjord Johnson, to other purposes that we think right now are more important. In the debate, several have raised the need for efficiency. Let there be no doubt about it: we are going to try to follow every penny and make sure that it is used as efficiently as possible. It may not be that assistance should be a sacred area where you should not ask if the money is spent sensibly. If it's proven that the money's been spent unreasonablely, we're going to change it and use it in a more sensible way. But this is not different from what we have to do on the road budget, or what we do in terms of economic development or in any other area. I sat on the Committee on Transport for four years, and frankly: it was not that it was not a single unreasonable transport project in Norway. It wasn't even like every penny that was used in the very best way. But none of us came to the conclusion that it was halving the transport budget. The conclusion of this was to think about how we could use the transport budget even more rationally for the purpose of creating good communication in Norway. This is exactly the case with the development budget; it shall be as highly efficient and sensible as possible, with the aim of contributing to further development for each and every crown set aside. This has been an excellent debate, as I see it, which has shown broad support for Government policy in this area, and I thank you for that. I would like to end by saying that a lot of people have asked me questions in the last two months about what will be the new development policy in relation to Hilde Frafjord Johnsons. I intend to come back to Stortinget in a presentation once in the spring. I hope that will be accepted. I just want to say that to the extent that you look for something new, I think the most recent thing is that it's going to be more political. We will continue to see development policy as an extension of Norwegian domestic and foreign policies, and we will look for areas where Norway's contribution can mean the greatest difference internationally. We can't just ask the question that has been asked in this debate many times: where are the greatest needs? For the needs are enormous, both in Africa, in large parts of Asia and in Latin America, for that matter. But we have to ask the question all the time: where does Norway have a special prerequisite for doing something that means a difference? I would like to end by saying that we have a particular environmental condition, in terms of oil and energy, in terms of peace and reconciliation, and in terms of keeping a high female profile in international aid. These are going to be four areas that I want to give priority, because here we have more prerequisites for doing something that means a difference than in many other areas that are also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e880	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e883	Norwegian aid policy has been characterised by almost limitless genius and naivety over a number of years. It's obvious later to think that even the worst despot or dictator will be nice as a lamb only it drops tens of millions of dollars from Norway. Unfortunately, aid policy has been characterised by passive financial assistance without any requirement for the recipient. We see that organisations, such as the Power Foundation, provide good results in providing assistance through loans and claims to the borrower. The Council of State gave some positive signals here on the pulpit to improve Norwegian aid. I would therefore like to ask: What action will the Government take to make Norwegian aid policy more targeted and effective? And will you look at it in other ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e890	No, it may not be possible to provide assistance without requirements for the recipient. It hasn't been like this, and it shouldn't be like this in the future either. It would really mean that you just put money into a country and tell the leaders of the country that they can spend this money as they want. It's unacceptable. So there has to be a demand for development aid recipients for significant values. But it is not that it is certain that the best way to help poor people in a country that is a dictatorship is to forget that country. Voluntary organisations are often an important channel for reaching poor people, including in a country that is a dictatorship, and can often help, reasonably used in a country that is a dictatorship, is what gives room for opposition to help change the country. I am not familiar with the description given by the Progress Party of how Norwegian assistance is operated, but we agree that combating dictatorship is an important task, and frankly I also believe that assistance can be an important tool in getting it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e897	We have focused on the issue around the World Bank before today, because it is one of the areas that is given priority when prioritizing transfers to the UN. The government's skepticism to the World Bank has been visible both in the Soria Moria Declaration and in the State budget – despite the fact that the World Bank has met Norway and other donor countries in many areas in terms of priorities. At the same time, it is well known that the World Bank is an important supporter of several peace processes in which Norway is heavily engaged, not least in Sri Lanka and the Middle East. The question then is whether the government is planning to weaken the World Bank there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e902	It may not be that it is forbidden to say anything nice about the World Bank. It is true that the World Bank has played a very constructive role in the peace process in Sri Lanka. As paradoxical as it may be, it was the guerrilla organization of the Tamil tigers who wanted the World Bank into the relief work on Sri Lanka, perhaps more than the government, that wanted the UN in that setting. There is nothing obvious either – or, they agreed on the World Bank, and the World Bank played a very constructive role. It is also positive that the World Bank is moving away from what was long called the Washington Consensus, which was not good, and which helped to force poor countries into neoliberal and dangerous policies. It is gratifying to see that representatives of the World Bank now sometimes speak as if they were to be influenced by the Soria Moria statement, for they say that equality is crucial for development all over the world. Equality is not contrary to economic growth, but, on the contrary, equality is a prerequisite for the greatest possible degree of integration in a society into the process of economic growth. That's why equality is good for economic development. Our main reason for reducing the World Bank is that we want to strengthen the UN. To strengthen the UN, that money must necessarily be taken from somewhere. We therefore want to reduce the World Bank in order to strengthen the UN. At the same time, we want to influence the World Bank to move away from further liberalisation and privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e909	I allowed myself to repeat that it is more likely that it is the influence of the government Bondevik II, via Hilde Frafjord Johnson, has had on the World Bank, which means that the World Bank is now to the right as the Soria Moria statement. There has certainly been more impact from there than from a statement that has just come. I believe that Solheim will be a brilliant development minister, and he will have a constructive but critical opposition in the Christian People's Party, who wants to put pressure on this area. But when he calls a percentage discussion a 'like-debate', and when he calls the changes that are made, a 'like-debate', it must be wrong. I want to refer to one of the stacks, i.e. the target of 1 pst. of gross domestic product, which the previous government, after an effort by the Christian People's Party, had, and which the current government has. This is an example of the importance of such stackstones. This may be in relation to major development policy objectives. I expect the Minister for Development to agree on this as an overarching issue, and then I expect him to come back with the concrete when it comes to Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e916	I would first like to thank the representative, Jon Lilletun, for his kind words and to reproduce them and say that if the main debate on development policy in Norway could be that the Christian People's Party criticises the new red-green government for doing too little in this area, I think it is absolutely excellent – and we will also need watchbucks that are appropriate. There is no one better in that way than the Christian People's Party, so I would say: Just hold up the pressure and pressure on the Government, so that we reach the goals we've set ourselves. When I talked about kind of-debate, it obviously wasn't the goal of reaching 1 pst. GDP. It's a very important goal because it has a huge international symbolic force. Sweden is in the process of achieving that goal and, of course, this government will ensure that Norway reaches that goal during that period. But on the other hand, to equip yourself with a series of other measures about just on the dot how many tenths to go to Africa etc. – that’s what we get back to – I’m not sure is the most sensible thing. There are already 20 or 30 different strategies in development policy with a range of different numerical targets. Obviously, if you have so many strategies, it's very easy that you end up not having any strategy at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e923	I notice that one government council after another is trying to describe the history of the Right relationship to the level of assistance, but it can be read in the St.meld setting. No 35 for 2003–2004. What it says is that I have as rapporteur of the case in the pen myself. We recognize what it says, but I want to say at the same time, and you have to take it inward, that when we work to increase to 1 pst, and keep it in the years to come, we will at the same time be a driver for better measurement, results measurement and methodological evaluation. To do that, it's not enough to promise to do the best you can. Here, I think it really takes a very concrete systematic method development work to see what you can do. It is not least because of the need to reform and provide new ways of providing assistance, for example: budget support. Is this what the Government wants to go into?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e928	I'm really not particularly concerned with the criticism of the Right Past, we can safely leave it. The important thing is that the Right now, as this debate shows, is a constructive player in the present and future. So I'd say it's very positive, which also Lilletun was in, that the World Bank is changing something from the old Washington Consensus. I think we're going to be so close to Norway that we realize that it's not because of the Hilde Frafjord Johnson or the Soria Moria statement, but simply because what was in Washington Consensus has proved useless. It didn't lead to what was thought to happen, and so it's kind of discarded internationally. That's the main reason for the change, and that's positive. Let me just say in the end that: yes, we have to measure, we have to assess, we have to relate to the very best competence – after very clear signals within the department as well. Norway shall at all times be associated with the best international assessment of the situation in the area of assistance. When there's a new video that's driving the debate in the future, we're going to be there. We're going to get them to Norway, and we're going to be constantly intellectually on the alert with the very best thing going on internationally, in order to measure and evaluate, as Vallersnes was about. I look forward to a good cooperation with the Right on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e935	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e938	The new budget is marked by the fact that we have a new political majority in Norwegian policy, a majority that is committed to well-being, justice and community, not only here at home, but also beyond the borders of Norway. The fight against poverty and the fight for development, democracy and human rights is our biggest global challenge and an important task for the new government. That is precisely why we need to strengthen Norway's efforts to combat poverty, a fairer distribution and a more democratic world order. We must work for a stronger UN, and we must strengthen Norway's peace efforts. We're going to work harder for a United Nations-led world order on the basis of international law, and we're going to have to lead in eradicating the debt of the poorest part of the world. We will increase the contributions to the UN Emergency Aid Fund and have a strong commitment to the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. These are part of the policy of the new government, and they bear not least the new budget. Globalisation opens huge opportunities for many, but it also creates more insecurity and injustice for others. We see globalisation in information, economics and science, but unfortunately, lack of political governance is a major and crucial problem. We see that globalisation is still giving the nation state less importance and space for action, and that power is being shifted from elected democratic forums to multinational companies operating globally. Our challenges cannot be solved by political decisions in individual countries alone. The main challenges we face, such as poverty, environmental problems and the AIDS epidemic, have no borders. The solutions cannot do that either. With such a globalized world, we need stronger international organisations that can mitigate the negative effects. We need a stronger global democracy, and it is the UN that must have the leading role in global democracy, because the UN is the most important tool we have in the fight for peace, security, sustainable development and the defence of human rights. Therefore, Norway must continue to be a strong driver to renew and strengthen the United Nations system, further develop it and make it more effective. This is necessary because the global challenges are completely different today than they were when the UN Pact was signed. And in order for the UN to be the best possible tool for combating poverty in the future and as a solution to conflict, the system must become more effective. Kofi Annan's report has important proposals for UN reform, including: in the field of security policy, in the social and economic sphere, and not least in relation to human rights. It will be an incredibly important task for the new government to play an active role in the further work on the reform process and to be an active driver and voice, so that the organisation gets the necessary legitimacy it needs, and becomes more effective and better able to meet the challenges ahead. It is about achieving the Millennium Goals, about dealing with the harsh and soft security threats. The UN needs stable and predictable revenues in order to operate with cohesion and to enable the organisation to achieve our greatest global goal – precisely that the Millennium Development Goals can be achieved. Therefore, it is important and necessary that a form of global taxation is now being developed that can provide the UN with stable contributions in the future. It is an important and proper priority that the new government is now strengthening the UN system in the budget and increasing Norway's financial contribution. In this way, we get a stronger and more active Norwegian response through the UN in areas that are of great importance to many developing countries, where the UN plays a very strong role. This is fully in line with the fact that in the Soria Moria Declaration, we reaffirm the importance of a stronger commitment to the UN system and international law. Our fundamental ideas about freedom, solidarity and equal opportunities do not stop at borders. That's why we're working for an international society characterized by these ideas, for peace and respect for human rights. Approaching such a global welfare society requires greater cohesion between the north and the south. Global cohesion requires that the rich part of the world take the greatest responsibility. Therefore, it is natural that Norway, as the world’s best country to live in, both in word and in action, should be an active, political, international driver in order to achieve this goal of a slightly more just world.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e965	We have today actually been told that the volume of the assistance is not the big problem. We're pretty much a few of them. Without it, this is still a major problem, not least what is happening in the OECD DAC. In part, there is a hollowing out of what assistance should be. A seeker to get the assistance to military purposes, and a seeker to change the rules for how to calculate the percentage of the measurements. So, here's what you're trying to do. You're trying to figure out what you're doing, not least, about the Millennium Goals. The new government must also follow closely the work of the DAC Committee, so that it does not exacerbate the assistance. The assistance we're giving today, we know we're being grotesque. It's just over 50 to 60 billion dollars, so this is a lot of cash – but of course this has to be increased. But I think we in Norway are basically where we're going to be in that debate. Many have come forward and said that aid needs to be improved. Upstairs in Pilestredet, at the University of Oslo, one can train for auxiliary work. So aid has become more and more a subject, more and more of course. Of course, the assistance will be good, and it will be better. That's where we're going a long way. I would like to mention a little story from the time Ålesund burned. Alexander Kielland has written about this, stating how he first and foremost got what is not unusual among assistant workers, a kick. «I have never enjoyed myself as a civil servant» – he indicated that he would rent the help work in Ålesund. Then he said, "Never has there been so much goods and the rot in the cellars of Ålesund." This is nothing new. It's happened in Norway, and it's happening around the world today as well. So to the World Bank and the UN, which have been mentioned earlier: if we look at the debt situation in the world, the biggest threat to the IMF and the World Bank is that their power base is confused. It can only be confused in one way, by having a system that is real to the enormously burdensome debt of the poor countries. The day we get a solution to that problem, the IMF and the World Bank are out of control, because then their power base is gone. If that's going to happen, it's not good to say today. We know that the IMF has had a historical significance, not least in Southeast Asia. They partly play an important role in Latin American countries. The World Bank is providing projects that the UN could as well give, with the same staff, etc., so it is not necessary to keep Bretton Woods institutions up. At least they have to be more competent, and we're not going to be afraid if the actual basis of power they're going to be completely gone. The conclusion of what has been said today, in my opinion, goes a lot on that we have to achieve results, and I think perhaps the most important area is trade. I was so lucky that one month ago I was allowed to be with HSH, the main organisation of the trade and service industries. They have a director, a person who represents himself in what they call the Development Trade Forum. They're busy with results. They opened in Molde, together with Ica Norway, Norway and Coop Norway – they have opened in many other cities as well – a direct line between us as customers and the poor farmer in South America, in Asia and Africa. They've done what we politicians so far haven't done: get to a direct line, get to direct trade. We've done it partially with the MUL. We know that the MUL works very closely. We know that much more needs to be done here, because we know that it's not just to produce a commodity in the rock and expect it to be sold on Karl Johan. It's not that simple. In a way, there is a Pontius Pilate system when we say that we have opened up, free customs and be so good, without following up and using the professional inside assistance – help countries with how to get here and be a real actor in a regular Norwegian store. The reason why this happened, of course, was that the Moor Bishop, the Church and the practical trade organizations joined forces, they combined an idea, they had enough spirit to carry him out, and they're big enough. So that actually applies to everyone. Up to 75 pst. of what is going on today's grocery trade has a chance to meet the African, Latin American and Asian peasants. We politicians must be equally good at finding good ways to let poor farmers go to our markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e984	Norway is a small country in the world, it is right to say so. We depend on the world around us. International cooperation is essential to safeguard Norwegian interests and values on which we believe the international community should build. I would like to repeat here, as both representatives of the position and opposition have done, that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are stuck with the red-green government. However, the continuation of the main lines does not mean passivity – on the contrary. Some views on the relationship with our closest neighbours and European cooperation: we need an offensive European policy to safeguard our specific Norwegian interests, and because we know that decisions in the EU system have implications for Norway and the everyday lives of individuals. Norway is a member of the internal market and the four freedoms in the EU through the EEA Agreement. Norway has benefited from the development of common rules and standards for its activities in the European market. It is still established that the EEA Agreement is working well. At the same time, it requires more and more from outside the EU to influence and promote national views in the preparation of issues. There are areas of EU cooperation that are developing dynamically outside the EEA Agreement, where Norway should participate or influence, for example: the northern dimension. The Labour Party is therefore very pleased that the Government will review the overall Norwegian effort in the EEA, which may increase the potential for influence. Stronger mechanisms for overall coordination and organisation are needed to ensure that Norwegian interests can be effectively and early enough to influence EU decisions of relevance to Norway, whether through the EEA Agreement or otherwise. It is not enough to settle for Norway to be represented in hundreds of committees. I am also pleased that the Government will provide for an open debate on EEA and EU matters and involve the Storting to a greater extent. I believe Stortinget himself should also consider his handling of these matters. We usually talk about the EU and the EEA in relation to Europe. However, Europe is made up of individual nations with their interests and views, and Norway must of course have good cooperation and relations with them. We have a special relationship with our Nordic friends in the EU through the Nordic Council. Close dialogue on European cooperation issues with our Nordic neighbours is desirable and natural. The development of common rules raises difficult issues, such as: the current discussion on the Services Directive. The EEA Agreement contains reservation rights against rules that would threaten particularly important Norwegian interests. We're not going to write that down. However, my position is that, together with others, we should influence matters until the end, and then the final result to be assessed is not phases in the process. Norway will contribute significant amounts to the new EU countries in order to promote social and economic development. The working party is concerned that the participation of Norwegian operators in this work must be actively facilitated by the Norwegian authorities. Business, social partners and non-governmental organisations, among others, must be able to make use of opportunities under the financial instruments to develop bilateral cooperation in different areas. In this context, I also believe it is positive for the Government to set up a new grant scheme to ensure the possibility of European policy dialogue for employment organisations. The trade union movement is an important partner in order to ensure a development in Europe that respects the social dimension. We want an active European policy, not just at the political level, but in organisational and social life in general and with participation from different points of view. To stimulate an active and wide-ranging debate on Europe, we will therefore increase support for information on European cooperation. The red-green and government policy during this period is based on Norway not being a member of the EU. In my opinion, Norwegian interests would be best served with membership. But membership is neither realistic nor topical today. We do not even know what the countries of the European Union will agree on for further cooperation after the period of thought they have agreed to is over. Should we deal with a Constitutional Treaty, or will there be separate pieces of the Treaty being implemented, such as the Treaty? greater involvement of national parliaments in the decision-making process? These must be areas in which Norway must also have an interest in developing and, if possible, adapted to our position. In the further discussion on the future model of society in the EU countries, Norway should also be able to make a significant contribution to our commitment to the Nordic welfare model. There are therefore major issues related to the development of the EU and our relationship through the EEA Agreement in which Norway should actively participate without having to be related to membership. The Soria Moria declaration can provide the basis for an active European debate without the participants going into the trenches on the yes and no side. That's hoping.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1018	Through the UN Millennium Goals, the Government has committed itself to combating poverty. Several of the UN’s Millennium Goals involve measures to improve reproductive health. Women in developing countries play a key role in both economic and social development. When poverty, sickness and death affect women, the consequences are great. When it comes to infant mortality and maternal mortality, it looks dark compared to the thousand-year-olds. The fact that we and the rest of the world are focusing on the HIV/AIDS epidemic is absolutely crucial. 25 million people south of Sahara live with HIV/AIDS, and women are most vulnerable. Increased appropriations to combat HIV/AIDS are absolutely necessary. The same is true of our participation in the babysitting programmes. However, the strong focus on HIV/AIDS must not be at the expense of other and equally necessary measures related to reproductive health. Mother mortality related to pregnancy, abortion and births affects more than half a million women every year, and 99 pst. of which we find in the developing countries. In sub-Saharan countries, the risk of maternal death is 1 out of every 16 births. The risk of disability and chronic distress caused by birth complications is many times higher – 40 to 60 times higher. This is a result of many women giving birth without qualified help. In Africa, more than 2 million women live with fistula as a result of birth complications, 2 million women more or less disabled and socially excluded as a result of not being able to control urine or faeces. This is a suffering with which it is fully possible to do something, but there are only two hospitals in Africa, one in Ethiopia and one in Uganda, that offer necessary surgery. The HIV/AIDS epidemic kills many children, but still infant mortality is enormous. 2.7 million are stillborn, and 3 million die in the first week of life. The causes are largely determined by conditions around pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth. Women are also exposed to abortions in an unqualified manner. ==References== 68 000 women per month. years die that way. When one sees this in the context of the fact that more than 200 million women and couples in developing countries have an unmet need for contraceptives, one sees that active family planning policies are still needed. That is why the setback we are now experiencing is frightening. It is stated by the United Nations and other organisations working for sexual and family planning that previous US appropriations for such purposes have now ceased or have been substantially reduced and associated with clear political leadership against abortion and prevention restrictions. It is therefore important that Norway and other countries not only maintain but increase their allocations to measures that can improve reproductive health. It is important that this should be prioritised when the strategy for women’s and gender-based development is to be revised. In this respect, we should seriously consider dedicating a certain proportion of our resources to work to improve reproductive health, such as in particular. The Netherlands has done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1031	Foreign policy must have many channels for dialogue and interaction. When we address people in other countries or cultures, we need to use more angles of incidence to tell them who we are. We need to develop a receiver that allows us to understand others. That can help us with our art and culture. At the cultural arenas we can meet people at ‘face height’. We can exceed the barriers that different languages or different social levels often set for real communication. The global cultural arena is now more accessible to us than ever before because there are so many common cultural flows, but at the same time because the strange, local and local often turns out to be international. We've got what cultural sociologists call globalization in cultural life, that is. We've got cultural expressions where the local and the global arenas are mutually fertilising each other, both at national and international arenas. This means that the diversity of our cultural life consists of, both what leans on the larger international trends, and what we can call the peculiar Norwegian, for example. Our traditional culture, can find hearing in the international arenas. In other words, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' various cultural efforts are a very important part of the communication strategy that we as a nation must have, and we must constantly seek to find the best and most appropriate way of dealing with it. In particular, cooperation with other departments, for example: The Ministry of Culture and the artistic environments will be as good as possible. It was a pleasure to hear today that Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre emphasizes the very importance of having such a dialogue. It is also important to understand the non-instrumental value of art and culture. In other words, when we think that Norwegian artists have a quality that makes it quite natural that they are on the international scene, it's because what they bring, what they have on their hearts, abilities to touch and move people, without the message of nationality or other belongings becoming the most important thing. We have artists in the past and present who deserve a place on the global scene. Next year, we're going to mark the 100th anniversary of a national icon. We're going to go into the world together with Henrik Ibsen and maybe try to understand why this writer still today is able to spin a magic web around people around the world, not least through his marked and distinct female customs. The government has underlined the importance of a strong people for people-cooperation in the north. It is a cooperation based on the interrelationship of several generations and cross-border trade, and which has created links between the peoples of the North Callot which neither hot nor cold war has the power to tear apart. The confidence created here is an essential basis for the dialogue to be conducted both within and outside the negotiating spaces of the coming years, and in this context cultural cooperation in the north is indispensable. Here cultural arenas have been created in many different forms of art, where the actors have taken the aim of artistic exploration of what the world looks like and lives live by and across the border. Therefore, it was gratifying to read an interview in the evening post for a while back with Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, where he in an insightful way emphasizes the importance of cultural cooperation in the north, which he has repeated here today. Therefore, it was also gratifying and important that this government got another 20 million. kr of the cut made by the outgoing Bondevik government in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ budget, and that 5 million. kr of this shall be earmarked for cultural and information work in the north. It assures me that this government also wants to include culture when it stresses the importance of a comprehensive and cross-sectoral policy, not least in the political work in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1049	The representative Berit Brørby has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, and she has a birthday today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1052	Thank you, President. I would like to refer to the majority comment where the Foreign Affairs Committee points out the importance of contact with Russia, and could mention the fact that, at Nordic level, we are working actively and actively to strengthen and further develop contacts with Russia, both at parliamentary level and on the government side, through the recently submitted Russian programme by the Nordic Council of Ministers. This programme also concluded the Nordic Parliamentary Assembly earlier this autumn. At the end of June, the Stortinget and the Nordic Council held the 2nd Parliamentary Conference of the Barents area, with good participation from the Russian regional parliament and from the State Duma and the Federation Council. Both the form and content of stronger parliamentary cooperation in the Barents region were discussed. On 26 January 2006, we will have a follow-up meeting in Oslo in order to reach an agreement on how to organise parliamentary cooperation in the future, and on what matters might be appropriate to be put on the agenda. The Nordic Council's contacts with Russian parliamentary actors have so far been mainly through participation in each other's meetings and conferences. And you're going to have to keep doing that. The Council grant programme for Russian parliamentarians will be further developed by drawing up the programmes more closely with the Russians. It is also important that continuous parliamentary support, follow-up and evaluation of the activities of the Council of Ministers in Russia are carried out. In this context, it may be possible to give Russian parliamentarians greater opportunities than they have so far to participate in a dialogue with the Nordic Council on evaluation and consultation of the activities of the Council of Ministers in Russia. I mention this because the Norwegian government in 2006 has the chairmanship of the Nordic Council of Ministers and has emphasised cooperation in the Nordic regions in its Presidency programme. It is important that the Government contributes to a good anchoring of the cooperation actions against North-West Russia through an active dialogue with Russian authorities. We have many cooperation bodies in northern Europe, both on the government side and on the parliamentary side. Both sides need to promote cooperation and better coordination between the various cooperation bodies in their efforts to achieve common objectives. This is a challenge, but we have to take this. The Nordic countries are at the heart of the many and closely related actors in the northern regions. The Nordic region thus has a key role and an opportunity to shape and strengthen these fields of cooperation with the other actors. We have to get away with double work and we have to get a voice that's heard and that's clear. It's necessary. The government, which is leading the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2006, must exploit the potential of three of the Nordic countries in 2006 to share the leadership of all three regional councils, the Barents Council, the Arctic Council and the Baltic Council, as well as the EU, for the whole or part of the year. Here we have the chance to contribute to a united and strengthened focus on the North and to further develop a good neighbourhood with Russia and cooperation with Russian parliamentarians and executives on the many common interests and challenges we have in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1065	With new growth and new government and over-objectives a precursor to debate on tax rates on Svalbard and a desire for increased focus on the north, I find as the responsible state council of the department coordinating Svalbard policy, reason to say something about Svalbard and our policy. The overall objectives of Norwegian Svalbard policy have been long-standing and have had broad political outreach. They're still stuck. These overall objectives are, above all, a consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and control of compliance with the Treaty, the preservation of peace and stability in the area, the conservation of the area’s unique wilderness nature and the maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island group. In the Storing Communication which discussed these issues, St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000, a broad review of developments in the various social domains was carried out and the objectives and priorities and instruments that the Government intends to pursue for the further development of the island group. For the Ministry of Justice as the coordinating department of Svalbard policy, it is important that the development of Svalbard be seen together and that the objectives of Norwegian Svalbard policy form the basis for the political decisions taken. The appropriations entered in the budget do so, among other things. to have an effective apparatus and administration on Svalbard in order to be able to deal continuously with the emerging issues and to maintain Norwegian presence on the island group. The Svalbard Treaty imposes restrictions on access to the collection of taxes and charges on Svalbard and on the use of these funds. This is the background to the creation of a separate svalbard budget, promoted by the Ministry of Justice at the same time as the State budget. The svalbard budget consists of two main parts. Part I gives an overview of the measures which the Government will promote under the budget chapters of the various departments. This gives the Storting an annual review of government appropriations for Svalbard purposes. For 2006, a net allocation of approx. 308 million. kr for Svalbard purposes of the State budget. Part II provides for a review of the proposals for appropriations advanced over the valbard budget. The appropriations relate mainly to the operation of the administration of Svalbard and Longyearbyen local government departments. The Svalbard budget for 2006 has a total framework of approx. 188 million. kr. The government does not change the proposal of the previous government on changes to the tax system on Svalbard, which is an adjustment to the tax reform. It is proposed to raise the tax rate from 8 pst. to 12 pst. Taxes on wages and salaries will subsequently amount to 19,8 p.m., including a national social security fee. According to the Government’s assessment, there should still be a moderate level of taxation of Svalbard’s wages and salaries. A working group has been set up to look at the Svalbard tax system as a whole. The working group shall, inter alia: look at the possibilities of providing a better social profile to the tax system. The government is also concerned that local authorities through Longyearbyen local government will be included in this work, so I also notice that an overall committee now requires. I will contribute to this. I have also noticed that the Foreign Affairs Committee is concerned that the impact of the adopted changes in the Svalbard tax system needs to be clarified. I see it as a natural part of the work that is now to be done by the working group. The energy supply in Longyearbyen is part of the tasks Longyearbyen local government has been responsible for transferring ownership of Svalbard Societies to the local government. Investments for upgrading and maintenance of the energy supply are needed. In this context, the government proposes to continue funding of 7.1 million. for the upgrading and maintenance of the electricity and district heating distribution network. The government sees this strength as a contribution to the upgrade and maintenance necessary for the energy supply in Longyearbyen. The government also proposes that a new backup power plant in Longyearbyen should be used. The Ministry, together with Longyearbyen, will develop different models for such user financing. Svalbard Research Park is finished this autumn, with official opening in the spring of 2006. The creation of a research park at Svalbard has been a cooperation project involving several departments and other public bodies. The Research Park will gather all the academic environments in Longyearbyen. Co-location of an academic environment will create professional synergies and facilitate better for the public and the local population. In addition, the establishment of a cultural-historical magazine at the Svalbard Museum will allow cultural history to be disseminated at Svalbard, both for residents and visitors. The research park will therefore have a lot to say for both the community in Longyearbyen and for Svalbard. Finally, I am pleased to note that Svalbard is confirming its position as the leader of national and international research activities in the Arctic. The new marine biological research laboratory in New Zealand, which will be opened on 1 June 2006, and the interest in this laboratory, the increase in the number of study places at the University of Svalbard, together with the opening of the new research park, will help to underline this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1088	I would like to comment on Britt Hildeng's articles, which I think was a very important article. Some Valle and others have faced similar problems in the past: what is so very fine is called women's reproductive health, where there is also a connection with the AIDS epidemic. AIDS is, after all, increasingly becoming a woman’s disease internationally, as most people have had it after World AIDS Day. Norway shall be at the top of this area. There is one reason why Sigrun Møgedal has been appointed as Norway’s AIDS ambassador, in order to get a focus point and a face to Norway’s efforts. We're going to be at the top in two ways. We're going to be at the top of the line, so we're going to secure appropriations, we're going to secure an international system that works, and we're going to back up on UN organisations. In short, we need to do everything we can to get an effective prevention system and an effective health system internationally. But we're also going to be at the top of politics, and in this area, there's probably some nuances compared to the previous government. Let me mention three areas where Norway needs to take a leading role, because these are key issues in the fight against AIDS. One area is the question of prevention. Some countries, including those close to Norway, talk like abstinence is the determining factor in preventing the spread of AIDS. Abstinence is well and good. That's an individual question. But based on the general knowledge of human nature – and then each of us can walk in ourselves – it is very unlikely that it will work. I want to go so far as to say that it's a very, very dangerous line to talk about abstinence as a remedy for AIDS, because it won't work. Then we're going to spread AIDS to ever-new people all over the world. We have to remember that AIDS can end up as a major disaster for humanity measured in lost lives than World War II. Prevention is what will work, and Norway will call for international action. The second area where there is also a link is the issue of decriminalising abortion. Norway has decriminalised abortion, but we will also call for decriminalisation of abortion internationally. Although it is not a question of women, we will also raise the issue of transparency and tolerance around homophilis, even in countries where this is new and unknown, at least in the political debate, is also central. If homophilis cannot be spoken of, it is also almost impossible to reach out with the information and knowledge that is needed to prevent homophilic life as the spread of AIDS. In all these areas, prevention, decriminalisation of abortion and openness about homophilis, this government will have – I think to say – a clearer role than the previous government, and you'll see a nuance difference. I believe it has the approval of the Storting. I would like to use the opportunity now to thank you for what is a later issue on the agenda, namely that the Stortinget unanimously approves a further 260 million. kr to the earthquake disaster in Pakistan. It's The Storting at best, and I'm very happy that it happens with the support of all parties, so that it doesn't become a Norwegian dispute. The disaster in Pakistan is there. No one knows the exact number, but maybe in the order of 70,000 people are already dead. It is necessary to prevent new people from dying during the winter as a result of cold, spreading diseases, and otherwise. We have chosen to give this amount into the UN because the UN appeal for Pakistan is underfunded, and because the UN can use this money as quickly as possible. And then we're going to admit that Norway plays a slightly different role here than some other countries. Some other countries have made greater promises of long-term reconstruction aid to Pakistan, but Norway has taken the role of ensuring that the immediate crisis situation is managed in such a way that the objective that all those who survived the earthquake also survives the bitterly cold winter in Kashmir and the North-West Frontier Province in Pakistan is achieved. So I just want to thank the Grandfather for this. We are going to do what we can to ensure that the money is used as quickly as possible, and as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1118	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1134	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1142	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e1150	During the debate, Finn Martin Vallersnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e4716	The President will underline what has been said by the Chair of Øyvind Vaksdal, that the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e4719	President! I have voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e4726	Then we take the vote again. So the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e4741	President! I think a mistake was made, so I did not get a vote. I'm not drawn into that plural there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e4748	The President is liberal – it's approaching Christmas. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e4764	During the debate, Finn Martin Vallersnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘IP the 2006 swallow-barbed budget is raised below: Chapter.PostObjective:CronesCronesExpenditure1Svalbard church1Operating expenditure 3 250 0002Proposal for cultural purposes etc.70Proposal for welfare work on Svalbard 960,0003Proposal for Longyearbyen local government70Proposal for Longyearbyen local government 60 923 0005Employer [[(see section 4.4). cap. 20)]] IIForm and income taxes to Svalbard§ 1 Scope of application of the Decision This Decision applies to the forward-looking and final distribution of taxes on wealth and income for the 2006 income year, according to the provisions of the Law of 29 November 1996 No. 68 on taxes to Svalbard.Taxable persons within the meaning of the Tax Payments Act § 1, cf. § 2 and the first paragraph of § 5-1 of the Svalbard Tax Act, shall pay advances on property and income taxes to Svalbard for the 2006 income year. For the purposes of the calculation and payment of debts, the characters of this Decision and of the Tax Payments Act are set out.§ 2 Taxes on wealthTax on wealth are calculated at the following rates: a) Person liable for tax and death: 0,0 pst. of the first NOK 190 000 of the written assets 0,9 pst. of the excess.(b) Companies and associations referred to in the tax laws §2-36 other l edd and which are not exempt from the obligation to pay taxes under the tax laws Chapter 2: 0,0 pst. of the first NOK 10000 of mapped assets 0,3 pst. of excess amounts. § 3 Taxes on incomeTaxes on income are calculated at the following rates: (a) Income taxed on an equation according to the Salvage Tax Act § 3-1: 10 pst. of general income Personal taxpayers shall have a deduction from general income of NOK 10 000(b) Income taxed on payroll items after svalbard tax of § 3-2: 12 pst. § 4 Rounding rulesFor the calculation of the tax by equation, imputed wealth shall be rounded down to the nearest whole of NOK 1 000, and income rounded down to the nearest whole of NOK 100. For the calculation of the tax on salaries, the income shall be rounded down to the nearest full crown.§ 5 The interest rate for determining the calculated personal income of self-employed personsScaling interest as referred to in the third paragraph of the Tax Act, see Section 12-12. Svalbardskattelova § 3-1, shall be the same as the Stortinget has agreed to apply to the Norwegian mainland.§ 6 Normal interest rate for reasonable loans in employmentNormal interest rate as referred to in the fourth paragraph of the Tax Act, § 5-12, cf. Svalbardskattelova §§3-1 and 3-2, shall be the same as the Stortinget has agreed to apply in mainland Norway.IIIOrdering authorisationThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Justice can order goods in 2006 for up to NOK 3 000 000 in addition to the total pledges given under cap. 5 item 1 in the svalbard budget.IVMore revenue powersThe majority of the budget agrees that the Ministry of Justice may exceed the commitments in 2006 under: 1st cap. 5 item 1 corresponding to the amount receivable under Chapter 1. 3005 heading No 2.2. cap. 6 item 1 corresponding to the amount receivable under Chapter 1. Heading 3006 2. Depreciation of coal carried out by SvalbardFor the 2006 budget mine, a charge shall be payable to the State Treasury of coal carried out by Svalbard, at the following rates:1,0 pst. of the value of the first 100000 tonnes,0,9 pst. of the value of the next 200000 tonnes,0,8 pst. of the value of the next 300000 tonnes,0,7 pst. of the value of the next 400000 tonnes,0,6 pst. of the value of the next 500000 tonnes,0,5 pst. of the value of the next 600000 tonnes,0,4 pst. of the value of the next 700000 tonnes,0,3 pst. of the value of the next 800000 tonnes,0,2 pst. of the value of the next 900000 tonnes,0,1 pst. of the value of the next 1000000 tonnes. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-05.ana.ud1542e6202	Here the Progress Party wants to vote against.
