ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e51	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Ivar Kristiansen, who is given the floor instead of the rapporteur on the matter, who is a member of the Laging House.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e64	Honourable to the one who should be honoured, and that is the original author of the case, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be present during today's debate. This is a rather special matter, which is essentially about Statkraft. In reality, it is about state enterprises and who is to be given the opportunity to determine the dividend rates of such companies at any time records and records as profits. I am a little surprised by the way this case has been handled, and that it ends up in a Document No. 8 proposals in the way that this does. I am not sure that the proposers can in any way be said to serve the company's interest, because they are actually creating a debate on whether the Norwegian increase is bad with Statkraft. That's the one. The second is that one would like to say that both the opposition and the position have been involved in adopting policy on the level of dividends in state enterprises. However, this Decision was proposed to be repealed in the context of St.prp. No 1 for 2004-2005. In other words, the previous decision on 50 pst. dividends have been cancelled. But it must, and in my opinion, be such – and I thought it was actually some kind of old social-democratic idea – that the Stortinge should always have the opportunity to assess how the community's resources are to be used. I just see that the Workers' Party in a company with the Advance Party and with the Center Party on a draw wants to weaken this opportunity, while performing the art piece to present outside a picture that the Stortinget systematically wants to weaken State Power. One wants to equip State power with some giant state muscles to be involved and compete abroad – compete abroad unclearly under which vignette, under which business idea, in which sector and in what area, whether red or green energy is to be taken into account. The mantra seems to be: Let's equip this company with enormously large state muscles. In fact, the Stortinget has been very good at adding capital to the company. If an attempt is made to present the behaviour of the Great and the Governments as subliminal in relation to State Power, I don't think you've taken the trouble to see in the books and in the balance sheet of Statkraft and the accounts of State Power to see what the picture really is. Total capital in Statkraft has almost doubled over a period of four to five years. Over the period 1999–2003, equity has increased from DKK 21.5 to 35 billion, and it is this forum – the Norwegian big business – that has been primarily involved and laid the foundation for the development of State power as State power has done. Concepts such as ‘moderate’, ‘wing-stretch’, etc. for other companies — any other company in Norway — must appear as a strange postulate. For there is hardly any company in Norway that has shown such concern as Statekraft. I think, as the situation is today, that it would be the right principle that the Storing should have the opportunity to determine dividends in a state-owned enterprise such as State Power. Let me also add that, despite what will come in post after the signature, the next speakers should not completely forget that after all, State Power for 2004 will retain DKK 1 billion of its own profits. Decisions of 2003 gave Statkraft NOK 4 billion in new equity. In one year, therefore, Statkraft has increased its equity by more than DKK 5 billion, in addition to the company being able to release and have been released capital through the sale of assets. It also seems to be a paradox for me, and it should be for others, too, that at times when the media writes about the competitive situation in the market – in fact, recent events have been on the food sector – competition is very much involved. You want to participate in the competition. It was forgotten when Stortinget dealt with the Competition Act less than a year ago. The opposition parties, by way of derogation from the Advance Party, forgot to contribute to the strengthening of the Financial Supervision of Competition. But it is presented as if Statkraft should be allowed to be an exception. I am not sure that Norwegian electricity subscribers have the same involvement in this regard. I think we should take it seriously when the Competition Authority has also imposed a requirement that State power should reduce its strength in Norway, precisely in the interests of customers, to users, to the residents of Norway, so that we can have a certain lack of competition for the sake of subscribers. I also believe that the results that Statkraft has been allowed to deliver show that it is probably not entirely shy to get paid for its services. Paragraph 20-4 of the Share Act clearly states that neither the Government nor the majority parties at Stortinget commit any crime. Paragraph 20-4 of the Share Act clearly states that the owner determines dividends in state enterprises. I just remind you that State power has actually been allocated a total of 17 billion kroner in new equity from 1996 to 2003 from the Stortinget. So finally, for the fourth year, the government has entered into a budgetary settlement. Three of the budgetary agreements have been concluded with the Progress Party, and in the fourth year, for the 2004 budget, a budgetary agreement was concluded with the Labour Party. It could be tempting to say that you were on the road yourself and broke the prerequisites – then I think of the Labour Party and the Advance Party. You went far beyond the 50 pst you're proposing today. I think they were closer to reality and were closer to what I thought was a noble principle. In this context, the situation was put in the centre and the way the Community's resources should and can be used. Today you're not in a situation where you have to think so much about where to cut. Where in the budget are you going to cut if you're in a situation where you have to cut down by $1.4 billion? At the end of the day, I would just like to commend the SV for their presence and for providing a majority in this matter. We have a very good agreement with SV, which helps us to gradually take a power cap – finally – in Mo i Rana to get rid of 50 pst. of the country's mercury emissions. Finally, I would like to ask the proposers, perhaps in the debate, to look into whether they are very satisfied with Statkraft's job towards the Norwegian process industry. There is not so much to suggest that the industry itself, which is sitting and negotiating, whether it is in the north, west or south, is so pleased with the efforts that this company is making today. I'm dealing with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e90	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e93	The Norwegian Storing «steller bad med» Statkraft, said the representative Kristiansen. However, the reason for this Document No. The 8-proposal we are now considering is that it is the Government that has misplaced State Power, and it is the Government that has taken a profit and failed decision in the Storting there, among other things. The parties were co-sponsored by the government. Dividend policy has been discussed repeatedly in Stortinget, and from several government councils we have been admitted that they really think that it has taken too much profit, and that one should wish for a lower yield. That is what we in the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party are trying to do today. Kristiansen drew a positive picture of Statkraft, and I agree with that. But internationally, the company has, among other things, a capital rating of BBB+. This shows that it is not as good as you want. My question is, is the picture as positive as what Kristiansen is drawing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e100	I think all the numbers show that it's almost not a single company in Norway that has shown such economic concern on the part of Stortinget as exactly Statkraft. Had it been possible to measure political concern as a percentage, it could actually have been done on this issue. I just record that when the government signed a budget agreement for 2004 with the Workers' Party, they did not end up with today's figure, 78 pst., but with a total of 95 pst. Dividends, even with the Working Party as a driving force, kept the percentage 95, but you were able to increase the yield by a total of 535 million. kr more. So if you were to use politically measurable percentages, the working party would have 45 pst. less concern for Statkraft than that contained in today's Document No. Eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e105	The representative of Kristiansen may be right in saying this is a special case. The government's view is not supported by anyone outside this house, either by international analysts – the government's dividend policy according to the approach of entry leads to a lower credit rating than necessary – state power itself, because the government does not follow up the adopted strategy that the government also agreed to, or the business community, where business operators stand up and say that this is the power company that is the worst treated by its owners. So it's unisonly outside the government parties and SV that this is not a lucky policy. To sum up, the proposal will not have a majority today, and that still means uncertain framework conditions and policies that stand out in relation to all other energy companies in Europe. The government does not follow its own principles of good ownership. I would like to ask the representative of Kristiansen why he supports a dividend policy that stands out with regard to all other energy companies in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e112	I think that when you discuss dividend policy, in a debate like this, it'll always be a good idea to take along the other curves as well. It is correct, as the representative Hedstrøm pointed out, that compared to some European companies, the dividend rate will be higher. But on the other hand, few companies are comparable to Statkraft in terms of the ability and willingness of governments to add new equity. The figures show that the Storting has been very good at adding State power to new equity, and there are few companies that can compete in this in growth in terms of total capital and equity, such as Statkraft. Otherwise, I think it is a relatively modest documentation the representative Hedstrøm has when he says that everyone is dissatisfied. I believe that the representative Hedstrøm will also take a look at the Competition Authority's report on the dominance of Statkraft, in the interests of Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e119	Ivar Kristiansen argues, both in his position and now in his post, that there is a need to use dividend policies to balance the state budget and the problems that result from cutting, for example: DKr 1.4 billion in the State budget. As Ivar Kristiansen said, it can be difficult enough. Of course, I agree with the representative. This problem may well arise from time to time for any owner of a private company. However, I want more to have a purely principled discussion about the relationship between board and general meeting in what is a commercial company, because we have chosen to organise all the state companies as commercial companies. Paragraph 8-2 of the Share Act states the following with regard to dividend decisions: «The decision on the distribution of dividends shall be taken by the general meeting after proposals for distribution or other use of profits have been submitted by the Management Board. No higher dividends can be decided than the Board of Directors has proposed or accepted.’ – This is precisely because the Board of Directors has commercial responsibility. What is the principal difference between a company owned by the state and a private company?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e131	The question of what is the principle difference, could take many interesting turns. It is obvious that you can choose the starting point that the representative of Enoxen has, but then you choose quite gallantly to ignore the fact that the general interest of the community is disregarded. One chooses to ignore the requirements that are, of course, healthy for the company, sound for Statkraft, that one should also measure the possibility of taking the same thing out of return in relation to the risk of a state-owned corporation, a state-owned limited liability company, which is to be done, within a private company. The fact is, regardless of this, that the Norwegian authorities have favoured Statkraft. State power has probably been given more political attention than any other Norwegian company.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e138	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e142	During this period, the size has had many rounds of state power. It started with St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002, the ownership message, where the Government, among others, said the following about Statkraft: ‘The government wants to facilitate a good strategic development for Statkraft SF, while maintaining a clear Norwegian anchoring in the company to ensure and develop, inter alia, the environment of competence.’ Then, in the spring of 2004, we got a separate case to deal with in the Stortinget about the state's ownership of Statkraft, and in St.prp. No 53 for 2003-2004, State ownership of Statkraft SF, the Government said the following: ‘The Government considers that Statekraft, the second largest hydropower producer in Europe, should focus on its core competence in the further development of the company. State power shall be a commercial undertaking which competes on equal terms with other power producers. The Government is underpinning the country’s ownership strategy that State power is to concentrate on operating profitable production and trading of renewable energy, but with the possibility of operating naturally related activities.’;» The case was finalised in June 2004. In the course of treatment, Dividend policy was a hot topic, and it ended with the presentation by the government parties and the Progress Party of the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the ordinary rules of the Share Act on the determination of dividends from Statkraft SF.’ This includes, inter alia: that it is the board of directors of the company to determine dividends, based on an analysis of the company’s situation and future possibilities. Sv promoted in the same debate the following proposals: ‘As a general rule, the Government is asked to ensure that the average yield from State Power is 50 pst. within a frame of 5 years.’» We in the Workers' Party, as well as the Center Party, added the setting to Ot.prp. No 63 for 2003-2004 a proposal to amend Section 17 of the State Entrepreneurship Act and Section 20-4 of the Share Act. 4th@item: inlistbox This would have led to dividends from Statkraft being governed by the ordinary rules of the Share Act. The signals from Stortinget could not have been clearer. All parties had somehow told the Government that it was now time to change the dividend policy towards Statkraft. Nearly four months later, the Government presented its draft budget for 2005, including: had the following wording: The Government proposes on this basis that ‘The decision of the Grand Duchy No. 465 for 2003-2004 laying down the normal rules of the Share Act in determining dividends from Statkraft SF is repealed’ – cf. Proposal for Decision XIII. As I have illustrated earlier in my article: The decision we adopted in June 2004 was the result of a long and thorough discussion in the nutrition committee and in the Stortinget. Nevertheless, the principle of a pen stroke disappears a few months later. All entrepreneurs in Norway and we politicians talk about the importance of being predictable, that we are pursuing a predictable industrial policy. But what does the government do around the next turn? They're twisting and making a fuss in the face of what the Storting has decided. Is it strange that we sometimes get big business? When we dealt with the ownership message, the main focus was also on predictability and a good state owner. What we see here from the Government is not good ownership. It is hopeless for those who are set to run a business daily, when predictability is then to the degrees away. How should a company be able to put in place a strategy and think about it in the long term when it is not itself responsible for the financial basis for its long-term operations? The Industry Committee visited Statkraft on 10 February of this year and the title of the meeting was ‘A Valuable State Power — Focus on Competitiveness and Business Opportunities’. We were presented to a State force with visions and plans for the future, where the key strings for 2005 and beyond were competitive advantages and business opportunities. The acquisition of regulatory and environmentally friendly capacity, the development of wind power and new renewable energy and the development of Norwegian ownership positions were sought. But the prerequisites for further value creation were that the company had: an appropriate organisationally sound power plant with the best regulatory competence in water disposal trading experience with good risk management strategic ownership positions; These were assumptions that they thought they already had and were well pleased with, but they lacked the following: predictability with regard to yield gas availability and competence in this area The last thing we're not going to discuss today, but it's the dividend policy that's now at the center. When we're out discussing business policy, we often say that we should bet on what we're good at, and what's natural resources here in the country. Power generation is one of those areas. We're good at that, and we have natural resources to do that. But are we betting where we can? No, we don't. State power shall compete on an equal footing with other power producers, says the Government. What about the other competitors? Vattenfall in Sweden paid a dividend of approx. 25 pst. in 2003, fortum in Finland yields of about 45 pst., E 2 in Denmark. 35 pst. and E.ON in Germany a dividend of slightly less than 30 p.p., whereas State power in Norway is thus paying a dividend of about 30 p.p. 95 pst. This is not to compete on equal terms! So state council fire says when he now listens to me: but then the majority of the Storing has brought State Power money. Yes, that's right, and that's a result of the powerful dividend policy. But then the right-hand side goes on to say, but the Workers' Party has also used Statkraft's profits as a balancing. Yeah, that's also true, if not as high as the other years. And it was the government of Stoltenberg who first made a proposal to regulate dividend policy. In my post I have spent time looking at previous treatments in Stortningen regarding Statkraft, this because that Document No. The 8 proposal we are discussing today is the result of the government evading and setting aside previous decisions. Although we have changed the Council of State in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade since we dealt with St.prp. No 53 for 2003-2004, the State’s ownership of Statkraft SF, comes from the same party, and they were also in the same government at that time, albeit in other ministerial posts. We should therefore be able to trust that they follow up the Storting decision. The reason for the many debates on state ownership in the Grand Duchy is quite obvious. There is a distinction between the governmental parties and the opposition in this area. It is not only a question of dividend policy but also of other aspects of state ownership. But what everyone should agree on is that the state owned companies should be good and strong companies and with an owner who is predictable and wants something with the company. For Statkraft’s part, which operates in the power market, a financial strength is important. The power market is marked by large price fluctuations, and the energy industry is very capital-intensive. The ability to pay debts will be essential for the development of the company. "Creditrating" is a word that goes back when this is discussed. Today, Statkraft's credit rating is not good enough, it's at level BBB, while the company's management has assumed a level of A. They consider that this is necessary to ensure a good future development of the company. A good credit rating is also important in order to have satisfactory access to the lending markets and competitive conditions for borrowing. It is a quality stamp that allows the conclusion of long-term contracts, and it provides a limited need for guarantees relating to power trading. There is a lot more one could have said in this case, but just briefly a little visit to SV, which again surprises us by going with the Right side of this case. SV, as in the treatment of St.prp. No 53 for 2003-2004 proposed that dividends should, as a general rule, be 50 p.m., now go together with the Right and Christian People's Party not only in the decision but also largely in the argumentation. It is not the first time we see that SV uses state companies in a horse trade with the government parties, but I have to say, without knowing the agreement, that it is surprising that they have again entered into an agreement in which they will obviously get something left in connection with the revised budget. They must have a great deal of confidence in the industrial policy of the sitting government, and it is sad to register.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e239	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e242	In fact, during a one-year period, Statkraft has increased its equity by a total of NOK 5 billion. It is not very clear in the statements of the representative, Mr Fossli. However, the Government made a budgetary settlement for the 2004 budget with the Workers' Party. Here was the proposal on the proceeds of State Power of 95 p.m. At the request of the Workers' Party, the dividend level from Statkraft was increased by a total of 535 million. kr. In the opinion of the representative, Mr Fossli, was the Labour Party's demand a good or a bad example of the concept of ownership policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e249	It is clear that when you had already gone as high as you had done on Statkraft's profits, it was a bad signal from the start. We could've wanted to reduce this already at the time. But we all know the situation of budgetary conciliation. This is, of course, one of the reasons why we are now promoting the proposals we are promoting – that we should have a predictability that State power has demanded every time we have worked with the budgets of the Stortinget. We have realized that what has been done in the past, has not been very clever, and therefore promotes a proposal, as we have now done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e254	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e257	Only eight months ago, the Board of Directors of State decided to set the dividend for the company. This was also supported by the government parties. During the debate on Statkraft on 14 June last year, Minister of Economic Affairs Ansgar Gabrielsen of the European Parliament: ‘I also note that today’s Storting will ask the Government to base the standard rules of the Share Act on the determination of dividends for State Power.’... ‘I will, as always, seek the best way to follow up the decisions of Stortinget.’ In the preliminary position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade for the current year, the Government proposes, three months after its adoption, to repeal the decision of the Stortingen to base the normal rules of the Share Act on determining dividends. This was Grethe Fossli inside, but it is important to stress it once again from another opposition politician. This clearly shows that you cannot trust the Government. Even a large-scale decision by a very broad majority is attempted to change before it is launched. This not only has to do with ethics and morality, but also means that those affected by this kind of winging can be difficult to put in a long-term strategy for development. This is about the country's largest clean energy energy company. State power is one of the most valuable companies we have in the country, and each Norwegian citizen has an estimated holding of NOK 20 000. The country that owns it has acted for many years in a way that has reduced the company’s ability to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget. We have consistently seen an unpredictable and short-term dividend policy where Statkraft has been deprived of its ability to achieve its potential for value creation. It is a value creation on the basis of which values the community has to distribute. This type of abuse makes it almost impossible to build up the impact that is necessary to raise itself in the northern European market, as imposed by a broad majority on the Stortinget. When a dividend rate of 78 is set, and over 90 in the previous three years, we are talking about nothing less than the passing on of the values of Statkraft and a policy that is far from all the competing countries in Europe, giving its companies significantly greater opportunities on the force side. The intention of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party with the proposal for a change to the State Enterprise Act is just to give Norway's leading company on clean energy a foundation in the law for safe and commercial operation. The State that owns must accept a level of dividends that the Board of Directors finds sound from the company's financial position and strategic ambitions. In the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party in the vote, it is emphasised that «high dividend requirements provide for capital discipline and strengthened ownership control by bringing larger investment projects before the owner». I would like to remind you that the state, as a significant owner of Norwegian business, has explained how it will exercise its ownership. The state has, among other things: in connection with St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002, A smaller and better state ownership, stated that it wishes to use generally accepted principles of good ownership in the exercise of its ownership, so that both the companies concerned and the country that has confidence in the market. This will contribute to predictability that is a prerequisite for confidence. Thus, ten principles of good ownership are designed based on how the State will act as owner and what the State expects of the companies. It follows from these principles that the State intends to meet the necessary management needs through its statutes and to exercise its ownership through its general meeting. Thus, the argument to Statkraft that with today's dividend policy the owner provides for capital discipline and strengthened ownership control by bringing larger investment projects before the owner is not in line with the division of labour which the State itself draws up between the board and the owner. As you know, under the ordinary rules of the Share Act, the Board of Directors is responsible for proposing dividends to the general meeting. It may not adopt a higher dividend than that proposed by the Management Board. For all limited liability companies, the owner is free to replace members of the board if the board no longer has the trust of the owner. The normal rules of the Share Act already ensure a high degree of control for the owner. Additional ownership control can be difficult to enforce without breaching both the normal rules of the Share Act on the relationship between owner and government and the country’s own principles of good ownership. The Government Parties and the members of the SV of the Committee stress in a statement that state-owned companies need active owners. Where, for various political reasons, it is not desirable to bring private owners into state-owned companies, this implies that the State should respect the possibility of determining dividends, that majority considers. I want to remind you that the Government of St.prp. No 53 for 2003-2004 on State ownership of State Kraft gave its support to the strategy developed by the State Kraft Board and its management. This is a strategy that reflects the fact that the company operates in an industry that continues to be characterised by restructuring both nationally and internationally. Once the country that owns has approved a strategy that includes both Norwegian consolidation and some growth, this means that State equity must reflect this. What we experience in practice is a short-term consideration of the income side of the state budget, which greatly reduces the room for action of the company. Thus, a very high level of dividends over time will reduce the development potential of State power and long-term value creation. There's no doubt about it. For Norway, this may mean that the country reduces the possibility of further developing an industry that has been a major driver in the development of the country, because further development requires activities at international level. The parallel of Norsk Hydro and Statoil can serve as an illustration. These companies need to be established in large markets, larger than Norwegian, to ensure future competence, development and performance. If these companies were to pay dividends in the upper quartile, as it says, an internationalisation would not be possible. In addition, Statkraft has plans to upgrade and expand its own power plants, investments in small power plants, wind power plants and new renewable energy sources both in Norway and internationally. In Norway, Statkraft is the leader and has considerable competence and project experience. State power is also investing in R & D in environmentally friendly energy technologies such as hydrogen and tidal. This type of investment requires a long time horizon in terms of returns and profitability. Therefore, this investment would be at risk of being reduced if one had an unforeseeable dividend policy. Owners’ policies can therefore be said to go in the wrong direction with regard to the environmental profile that the Government itself attaches so much importance to. For the Progress Party, it is therefore incomprehensible that the Right, as the dominant party in the Government, does not wish to follow up the promises to introduce the standard State Power Code of the Share Act. This violates not only previous decisions on accumulation but also the Government's conclusions in several public documents on good ownership. When it is argued that Statkraft can be relatively quickly invested in capital by the owner, that is not the case. All with knowledge of policy decision-making mechanisms in general and the state's management of State ownership in particular know that this is not correct. When the company has applied for new equity from the owner, the average has gone over 12 months before receiving an answer. It goes without saying that it is not possible to expect such a long application process related to each project. In the power industry, where there is a tearing development, it is especially important to be able to respond quickly to the business opportunities that arise. A potential long-term capital injection from the owner will be highly anti-competitive and would put State power on the sideline. It is also a great disappointment and incomprehensible that SV, who wants a strong state power and an average dividend of 50 pst., sells its ideological principles. SV has become a horse-trading party where a consistent industrial policy is subordinated to populist agreements with a Right-dominated Government. It's not the first time. The last principle was sold for 30 million. kr, and the victim was Statkraft, who now has to count on an unpredictability which no other company in the country has. The truth is that SV helps bring state ownership into trouble. The last compromise SV has reached with the government parties ensures the country's ability to continue to rip Statkraft every year. I don't think it's strange that LO refuses to support an SV as Minister of Industry in any red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e293	The Progress Party calls itself a liberal party and has historically always been skeptical to dominant market leaders. Last we've seen it through the desire of the Progress Party to separate TINE into two parts and reduce their market power. At the same time, therefore, the Progress Party will strengthen such a dominant player as Statkraft. In fact, state power is so large that the Competition Authority says they can't get much bigger in Norway. That means that in that case they have to buy themselves out, perhaps both in nuclear power stations and in coal-fired power stations, without the impression that it concerns the Progress Party very much. I would also like to remind you that the Progress Party in its own budgets, as well as in comparison with the Government Parties, has used the proceeds of State power. My question is then: why has the Progress Party supported the dividend policy that they are so terribly opposed to today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e300	It is right, as the representative Silja Ekeland Bjørkly said, that we are a liberalist party with common sense and for most people. A division of TINEs in order to achieve greater competition on the milk processing side is a sensible policy. It is also a sensible policy that Statkraft should be given business conditions. So, it's when you're in an investment phase that the board is given authority and can set a strategy. I remember last spring when Terje Vareberg, then chairman of the government in Statkraft, met in the committee. He told us what value creation opportunities Norway then later missed out on by having a dividend policy based on the approach of entry, which the Government and SV stand for. So concretely to the budget, the time is fast: we supported the government's budget subsidiaryly. We had our own primary proposal, which was voted down. In that proposal, we had a much lower yield for State Power than what was adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e307	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e311	I record that the representative Hedstrøm says that his party, the Advance Party, is the party for common sense. It probably means that we have to get a case to the Stortinget where we define reason. I think that might be necessary, so we know what it is. So to Statkraft and the matter we have been presented in Stortinget today. For SV, this is about one thing, it is about political governance over State power. SV believes it is important that we continue to have strong political control over the power sector in Norway, and Statkraft is the flagship in that context. Over 50 pst. of all our hydropower is combined in the company Statkraft. When we know that here we're not talking about any company – so we're talking about our hydropower resources, which for many years has been the foundation for building the welfare community – we just need not have political governance over such an important company. It's important economically, but it's also important in terms of how we manage a part of our nature. So you could say that Statkraft should get more money or less money. Yes, it depends on what Statkraft intends to spend the money for. It's also a political balance. SV could have thought of giving Statkraft more money to route with if they had made some choices that were right in relation to the environment. If Statkraft had been concerned specifically with investing in new renewable energy in relation to wind, bioenergy, wave power and a number of other new ways to get power on, we might have been positive that Statkraft could keep more of the surplus to do that job. But when we are told that their strategy for the future is to invest in polluting gas power plants and gas in Germany, we do not believe that it is natural that Statkraft should get money for it. We are strongly opposed to polluting gas power stations, because they are involved in destroying the environment. It helps to destroy the environment for future generations. Therefore, we do not believe that Statkraft will get money to spend on that kind of purpose. Nor do we think it is a good idea to engage heavily in gassing in Germany. The reason for this is that, in any case, State power will be small, and we believe that if you go heavily into a gas investment in Europe, you will eventually need industrial partners, mergers, partial privatization, etc. Therefore, SV has said that we do not want Statkraft to be allowed to determine its yield. There is no new policy from SV. That's what we've been saying all along. We have always had the view that State power should be governed politically. We've always meant that the dividends are to be decided by Stortinget. But then, during a treatment almost a year ago, we said that, as a general rule, we want to comply with the Share Act, that it should be based. Yes, as a general rule, but then you have to give the owner guidance on what to spend the money for. When we then receive feedback that we intend to spend money on polluting gas power plants and gassetting in Germany, it is not interesting for us to follow that general rule, because then we are going in the wrong direction. Then strong words have been used by the representative Hedstrøm, but also by the representative Fossli, that there has been a horse trade etc. There has been no horse trade at all. SV has got through the position that we have always had. We have had the same vision in the matter since I arrived at Stortinget almost four years ago, and we still have that vision. But it is clear that when there is a new, important force cause in Stortinget, we use the action room to see if it is possible to get something into the wake of such a case. We've played with all the parties to see if it's possible to get something else on the force side, in relation to industrial power, ownership, purpose paragraphs, etc. In that job, which I call political work and not horse-trading, we actually have a clear – as part of the government – agreement that it makes sense to bet on mercury tanning in Mo in Rana. It makes sense to launch an environmental technology programme. We're very happy about that. But there is no horse trade at all. It's political work, which is the job we're set to do here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e327	The representative, Inge Ryan, opened up by saying that this is about political governance over State Power, that State Power is the foundation of hydropower in Norway, that they want a political influence on what State Power is going to spend its money for, and that is why they do not agree with the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party. He further argues that the reason why they are not involved is that Statkraft invests in gas power plants and gas in Germany. But it's not like the Storting telling State Power what to bet on, and what not to bet on. It is State power itself that finds out where to act and where to expand, as long as they adhere to the rules and principles set by the Storing. So this is a 'yes, both parts' policy that's weird. When Ryan says he hasn't traded horses, he's probably used what he calls the 'action space' himself. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e332	There is a difference between the Workers' Party and the SV in this respect with political governance. Grethe Fossli's party, that is, the Workers' Party, has been the largest exponent for the depoliticization of Norway in the last 20 years. In fact, we have depoliticised the body we are now in – the Storting has become more meaningful than a decision maker. A number of companies, Telenor, Statoil and others, have taken the lead in depoliticising the Workers' Party, so that politicians do not control them. But there's an SV disagree. We actually want to have political governance over part of the important strategic companies for the country. In particular, with regard to natural resources and infrastructure, it is considered important that the national assembly has political governance and can give clear political signals. But I record that the Workers' Party not only means it, but also has depoliticised large parts of these businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e337	Under the responsibility of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, SV has been the most powerful non-budget supporter of the Right-dominated Government during this process. This time it's Statkraft, and in exchange, SV gets 30 million. kr to a mercury treatment plant at Fundia. We have a lot of other examples, and I'm going to do some. In particular, it concerns SND Invest. It was one of the best public tools, and also there SV sold its ideology, completely through. It was sold to the top finance elite for several hundred million dollars under rate, and I repeat, in violation of SV's ideology. The government was also helped to stop an investigation into how to use the state's capital strength to maintain industrial competence in Norwegian hands, retain ownership of Norwegian hands. The payment was 800 million. SEK to funds in economically weak struts for which no use has yet been found. Does SV feel comfortable being the most powerful industrialist in the right-dominated government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e344	SV feels comfortable when we achieve results that are consistent with our policies. Then we're satisfied. Which party we're working with to get those results can vary a lot. But it's true, as the representative Hedstrøm says, that in some contexts we have been able to get through a lot of our policies in cooperation with the government parties, and we are very pleased with that, because it benefits a lot. The fact that we have a fund-for-nourishment scheme is important for a district party like SV. The fact that we have now got this through Fundia is really no horse trade, and I repeat that we have not changed our vision at all in this matter here. There's something that's gotten into the cool of this case because we've been doing political work. There is no kind of horse trade that has happened in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e351	Now it's usually the Center Party that's being accused of being the horse dealer party. But when the type of direct couplings Ivar Kristiansen presented here, between this case and the 30 million. If Fundia were asked to speak from Stortingen’s pulpit, in some other contexts one would not hesitate to develop the term ‘bought and paid’. I will not claim that SV is there in this case. But trying to make it something other than what it is, I honestly think you should stay too good at. I agree with Mr Ryan on one point, and that is that in some areas political governance should be stronger than what we have chosen to maintain. Unfortunately, SV has also contributed to depoliticising e.g. Telenor by supporting the depoliticisation that took place in 1996. However, what is my question to Inge Ryan is: When Inge Ryan says that the company should be managed through the dividend policy by not giving the company capital to invest in areas that are not to be invested in, I agree with that, but does not Inge Ryan also believe that the company should be managed primarily through business plans and through strategic plans that are decided by the owners, and that the board should then have a mandate to implement the business plans and strategies that the owners draw up, and that capital should then be used to implement those plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e360	I agree with the representative Odd Roger Enoxen that when you know what you want with State Power, the government will be allowed to control after the signals given. But those signals I think should come from the top organ, from the staging and government. I believe that the Stortinget should have the opportunity to say clearly what you want with Statkraft. What State Power has presented as ambitions for the next few years is a commitment to gas power plants and gas in Europe. Because SV is a strategy that we don't think is good. That is why we do not think it is right for them to endorse that strategy. On the other hand, if we come up with a strategy that we think is good, as we think is reasonable by Statkraft as a company to invest in clean energy, we might say in the context of a state budget that we believe that State power needs to get more money, because it is such an important job they have to do for the country, for the environment and for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e368	The proposal of the Committee of the Regions generally applies to all state enterprises, but it is the disagreement on the dividend policy for State power that lies behind the proposal that is being promoted, in which case it is about great values and important political views. State power is a major and important player in the power market, not only measured in relation to other power companies in Norway but also in a Nordic context. State power SF is among the three largest power producers in the Nordic region. State power, the second largest hydropower producer in Europe, has unique opportunities to develop the company to become a leader, not to say the leading supplier of environmentally friendly energy to Europe. Norway is already a significant supplier of energy to the European market, and Statkraft will have a key role to play in ensuring, in particular, the renewable segment of Norwegian and European energy production. These major challenges make it necessary to equip Statkraft with sufficient economic muscles to meet these important challenges and opportunities. I refer to the Council of State letter to the Committee where it is clear that, in a short period of time, State power has now increased its equity by NOK 5 billion. The dividend for the financial year 2004 is 78 pst. of the estimated consolidated profit or loss. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that Statkraft retains solid Norwegian ownership on the way to new opportunities in the Nordic and European markets. It ensures the development of the Norwegian competence environment while ensuring satisfactory national control of this large company in the market. The proposers are concerned that Statkraft should have both predictability and a satisfactory equity base for its activities. I fully agree with that. This is important. In particular, it is a major challenge for Statkraft to be able to position itself in a market that is today characterised by great dynamism and where there is a major restructuring of the dominant actors. Both predictability and the equity situation, I believe, have been adequately safeguarded by the practices and arrangements that now apply to the company. As I said – the Christian People’s Party sees Statkraft as a very important strategic player in the Nordic energy market. We believe that Statkraft has taken good care of the possibilities offered to further develop the company. But that doesn't mean we want an increased distance compared to important strategic decisions in the company ahead. Active ownership by the country will contribute to better ownership management both in terms of the balance between business and social considerations and in terms of the ability to influence the company’s investment with overall strategies and efforts. In other words, abdicating from an active ownership influence by abdicating the right to assess what is a reasonable level of dividends in State power, we believe that we will provide poorer ownership management and thus also reduce the capital discipline in the company. I refer to the fact that State power has been given considerable resources in its time, and has also managed these resources very well. So there is no dissatisfaction with the company's arrangements, which means that the Christian People's Party does not support a change in the state enterprise law, but rather the opposite. We see no good reason to change the law on state enterprises in the light of the experience we have gained in the current practice and in the current arrangements. State power has great commercial freedom to make strategic investments in accordance with the objectives set for the company. At the same time, however, current practices also ensure that the owner has the possibilities that one should have to influence the choice of the road when one comes to important junctions for the further development of the company and which could require new, significant capital. In such situations, therefore, it should be possible for the company to be stronger than a disadvantage that capital injections take place through separate decisions by the owner – rather a strength than a disadvantage, as the majority claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e385	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e389	The representative Steensnæs says that Statkraft is an important strategic actor. I can agree with that. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is going in to bottle this company. It is added up to a dividend in the upper quartile in the next few years, and this will certainly, based on what experts in the field say, impede the performance of the company. So my question to Steensnæs is: What reason does the Christian People's Party have for supporting a high fixed yield, regardless of corporate economic considerations? After all, it excludes the governance from the strategy of taking business-economy considerations into account. And then the Stortinget dealt with St.prp. No 53 for 2003-2004, the government parties clearly stated that they did not wish to add more capital to the company afterwards, as the government fraction in the Committee would like to do. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e396	The size is aggregated on the meaning of Statekraft in the Nordic/European power market. Disagreement is based on the policy of dividends themselves. I believe that from the experience we have with Statkraft, and the significant investments made there, there is also reason to expect a high yield. It is true that, in order to create predictability, there is an indication of a return in the upper quartile. This does not prevent the Government from concluding that it should be placed in the lower part of the upper quartile. Dividends have been reduced, from 95 p.p., as they were for 2003, to 78 p.p., as they are for 2004. We believe that the power market is developing in such a way that it is not inappropriate or harmful for the company – on the contrary – to rely on such a high yield, in line with what is expected in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e405	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e408	As many people have said in today's debate, the company's equity has been increased by NOK 5 billion. It is also true that the company has contributed a new equity of a total of NOK 17 billion, including share capital. It is therefore wrong to say that the company has been abused in any way. However, what is a problem – as we all know – is that this is part of a procurator's bill that has just been used to balance the state budget. This creates unforeseeableness, with which the company is not served. Dividends go into the budgetary indicators and thus help to balance and to address the Minister of Finance's need to have a budget where the underlying expenditure growth does not become too high, while new equity or new share capital is so-called under the heading of money. So you could choose to do it this way. It creates unpredictability. It creates uncertainty externally, including: to the actors responsible for the financing of this company. Of course, it might be right to take out more than 50 pst. dividends for periods. It might as well be right to take out less than 50 pst. It may even be right not to charge dividends at all, but to add new share capital to the company for some periods in order to strengthen it in a large-scale investment phase. Therefore, the Stortingens guidelines on a normal yield of 50 pst. of course, which may be deviated during periods. I don't rule that out at all. The problem is that the Share Act assumes that it is the Board of Directors and not the General Assembly that is exercising the commercial responsibility. We should also take the consequences of that, just as we have done in the Share Act in the case of private companies. Paragraphs 8 to 2 state – as I have said once before in the debate – that the dividend cannot be higher than what the board proposes to the general meeting. It is precisely because a large amount of business responsibility has been assigned to the Governing Board. So it's the owner who, through strategy plans, through the purpose section of the company, etc. determines the company's strategy, the business lines in which to invest and the company's ambitions. This shall be the opinion of the owner. It's a very clear task of ownership. That is why I disagree with SV that it is through dividend policy that the company's activities should be defined or laid down. This should be done through strategic plans. Therefore, it would have been much better if SV had contributed to a strategy plan for the company to ensure that there was no investment in gas power than to secure 30 million. kr for sewage treatment plant in Mo i Rana. It is necessary to have stronger political governance of the power sector than we have had in recent years. It is therefore regrettable that ESA is the main driver of industrial power policy – to a greater extent than we do ourselves – and imposes restrictions on it. It is regrettable that it is the Competition Authority that limits the possibility of, for example: State power should be able to maintain a high Norwegian share of ownership in the hydropower sector and, unfortunately, the sale of local e-works is excessive. Now I would have liked the municipalities to have chosen to keep their power plants much more than they do. But the government's policy towards the municipalities and the tightening up of the municipal economy has forced a good part of the municipalities to sell their e-works. That is why we have come into a situation where State power has also increased its equity through sales. I think it is very regrettable that today we have not been able to get a majority to frame the policy of dividends in state-owned companies that are in line with what you have in private companies. Once we've taken steps to deregulate the state companies and said that they should be operated on the basis of purely commercial considerations, we should also frame that both credit institutions and those who choose to enter the governments of state companies have the assurance that they can operate these companies in the same way as any other private company. Then the Stortinget will have to discuss the framework for the activities of these companies on the proposal of the different governments. Then, on the government's proposal, the Storting will also discuss what is a reasonable profit to put on in the different companies over time. But this is to be done on the basis of a recommendation from the board, where, in my opinion, it should have been clear from the sun that what the board says is necessary in the light of sound business conduct.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e428	The representative Odd Roger Enoksen says it's important that Statkraft is given the same terms as any other private company. But I don't think of Statkraft as any company. State power has a very special task in society, which was also the subject of Enoxen. They include: have been allocated large resources from the state over many, many years to both expand and buy up. They also have a very specific responsibility, because hydropower is one of the most important foundations of our welfare society. It's the hydropower we've been using to build up the well-being of this country over many years. Therefore, Statkraft has a special position and is not any company. Does not Odd Roger Enoksen see that State power in a way has a special position in Norwegian society and cannot be treated as any private company?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e435	The hydropower sector is definitely in a special position, and thus State Power is also. It should have been obvious, therefore, that SV supported a proposal which meant that it would not be possible to make such a high dividend in the company as it has been in recent years. Therefore, SV should also have supported a proposal that the board should have the commercial responsibility, precisely in view of the role that Inge Ryan now describes that Norwegian hydropower sector and Statkraft should have within Norwegian hydropower policy. We have left that responsibility to the board. That's why we should also follow the board's recommendations in the same way as what you have to do, as I said, in any private company. It is the board that proposes, and has control of the amount of the dividend, precisely in order to be able to fulfill the owners' thoughts with the company. Inge Ryan and SV don't want us to have the same guidelines for State Power, and it surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e440	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e443	Government currently manages a significant proportion of its total hydropower resources, over 40 TWh. Norway is the world's sixth largest producer of hydropower. Of the total production of more than 120 TWh of renewable energy, Statkraft represents a large share. In this respect, State power has a special role, and the role of an important commercial operator is even more evident in the phase-out of industrial power contracts adopted by the Stortinge and, of course, in the coming years will also strengthen the ability to operate the company in debt. In my view and in the view of the Government, the great surplus of State power should continue to be assessed in the context of the annual budgetary procedure of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg prioritising the Community's resources. It is also the case that, in the context of the examination of the current budget of the year last autumn, the Government proposed two Roman decisions, which were adopted in this Chamber of the Grand Duchy, which continue to give the Government and the Grand Duchy the opportunity to determine the dividend. So if anyone thinks that the government has not acted on the decision of the Storting, that's not right. There were two major decisions that we took seriously. We proposed that they be lifted by the Storting. The majority voted, and there were a sufficient number of representatives in this Chamber who voted in favour of the repeal of the decisions. A majority, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, voted to repeal those two decisions. Just so it's said. At least we have coverage for that in Stortinget. Then it is that in the case of dividends in State power, we entered into a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party for 2004. You went in for 95 pst. dividends. For the current year, the Progress Party voted subsidiaryly for a solution with what we thought was 78 pst. dividend share. Now the profit has become slightly larger, if you relate to the preliminary result, so that State power will retain NOK 1.1 billion of its profits in the current year. It is therefore not the case that this company is being operated on. Of course, a company that retains DKK 1.1 billion of the profits and in addition has added billions in recent years alone, is still a very robust company. But it is that the company, if it is to do very large operations now, for example. in the European context, must consider whether to raise that capital through foreign capital, i.e. by borrowing, or whether it must go to the owner and ask for an injection of capital. The owner will have to submit to the Stortinget, i.e. that the Government must go to Stortinget, and then the Storting must decide whether this is a project that the Storing seems reasonable. I think it's a good way to set up, especially considering that the company has more than 40 TWh of renewable hydropower, which is very special in the European context. How this company that disposes of this hydropower will continue to act in relation to strategic alliances etc. is an important issue. But now it is the case that the company, with the dividend policy established by the Stortinget, has not bound the company's freedom of action more than that the company has carried out a number of acquisitions and investments in recent years. Not least the Business Committee is aware that the company has made significant investments. As I mentioned, high dividend charges towards Statkraft contribute to the company's capital discipline. It also provides for enhanced ownership control by bringing larger investment projects ahead of the owner or, alternatively, by financing foreign capital at market conditions. I am pleased that a majority reject this proposal today, and that the Stortinge can continue to determine the final dividend.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e461	The Industry Committee has discussed State Power on several occasions during this period, and on several occasions we have either visited representatives of State Power or been visiting. In all of the documents I have hidden – because I hide on some documents – we see that one of the wishes of Statkraft is predictability in terms of dividends. This was answered by the Right and Christian People's Party by promoting a proposal in the Inner East. S. No 248 for 2003-2004 where they say: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the ordinary rules of the Share Act on determining dividends from Statkraft SF.’ It was adopted by the Stortinget by a majority. Then the Government lifted this decision at the last budgetary procedure, and that is why this debate is taking place today. Does not the Council of State see that he now somehow overlooks the decisions of his own party traps in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e472	I have spent enough time in this room not to dry – and of course it is not right – in the government to cancel any decisions that the Stortinget has made. The point is that if the Stortinget has taken a decision, it is loyal to that decision. If you disagree with the decision and see that it makes no sense to implement it, you go to the Stortinget and ask for the decision to be repealed. The size has lifted the decision of the Stortinget last year, and I am in a position to do so. Then it's right that stability is essential for the company. But for 2004, it was 95 pst. dividends, in a compromise with the Workers' Party. This year it's at the base of 78 pst. dividends, in a compromise with the Progress Party. So in terms of stability, one might say that the rate of return in this context has fallen when we have gone from the Workers' Party to the Progress Party as a budgetary partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e479	It is important to distinguish between the parties' primary budget proposals and what subsidiary support is provided for, i.e. the Government. It was the government that made these negative proposals about State force in its propositions. They could not do that. But in order not to have a government crisis, some parties may have to give their support to the Government. Maybe they keep their noses up, but they have to make it subsidiary. That's an important difference. I want to raise a question that concerns this with the fact that SV has been the right-dominated government's nearest support player. State power is an important matter. We had this with SND Invest, where the control committee was also critical, and also the investigation of how to use the state's capital strength. We also have other important things that don't have time to deal with. But I want to ask the Council of State Burning if he feels comfortable that a party far out on the left has been the main industrial policy supporter of this government during this four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e486	Nearly all this four-year period, claims have emerged that the Co-operation Government is a Right-dominated Government. It's a cooperative government with a center-right-cooperation. But I think that today it is quite effectively turned back that it should lead to the correctness that this is a Right-dominant government. So when you say that there is a Right-dominated government with strong support from SV, this has – with respect to reporting – almost buried the use of this term, because it only falls on its own unreasonableness. With regard to convenience in relation to cooperation with SV, I believe that in this case we have reached the same conclusion, a reasonable conclusion, which gives the Storting the right to determine dividends for State power in the years to come. Also in my previous State Council position, I cooperated with SV on a case-by-case basis when it made sense, and I think that is okay. A future-oriented and forward-looking industrial policy can be supported by various parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e493	The fact that the Government is supported by SV does not necessarily mean that the Government has become less right-wing. It could mean that SV has become so pragmatic that you take advantage of the space of action that Inge Ryan said was present, instead of standing on his ideological principles. In 2004, the dividend in Statkraft was quite right at 95 p.m., as the Council of State said. It increased by 585 million. In the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party during the procedure here in Stortinget. This was not in line with recommendations from the board. It was also not in line with the recommendations of the General Assembly. Both have overall business responsibilities. The Government proposed a lower dividend for the Storting than that provided for by the Budget Agreement. So the business relationship that was recommended was waived. What is the Council of State's assessment of this way of dealing with dividend policies in a company?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e502	First of all, this case-by-case cooperation with various parties in Stortinget. The most important thing is the results. With regard to the results of industrial policy by day, they are very good. Export surpluses and industrial investment are increasing. The sum of the comparisons made by the Government in Stortinget with various partners in the last four years has been good for Norwegian business, and unemployment is on the way down. With regard to this, which the representative of Enoxsen has now addressed, it is not correct that this dividend proposal is contrary to the decision of the general meeting. It is well on this board proposal that another proposal has been made to the Stortinget. The dividend proposal now proposed by the Government and adopted by the Storting represents a reduction in dividends compared to 2004. State power also retains NOK 1.1 billion of its profits, which is not a negligible sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e509	It is clear that a minority government must deal with the Storting and some parties on a case-by-case basis. That's okay. But when this starts to draw a pattern, where there is especially a political party far on the left hand side that becomes the support party for a Right Center government, it becomes special. I want to get into the dividend policy and compare. State power will continue to be a balancing item and is handled completely differently from Vattenfall, Sydkraft, E.ON, etc. There are plans, capitalisation, cash flow, costs and opportunities for equity that determine the dividend policy. I can't understand what the idea is that here in Norway we are going to have a dividend policy according to the approach of entry, and that there are no other economic and business criteria that are to be dominant and that the board is to have an influence on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e516	As regards the key elements of a future-oriented industrial policy, they are set out in the budget. It is in the budget that we take a position on seed funds, on tax levels, on different framework conditions for business. In the current year we have a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party which lays the main framework for industrial policy. We have also made a budgetary settlement with the Labour Party in the past. We've never made a budgetary settlement with SV in this four-year period. I think that shade should also be included in this context. State power has been added over 17 billion DKK in new capital since 1996. The company is robust. It will retain at least NOK 1.1 billion of its profits in the current year. It has also been shown that it is not possible to make insignificant purchases so far, with the capital situation in which it is situated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e523	It is possible that I expressed myself a little unclear. In the budget agreement with the Workers' Party, dividends in State power increased by 585 million. kr in relation to the proposals of the Government and thus of the General Assembly for the Storting. I assume that the General Assembly of Statkraft, which is the Minister of Industry, was able to implement its proposal in the Government, and that the proposal of the General Assembly and the Government for the Storting was thus the same amount, namely 585 million. kr lower than that resulting from the agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Government. That's what was my point. What does the Council of State think about this way of treating a company? It was not justified for the commercial reasons of the company, but a result of a budgetary settlement in the Storting, taking into account the balance of the budget and not the commercial circumstances of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e530	First of all, I have to say that the Labour Party and the Centre Party may have something to talk about in this matter, because the representative now to whom Mr Enoxen is aiming was in the autumn of 2003 the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, which set a rate of yield of 95 p.m. A decision was made at a general meeting at a later stage, after the Stortinget had taken its decision. The reality is, with today's system, that it's the Storting that determines this. And when it comes to the Storting, the General Assembly, where the Minister of Industry has been given the competence to represent, will take note of the Storting's decision. That's what you've decided here today, that's how it's going to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e542	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e560	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 353]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e568	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e578	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e604	Here is an alternative proposal from the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:25 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e620	Then there will be nothing to send the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e652	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e662	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01-lower.ana.ud645e673	There is no record.
