ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e24	A number of permit applications are available: from the Røjres Storingsgruppe on the extension of the granted leave for the representative of Peter Skovholt Gitmark to apply until 21 October from the Grand Prix Group on the birth of Robert Eriksson from 14 October to 28 October from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on leave from 17 October to 9 November and from the representatives of Ivar Kristiansen, Eva M. Nielsen, Thore A. Nistad and Knut Storberget on leave from 17 October to 11 November – all to attend the 60th General Assembly of the United Nations, Part Two, in New York These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Hedmark County, Ivar Skulstad, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under Knut Storberget's leave due to illness. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Ingunn FossFor the Finnmark County: Alf E. JakobsenFor the Hedmark County: Thomas BreenFor the Moor and the Romsdal County: Modulf AkhanFor the Nordland County: Søren Fredrik VoieFor the Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor the North Tribute County: Change Skjervø2. The Vara representatives Alf E. Jakobsen, Modulf Aukan and Morten Ørsal Johansen are elected to the Lagtinget for the time they meet Eva M. Nielsen, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e100	Change Skervø is present and will take the seat. The President will then announce that the election of members and alternates to the Electoral Committee, which was held at the Constituent Meeting of the European Parliament on 10 October 2005, resulted in the election of all proposed members and alternates by 160 votes. The President will subsequently convene the Electoral Committee for its first meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e137	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e149	There is a strong consensus that the Norwegian economy is going well. More people come to work, unemployment goes down, Norwegian companies are optimistic and invest in future value creation. In this way, we lay the basis for our future well-being. Our labour force is our most important source of wealth and well-being. So we're going to have to use it in a good way. We need to invest in knowledge, and we need to increase productivity. This is how Norway can cope with tough global competition, and we can still be one of the world's best countries to live in. The future outlook for the Norwegian economy is now better than in many years. We have a good starting point for continued growth and prosperity. It requires that we make good use of the possibilities. The possibilities could be squandered if we don't make the right decisions. The economic results are not self-evident. These are the consequences of, inter alia, the choices made in this Chamber. At the beginning of the previous ageing period, in 2001, much went in the wrong direction: the crown strengthened at that time. Norwegian interest rates were high and were well above interest rates in Europe. The Norwegian export industry had problems, unemployment was on the way up, and the prospects for the future were marked by pessimism. In order to reverse developments, it was necessary to pursue a responsible fiscal policy. This is how we could make provision for a lower interest rate and a lower interest rate. We have succeeded, as a result of a good interaction between financial policy, monetary policy and income policy, i.e. between the social partners. The government’s economic policy has provided room for relief in monetary policy, and the government’s interest rate today is 5 percentage points lower than when the government took over the autumn of 2001. At the same time, this has helped to dampen the pressure on the Norwegian krona, thus improving the conditions for competitive business. Wage growth has moved down to the level of our trading partners. At the same time, the price growth is reduced. Nuclear inflation was about 2.5 pst. In the autumn of 2001, it is now 1 pst. Thus, the real wage growth of households has been good, even with moderate wage growth. The development of wage costs and the exchange rate has contributed to the rise in exports, together with a cyclical upturn in the international economy. After a close stop in 2002, exports increased significantly in 2003 and 2004. We expect relatively good growth this year, despite the fact that the economic outlook in the euro area remains relatively weak. In Business Norway, optimism is great. The profitability of listed companies has increased steadily since the beginning of 2002. The solidarity of the companies has also shown a continuous rise. Economic optimism is also confirmed by the fact that from 2001 to now more than 55 000 new enterprises have been established. Higher profitability and good demand growth have at the same time contributed to the recovery of continental investment. Business investment last year was approximately DKK 6 billion higher than in 2001. In contrast to the relatively weak development in the euro area, with high unemployment and low economic growth, the growth in the Norwegian economy has been strong in the last few years. Last year the gross domestic product of mainland Norway increased by 3.5pst, and we are expecting a correspondingly high growth this year. This is three times as high as in the euro area. This shows that we are making good use of the opportunities we have in Norway. Some countries have high economic growth but do not reflect employment. This is not the case in Norway. There are now 17,000 more jobs than it was a year ago. When the growth has not been even stronger, it is due, among other things, to: that we have managed to reduce sick leave in the last year. The decline in itself corresponds to around 40,000 annual works. When I occasionally meet foreign politicians or journalists, there are two things they want to talk about when it comes to Norway. First, they ask why we are not a member of the EU, and then they ask about our oil wealth. I am not going to refer here to my answers to the first question – we have to leave that to another debate. With regard to our oil and gas revenues, there is no doubt that Norway is being followed internationally with a certain interest. For a small country with an open economy, it is challenging to deal with such wealth without threatening competitiveness. Other countries in history have tried it with less luck before us. There's reason to notice the praise that comes from several experts internationally, among other things. from Nobel Prize winners in economics, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund, in relation to Norway. The rule of action and the way in which fiscal policy has been conducted in recent years have contributed to the confidence of the Norwegian economy, and to the fact that the Norwegian krona is not subject to constant speculations in the international currency market. It is important for each household, and it is important for enterprises that need stable and good conditions. The rule of action is designed to make it possible to use more oil money, while at the same time saving for future pensions. The fact that the use of money is linked to a rule gives greater predictability and transparency of economic policy. Our own, Norway's last Nobel Prize winner in economics, Finn Kydland, has been among those in economics who have pointed out how important it is for politicians to set limits on themselves, so that politics becomes predictable for other actors. The rule of action requires us to use the expected real return of the Petroleum Fund over time, estimated at 4 pst. At the same time, the rule says that we need to take into account the cyclical situation, so that something more can be used in bad times or in the case of a fall in fund capital. The recession and the fall in stock exchange internationally some years ago made it appropriate and necessary to use more than a mechanical application of the rule of action. In order to contribute to a stable and healthy development of the Norwegian economy, it is important that the budget does not lead to overheating. The Government therefore proposes that the budget for the following year be targeted at the same use of petroleum revenues as this year, measured as a proportion of the value added in the mainland economy. At the same time, the Government's draft budget represents a significant reduction in the distance between the expected return on the fund and the actual use of oil money. Use of petroleum revenues in excess of 4 pst. Return is reduced from around 22 billion dollars this year to well 12 billion dollars in 2006. The budgetary policy, if the use of oil money is kept unchanged, may be back on the 4 pst track significantly earlier than we thought. If one sees a continuing sharp increase in the capital of the Petroleum Fund, it would be in line with the rule of action that the use of petroleum revenues for some years will then remain under the real return of the Fund. The public finances in Norway are sound. Nevertheless, it would be to throw blues in the eyes of our citizens if we were to answer ‘we can afford it’ every time new challenges and new demands arise. The public sector will not be better off assuming new tasks. The public sector needs to improve first and foremost by being willing to carry out the tasks in new ways and by giving individual citizens greater freedom of choice between different public services. The government has in the past raised some of the challenges we face in the long term, i.e. beyond four years. We did that in the so-called perspective message. The stork message so many years ahead, and the front page of this message was illustrated by Theodor Kittelsen's painting bearing the title "Long, far away he saw something bright and glittering". The picture shows Soria Moria. [[Laughter]] It is important that the policy pursued over the next four years is also sustainable in the long term. By sustainably, I believe a policy that manages our resources so that Norway can assert itself in global competition, that we can secure and create jobs here in the country, and in that way secure well-being. Despite a good starting point, we face major challenges, among other things. as a result of the ageing of the population. We expect the government's expenditure on pensions, as a share of the value creation, to double over the next decades. A growing petroleum fund will make it easier to meet this challenge. But we do not get along with the fact that we must constantly carry out reforms and pursue a policy that enables those who come after us to continue to live in the world's best country. In the spring, the government parties agreed with the Workers' Party and the Central Party in Stortinget on the principles of the future pension scheme. It is thus a broad majority of a reform that will come into force after – and with perspectives beyond – this major period. It ensures the long-termity, safety and predictability of the pension system. The fundamental principles of this reform are that work should pay off and that there should be a link between lifelong work and retirement benefits. The concrete follow-up to the reform is one of the most important issues in this enlargement period. The government is also presenting today proposals for setting up the State Pension Fund based on the State Petroleum Fund and the Swedish Social Security Fund. So it's no longer about using extra of the Petroleum Fund, or the Oil Fund, as it's often called. The question in the future is how much we are going to take of the Pension Fund, which is there to secure our and our descendants' pensions. The oil price is now at a historically very high level. A sustained high oil price will facilitate the long-term budgetary challenges. However, oil price trends are very uncertain and experience from 1986 and 1998 shows that the price can also fall rapidly. It would therefore be risky to base budgetary policy on maintaining the current high oil price. Cooperation management has prioritised improving business conditions and improving and further developing public welfare services. The 2006 budget is designed according to these main lines. Within the framework of responsibility, we have found room to give priority to key areas. This applies, inter alia, to: increasing efforts to tackle poverty both nationally and internationally. The government also proposes significant increases in the appropriations for education and research, while strengthening public transport. The community economy is improving, the work of full child care coverage is escalating further, and the focus on mental health is given a further boost. In order to achieve the objective of the tax reform of a fairer and more efficient tax system, the Government proposes new reliefs of DKK 2.8 billion in bookkeeping. Primary and secondary education is the basis for Norway as a knowledge nation. The government therefore places the emphasis on developing a school that provides all students, regardless of background, with the basic skills needed to cope with society. In addition, the school should give students motivation and interest in lifelong learning. This is the main objective of the Knowledge Lift, the school reform introduced in all primary schools and in secondary education from the autumn of 2006. The government has set aside 600 million in this year's budget. the development of skills as part of the reform, as well as the means necessary to start the exchange of textbooks, in line with the ‘Culture for Learning’ and the treatment of the Stortinge. One of the main challenges in the future will be to implement the Knowledge promise in line with the ‘Culture for Learning’ and to ensure that the announced reform measures are funded in the annual budgets. Another challenge is to develop a coherent competence policy that gives adults with weak basic skills new opportunities for lifelong learning. Research and development of high quality and relevance and good education that embraces all are among society’s main investments for future well-being and quality of life. The government has therefore prioritised this area very high. The quality reform for higher education is fully financed according to the sector’s own estimates of over DKK 1 billion. Research appropriations have increased by DKK 3 billion from 2002 to 2005. The tax FUNN scheme provides companies with lower taxes in the order of one and a half billion per year. To meet the challenges and seize the opportunities, the Government has set the goal of Norway becoming one of the most innovative countries in the world and of becoming a leading research nation. The government therefore sees a need for a strong further escalation of investment. We propose in the 2006 budget to increase the appropriations for research by DKK 1.4 billion. We are also proposing to raise the capital of the Research Fund to NOK 75 billion. The fund has thus increased from DKK 10 billion in 2001. This will automatically increase research appropriations in the years to come. It is also important that more research can result in new products and services, new businesses and new jobs. In order to promote the highest possible value creation in the Norwegian economy, the Government is offering an ‘innovation promise’, with a strong and focused focus on industrial research, innovation and simplification. Appropriations for Innovation Norway’s ordinary arrangements are proposed to increase by 337 million. kr, or 42 pst. Special efforts are being made to design, travel and maritime research and development. As I mentioned earlier, the Government will continue to fight poverty in Norway and internationally. We are increasing the appropriations for international assistance by SEK 1.9 billion. With this, aid has increased by over 6 billion since 2001 and has risen to 0.96 p.m.. of our record national income. Africa, education, combating HIV and AIDS and good governance are particularly priorities in this area. At the same time, the whole aid management is reformed. The poorest developing countries have been given full freedom of duty and quota-free access to Norwegian markets. In addition, EUR 1.5 billion of developing countries’ debt to Norway has been extinguished. In our own country, we will continue with individualised and targeted measures to help those who fall outside the universal welfare systems. As the first government, the cooperative government has put in place a separate action plan against poverty. Since 2002 and with the government’s 2006 proposal, more than DKK 5 billion will be allocated to new measures against poverty, including measures for the most severe drug users. In particular, we focus on strengthening the link with working life for those who are wholly or partly outside the labour market. The government's draft budget means that we can achieve full childcare coverage in 2006. The appropriations for kindergartens are increasing by DKK 1.7 billion compared to the current budget. Capacity could increase corresponding to 7,600 places for children under three years of age. We assume that an offer will be made to most people who want kindergarten for children over three years of age. With the proposed appropriations and increased growth in the sector, next year we will be able to reach full needs coverage at step 1 at the maximum price. At the same time, it is important to maintain freedom of choice, through the combination of cash support and full child care coverage. In line with the Sem Declaration, public transport has been strongly strengthened since 2001. The appropriations have actually increased by DKK 1.7 billion. Next year, road and public transport appropriations will increase by 600 million. kr. Within the Railway Agency’s budget, funds are released for new investments. Several major road and rail projects will be launched. The government has spent over 5 billion dollars next year on mental health. This means an increase in operation of nearly 800 million. kr. With this, the escalation plan for mental health is on track. The government is adding to a growth in the total income of the local government sector of approximately SEK 2.9 billion in 2006. Two thirds of the growth comes in the form of free income. The main areas of activity with earmarked funding are the nursery sector and the mental health escalation plan. The investment framework for upgrading school buildings is proposed to be increased by DKK 2 billion in 2006, which means that a total of DKK 12 billion of the total investment framework of DKK 15 billion for the period 2002-2009 has already been phased in. As you know, the scheme covers interest expenditure on investments in school buildings. With the government's draft budget, the main elements of the tax reform are in place. Tax reform will provide a better and fairer tax system. The reform is also necessary to ensure that Norwegian rules comply with our EEA obligations. Labour income should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, whether earned by an employee, an active owner or a self-employed person. In my opinion, it is very unfortunate when two persons with the same income pay very different taxes. With today's sharing model, it is too easy and too profitable to camouflage real labour income as dividends. This injustice weakens people's confidence in the tax system. It has been decided to terminate the split model and introduce the screening method from 2006. The screening method involves a high level of non-discrimination of activities. The marginal tax rate on distribution to the owners will be increased by 48 pst. With the Government's proposal for a reduction in top tax rates and the removal of the additional employer's tax, the highest marginal taxes on earnings and share income will be about the same. It is essential to avoid large-scale tax adaptations when the split model is liquidated and for the progression of the tax system to produce good distributive effects. Reduced marginal taxes on employee income are also important in order to pay more money to work. This applies in particular to those with low and medium incomes. It is important that the total tax on capital in Norway does not become too high when taxing dividends. Therefore, the taxes on wealth must be reduced and eliminated in a few years. A turn in the tax on capital from taxes on wealth to taxes on income will also bring the Norwegian rules closer to the practice of many other countries. The government proposes new tax reliefs for next year of NOK 2.8 billion, including the introduction of tax on dividends and the equivalent for self-employed. We're reducing the peak rate in step 1 from 12 to 7 pst. and raise the impact point in steps 1 to 400000 kroner. In 2006, there will be around 290 000 lower taxpayers paying top taxes, compared to the situation in 2001. We also propose to increase the minimum deduction of employee income. The deduction rate is increased from 31 to 33,5 pst. and the ceiling is increased from 57 400 to 63 700 kroner. Lower peak taxes and increased minimum deductions provide tax relief of around DKK 8 billion and ensure that all income groups receive lower taxes on work. Overall, at the base of a million persons, marginal taxes are reduced by the Government’s proposals. It makes it more profitable for many to work. In order to improve the tax system and finance the tax reform, the Government proposes to extend the tax base, resulting in an overall tightening of DKK 1.3 billion. Among other things, we change. the tax rules for the coverage of telephones by employers and limits the amount of the existing Home PC scheme. The changes will contribute to increased non-discrimination in the tax system. Of course, these changes also need to be seen in the context of the relief of the tax ceiling and the increase in the minimum deduction. The government reduces the taxes on wealth by just 1.9 billion dollars, both by reducing the rate and by increasing the deductions on the bottom. Lower taxes on wealth will strengthen access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are mainly financed by domestic investors. Spousees, too, benefit from the relief of taxes on wealth, as our proposal provides them with double deductions from taxes on wealth and therefore comes out particularly well. The government also proposes to double the amount of the inheritance fee free of charge to NOK 500000 and to double the entry point for the maximum inheritance tax rate to SEK 1,1 million. kr. The government also proposes to increase the depreciation rate for machines, passenger cars and furniture from 20 to 25 pst. This will result in a reduction in the tax on enterprises, as investments can be reduced more quickly. The government also proposes some changes in VAT, including: to increase the rate of food from 11 to 13 pst. and to increase the lowest rate from 7 to 8 pst. Among other things, as a result of the so-called Porthus judgment in the Supreme Court, the Government proposes to include accommodation services in the VAT system. The Government will strengthen the use of environmental taxes to improve the environment and contribute to meeting Norway’s international obligations. Among other things, we propose to increase the reduced rates of CO2 and sulphur duty. In addition, the fee for chocolate and sugar confectionery is proposed to expire on 1 December 2006. The government introduced a separate deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations. The discount limit was increased last year from NOK 6000 to NOK 12 000. For next year, we propose to increase the limit further to NOK 15 000. At the same time, we propose that gifts to political parties be included in the scheme, in line with the nomination of the party finance committee. Tax relief is an important part of the government’s economic policy. Lower taxes and taxes help to make working pay and pay off investing in jobs in Norway. In order to make use of our labour force, which is our main resource, both tax systems, pension systems and social security systems must be designed in such a way that it is profitable to work. In addition, lower taxes and taxes will mean that individuals are left with more of their own income and can use the money in line with their own wishes and needs. Welfare is not just the services that government produces. Well-being is also that the individual family can afford to pay their bills, travel on vacation together and at all times arrange their daily life in line with their own wishes and needs. This is how economic policy will enable individuals to live out their own efforts and abilities. The Norwegian economy is solid. The majority of the population to manage economic policy during this large-scale period will be covered. The cooperation management has cleared up and caused the arrows to point in the right direction. More people come to work, unemployment goes down, Norwegian companies invest and rates. Future-optimism is back. Getting to the deck table provides a great starting point. But economic policy results do not come of their own. We're still facing major challenges. From 2010, the number of old-age pensioners will increase sharply. Then we must have a pension reform that can get more people to work and limit the growth of pension expenditure. Otherwise, we will not be able to afford other important public tasks without weakening competitiveness through increased taxes and taxes. We know that Norway needs to invest in knowledge to succeed in global competition. That is why we need to focus on quality in education and improve research efforts. Appropriations for public research in Norway are at a high level. In the future, we must continue to increase quality and stimulate companies to increase research efforts. The basis for growth and well-being is our labour force. So we have to have a work life that makes it possible for more people to participate. And economic policy must make it profitable for individuals to work. The good times don't come of themselves. And they don't last by themselves. But a new government has a good starting point. The political decisions will determine whether we are able to take advantage of the fantastic opportunities we have in Norway. With this, I have the honour of presenting the 2006 draft government budget, a budget for continued growth, more jobs and better well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e290	The President is pleased that it is Theodor Kittelsen from Buskerud who has made sure that Minister of Finance Foss also looks at Soria Moria. [[Laughter]] The President will propose that the Minister of Finance’s statement on the Government’s draft government budget and on the 2006 national budget be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e313	Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik has asked for the floor to give the Storting a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e319	The elections on 12 September resulted in a majority vote for parties seeking a new government. That's why I want to go to the State Council at 8 p.m. Today, 13 applications are submitted to the Co-operation Board for removal. I would advise His Majesty the King to address the head of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, who is the Prime Minister's candidate for the grouping of parties prepared to form a new government. Since I'm assuming this is the last time I'm standing on this pulpit, I'd like to add a few words. It's been 35 years since I first stood on the Stortinge interlocutor's office as an alternate. I guess it's part of today's representatives who weren't even born then. Since 1973 I have been elected as a permanent representative. It's been an honor to be elected to the people, and I've had a great deal of joy in the work of big business and government in all these years. I have seen it as a service for countries and people, and hope to have helped to do something for the benefit of fellow humans. The environment in Stortingen is special. For me, it has been both instructive and human enrichment to become acquainted with colleagues with different political and different backgrounds. I am grateful to have a bond of friendship also across party boundaries. It has been a special pleasure to know about strong loyalty bands within the party group I have represented, and the governments I have been given to participate in. This applies not least to the two governments I have been led by myself. Thank you for the opportunities and tasks I have received and of Stortinget. I want the new big business and the new government to join, good luck! I remember that this work must always be seen in the perspective of being a service to our fellow human beings, especially to those who need it most, both within and outside the borders of the country. It is with gratitude and respect that I leave this my last words from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-14.ana.ud1279e336	The President has all with him in thanks for the good and important words that the Prime Minister has now said about the Storting, and in a thank you for the great work that Kjell Magne Bondevik has done for Norway at large and in the government.
