ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e56	The representative Martin Engeset, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will note that a number of questions have been asked about how long you expect the evening meeting to last. It's not up to the president. It depends on how much the representatives discuss. The President thinks there are small opportunities to finish the morning meeting, and that you have to count on an hour at the evening meeting. The President will propose that the Stortinget examine the supplementary agenda after the ordinary agenda. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e77	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 30 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 15 minutes each. The centre party, left and independent representatives 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Mr Engebretsen, who is the rapporteur on the matter. Kjell Engebertsen has a speaking time of up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e90	I'll try to do this away a little faster than at the advertised time, but there's a part I need to say. It is under the provisions of the Basic Law that the Riksrevision presents its observations to the national accounts for 2003. Under the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Transport we find no records. Thus, the Grand Duchy finds that these departments and their territories have full control of their accounts and that they comply with the provisions in force. The departments and all the establishments included in the accounts have received audit letters, as they call them. Of all these letters, 122 were completely unexplained. 85 letters had certain notes. I believe that the Stortinget must be satisfied with that. Of course, it is not equally satisfactory that the remaining 44 letters had some significant comments, one of which was so significant that the accounts could not be accepted. With as many and extensive and partly very large businesses as we are talking about here, there will be audit notes from time to time. The Storting must expect it, and the Storing must accept it. At the same time, Stortinget has to expect that the errors and shortcomings of the National Audit Office will be corrected. That's also the general idea. Errors in the accounts for 2002 have been corrected, and they do not appear again in the accounts for 2003 for the vast majority of enterprises. Exceptions exist and a repetition is a breach of the acquisition provisions. This is a double repetition. There is a repetition in the sense that it goes back from business to business – there are a large number of businesses that break the provisions on acquisitions – and there is a repetition in the sense that we get it back here to the Stortinget year after year without it being corrected. In relation to previous accounts, and also in other cases, the size has debated the issues surrounding the procurement regulation several times. Very clear notices have been given to the Government that the Storting cannot accept repeated violations of these provisions, and various expert councils have just as clearly assured that this should be controlled. It is therefore surprising that such infringements still occur not only but relatively often. This may be partly due to different interpretations of the legislation. We've come to understand that that's the situation. It may also be due to the complexity of the legislation or to the fact that the provisions have not been systematically transposed by decision-makers or a combination thereof. We are aware that the Ministry of Modernisation in its work on competition policy will review the rules on public procurement, and we assume that these conditions will then be cleared up, so that next year the Storting will not have the same situation again with repeated breaches of the procurement rules. Whereas the rules must be interpreted in a uniform manner and must, of course, be capable of being complied with; We're assuming that this is going to happen now, and that's the last time we have so many breaches of these rules. Another fact that has also been reported earlier but has not yet been sufficiently resolved applies to the letters of allocation. The National Audit Office has reviewed the governance of its departments and the letters of allocation are the tool to provide clear instructions on what is to be achieved for the resources made available. The letters of award shall provide clear instructions on the results to be achieved, determine the forms of reporting of the annual results and specify the overall objectives for the management of the activities. All the companies that have been audited by the National Audit Office have received letters of allocation – so it is followed up to a large extent – but there are only a small number of these letters that meet the requirements. It is important that the letters of allocation also contain assessments of the relationship between the resources allocated and the objectives assigned to each activity. Clear policy priorities are essential in order for management to be able to follow the different assumptions of the Storing. This is also a relationship that we expect the Government to put in place, that the letters of allocation contain what they should contain. Then I must be allowed to point to a few specific matters – first the Consumer Ombudsman, an establishment under the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, where the accounts for 2002 were not approved. We can record that several of the issues raised have been corrected in the 2003 accounts, but that some still remain. The reason why I'm taking up exactly this relationship, and a couple of others, is that what's not in place are the procedures for following up and checking the imposition of the coercion fee and proposing. Of course, these things can't have any special swirling mouth. The Committee considers this to be very serious and expects the Council of State to have this under control quite immediately. Another specific aspect I would like to point out is the accounts of the social security system – an enterprise that we all know is under the Ministry of Social Affairs. There are several comments on this account, one of which points to the weaknesses in the payment of old-age and invalidity pensions. This is also something that Storting cannot accept in any way. In the case of such an area as the payment of pensions to people, the procedure and procedures here must be so good that errors become exceptions. The national audit finds that there has been an improvement from 2002 to 2003 in this area, but considers that there are still considerable weaknesses. The accounts of the defence for 2003 are not approved by the National Audit Office and are therefore subject to a separate review within the Committee. These include: carry out two consultations in order to obtain as full a picture as possible of the situation. These hearings confirmed the findings and observations reported by the Riksrevision to the Stortinget. Let me first make it clear that the matter we are dealing with now concerns the accounts for 2003 and the observations made by the National Audit Office on this account. The fact that both the 2002 accounts and the 2004 budget excess have emerged in the previous debate in different media is due to the fact that the Committee on Budgets has pointed out that there were comments on the 2002 budget that were not corrected in 2003. In the middle of the committee's work, this exceedance of about 900 million. kr up in the 2004 budget. The Control and Constitutional Committee does not immediately care about exceedances, that is not what we jump on with the greatest enthusiasm. But the reason why this irritated our curiosity was that the defense team in December thought that there was control over the accounts, while in January it announced a significant over-exploitation. The Control Committee felt that the impression was weakened that the economy and the accounts of Defence were now well managed. That's why we also looked at it a little bit in the work on the 2003 accounts. Now it is true that several of the representatives of the government parties have said that it has happened in the past that the Riksaudition has not approved accounts for some businesses, but, as far as I know, it has not recently happened that accounts for such an extensive business as this is under discussion. This is the total activity of a department. It's about a budget of about 30 billion dollars, and it'll be unwise, in my opinion, to try to reduce the seriousness of this situation. This is not a situation where the audit has been stuck in trifles, or how over-reliance officials have found small errors here and there that they have been able to sum up to a situation where they have not approved the accounts. Aspects mentioned in the 2002 accounts were not sufficiently followed up in 2003. There were unclear procedures when they put boxes around the defense, found that there was insufficient training in handling the economic tasks, and the coordination between the defence payroll administration and the defense's accounting administration was incomplete. No documentation or summary of the depreciations made in the departments could be provided, there were between 7 500 and 10000 reminders of unpaid bills, there were 2 000 notices of debt collection, and 600 debt collection cases were opened against the Defence. Furthermore, there were errors in payroll payments and some such things, which further reinforced the image of lack of governance with the economy. The defence management has said that it has only done what the Storting has ordered it to do in terms of changes and developments in the defence. That's right, and the Storting has had nothing to say about how the development of the Defense has happened. But it must not get the impression that the problems with the financial management you are now facing are due to the fact that the defence is charged with tasks that the defense itself did not see fit to do, because it is wrong. As far as defence is concerned, exactly the decisions requested by the Government and the defence management have been taken in this Chamber. But reorganising a business to such a significant extent – what we are facing here is a huge reorganisation, probably larger than anyone else we have had in modern times – does not, of course, defend the fact that we do not have governance with the economy. The council has also confirmed that this is how she looks at it. A number of proposals for decisions have been submitted in this case, and in one, II, we ask the National Audit Office to come – in advance, one can almost say – with its revision of the 2004 accounts to the Ministry of Defence, so that it can be clarified whether it has now been organised in the economic system. IV is such in its design that the Storting asks the Government to ensure that you get overall governance of the economy in the Defence. When the Storting formulates itself in this way, this ultimately means that the Prime Minister is expected to take responsibility for actually getting this in place. It's important that we don't get any mix-ups here. The reorganisation and development of the defence of a modern defence stand on its own. So what we're talking about here is budget management, financial management, accounting -- and that's what the criticism is all about and it's targeting. Then I will end by quoting – very freely – the new head of defence, who was asked in an accession interview about what will happen if the defence does not get control of its economy in the very near future. Then he answered something like this: it will weaken the reputation of the Defense in the people in a way that we definitely cannot live with. I absolutely agree with that. No modern democracy can allow a development in which the confidence of the people in their own defence is weakened. With us, the proximity and trust between people and defense are very good, and so it should continue to be. Therefore, no one should try to minimize the situation we are facing, but should help to bring all conditions into place as quickly as possible, so that we can get the necessary work to do the important work that the defence is now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e142	I would first like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the rapporteur was so clear that the conversion of the defence and Stortinget's decision is in this way at hand, and that there is no doubt that the Workers' Party is behind this. It was good that it was said so clearly. But there's one point I would like to challenge the representative of the Engretsen, and it has to do with something that the majority writes in the position on page 34, based on whether you thought you had control of the economy in the Defense or not, and the times when things happened. That's what the majority says. ‘The Council of State also holds lectures, etc. made equivalent statements at times when she was on technical advice and information that the opposite was the case.» I would like to challenge the representative to tell you what kind of talk this would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e154	The National Audit Office began its work relatively early in the year and had a correspondence with the Defence over a longer period of time about the accounts. It was clear to the Minister of Defence what weaknesses and problems were faced with the accounts for 2003. In 2004, the Council of State gave several talks, including: in Oslo Military Society, but she has also pronounced herself in this room. She has not been alone in this – the Minister of Finance has also expressed in this Chamber, from this pulpit, that there is very good control over the financial management of the Defence. The finance minister went so far that he said that there has never been better governance with the defence economy than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e159	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e162	In accordance with the Basic Law § 75 k. it is due to Stortinget "to appoint five auditors, who shall annually re-cognize the accounts of the State and make known extracts of the same by the Pressure". So it's written. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the main task of the Storting is to control the Government and the administration alongside being legislative and granting authority. The Board of Governors shall ensure that the Government implements the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy and shall verify that the various governmental agencies comply with the guidelines drawn up by the Grand Duchy. From this point of view, it is important to stress that the task and competence of the Grand Duchy must be limited to these main tasks, and not to the fact that the Grand Duchy assumes power and tasks which, in accordance with the Constitution and Norwegian parliamentary practice, are to be entrusted to the executive, namely the Government. In order to assist in its control task, the Riksaudition is established as the main control body of the Storting. Through the annual presentation of so-called Document No. 1 submits the Riksaudition to the Stortinget annotations containing replies and proposals for the dissociation of Norway's national accounts and accounts for the administration of Svalbard. Today, therefore, the 2003 national accounts are available for treatment. In my article I choose to place the main emphasis on the National Audit Office's statements and the revision of the defence accounts for 2003. Other members of our group will address issues related to the obligation to provide information and information as well as the background and extent of the conversion of defence. The most common situation is that the Riksrevision recommends the approval of the different accounts. As regards the total activities of the defence in 2003, this was not the case. It is, of course, serious, which the Council of State has also clearly expressed in committee hearings and will certainly also express in this debate. That said, first of all, it should be noted that the defence sector as a whole had a minor consumption in 2002. The overall picture of the defence budget was thus a minor consumption in 2002. Similarly, it is clear from the Committee's examination that the much-mentioned exceedances in 2004 do not apply to the 2003 aftermath. Secondly, the National Audit Office has had comments on the defence accounts all over the last ten years. The accounts for 2003 were not approved, while the accounts for 2001 and 2002 were fully approved, even if they received annotations. Furthermore, since 1995, the National Audit Office has signed a total of 35 annual accounts and a departmental accounts, according to a letter sent by the National Audit Office to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on 1 February 2005. The list is long and can be found on page 38 of the configuration dialog. This is not mentioned to minimize the case, but to put it in perspective. I find, therefore, that there was no additional or minor consumption that was the reason why the National Audit Office could not approve the defence accounts for 2003. The National Audit Office’s main criticism of the 2003 accounts is linked to a lack of traceability and evidence, largely due to challenges related to the introduction of a new wage and accounting system. During the hearing in the Committee, it was found that the overall accounts of the Defence Agency, which from 1 August 2003 consisted of more than 80 different accounting units, had never been documented in the past and that the old economic system did not satisfy the minimum requirements of the State Financial Regulation as far back as 1996. This was, of course, a situation with which it was not possible to live, and which should have been addressed at a much earlier time – by previous governments. By Innst. S. No 126 for 2003-2004, cf. Document No 3:7 for 2002-2003, it appears that the Ministry of Defence in 1997 applied for an extended transitional regime for the adaptation to new economic legislation of January 1996. This was granted in 1998, with a deadline of December 2002. It was therefore overtime that the first stage of the introduction of the new system was launched in November 2003. My sincere opinion is therefore that this was a most required introduction, as hastened. Yes, even the Riksrevision and the Control and Constitutional Committee have already pointed out the need for momentum as well as the risk of the time pressure resulting from the lack of achievement of objectives in previous Programme Golf projects. In the configuration of the Control and Constitutional Committee, Innst. S. No 126, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The majority understand this so that, on the one hand, the Riksrevision gives rise to criticism for a lack of momentum, while at the same time warning that time pressure may lead to a lack of synchronisation. The majority will point out that the time pressure is partly due to the lack of target achievement in previous Programme Golf projects.’ During the Committee's proceedings, there has been good evidence that the Storting has been continuously informed of the ongoing change in defence, including the status and challenges of achieving the migration objectives set by the Stortinget. This has been done through annual budget proposals, defence long-term plans, consultations and replies to the Defence Committee, etc. In particular, there is reason to refer to the comprehensive information that Stortinget received in St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 on challenges related to the downsizing of defence. In the budgetary position of the Defence Committee, the majority of the decision on a staffing of 5000 persons stated: ‘The majority further emphasise the importance of maintaining the planned rate of conversion and maintaining the human resources targets.’ Through the examination of this matter in the Committee, we have also been made aware of the considerable number of measures taken to follow up the comments of the Riksrevision. This shows that the Defence Service has taken seriously the comments made by the National Audit Office on the 2003 financial statements. Furthermore, it is positive that the Ministry of Defence has implemented further exceptional measures in addition to the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence itself, which include the provision of external assistance to review both financial procedures and accounting and audit advice, the strengthening of the Ministry's work on the follow-up to the National Audit Office's annotations by adding annual work to that task, the allocation of 10 million. kr for exceptional training measures in the Defence presented in the autumn budget, decision that financial management is becoming more important for career development in the Defence and creation of its own position as Chief of Finance in the Defence. A demonstrable effect has been achieved in several key areas: The number of debt collection cases has been reduced from 670 in February 2004 to 40 registered cases in December.The number of outstanding past due bills has been reduced from 12000 to 2600.All departments have established a visit protocol to ensure proper stock counting with quarterly reporting. New data support tool has been introduced. Of course, many of the measures taken to correct errors will also help to prevent new ones. Similarly, of course, not all measures will be fully effective immediately, but will have to work over time. There is reason to recall that the Court of Auditors has not delivered an opinion on the accounts of the Defence Agency for 2004 and that therefore there is no basis for any opinion on this matter from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs at this stage. The Government has announced a case for the Storting on the causes and consequences of the accounting over-consumption within the Army and the logistical organisation in 2004. I refer you to the Riksrevision's statement that it says: ‘The Court of Auditors welcomes the measures that are, or will be, implemented.’ So a few words about the much-mentioned letter of 18 November 2003, which some media representatives have presented as if the Defence Staff were warning of the pace of the transition. This is at best a gross misunderstanding and at worst a deliberate attempt to misuse information. The Committee’s hearings made it clear that neither the sender of the letter, the Defence Staff, nor the recipient of the letter, the Ministry of Defence, considered or considered that the contents of the letter should entail changes to the 2004 budget. There was an agreement on downsizing and conversion requirements for 2004. The letter of 18 November actually referred to was the calculation of the staff cut-off for the whole period 2002-2005 and thus had nothing to do with the 2004 budget. This was also confirmed by the Head of Defence Staff at the hearing. In the middle of the considerable political and media attention that has been related to the increase in consumption in 2004, there is every reason to recall that this is not money thrown out of the window. I would like to refer here to the opinion of former Chief of Defence Sigurd Frisvold at the hearing of the Committee: "I'd say we've gone the right way, and we're getting good results. Above all, we get very positive feedback from NATO in relation to the operational capabilities." The Defence Manager’s Annual Report for 2004 mentions the increased operational capability of the Defence Officer and refers to the different capacities and improvements achieved: the F-16 fighter aircraft of the Defence Force have acquired air-ground capacity with better precision and effect, and can operate in the dark. The army has received protection, firepower and mobility through the establishment of mechanised departments. The defence has further developed a number of high-quality joint capabilities, such as special forces, deployable communication modules, surgical unit, Air Control Unit and forward air controllers for air-ground support. This must be said to be a quite impressive result when, according to former Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal, of the Workers' Party, the starting point was that ‘the defence is in a deep and sustained structural crisis’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e248	The representative of Engeset made a point that it was not a lag from 2003–2004 that led to this severe exceedance in 2004. It's quite possible it's more impressive to be able to spend 900 million. kr more in one year than distributing it over two – I don't know – but the point is that there were 240 million left. kr from 2003, bills and expenses, which were not paid in 2003 but were paid in 2004. You can't ignore that. So you could say that this was a system that the defense had so far gone into. Despite the fact that the Riksrevision had repeatedly said that it should not, it was forbidden, then one would have gone to it, and transferred bills from one year to the next. So the actual ratio is -- I guess Engeset agrees -- that it was 240 million. kr, which was due in 2003, which was paid in 2004, and of course adds the additional expenditure to the accounts in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e255	This theme took considerable time in the Committee during the hearings. The fact came out quite clearly: this was an obvious consequence and a necessary consequence of the conversion of the accounting system, which should have been done at a much earlier time. You couldn't rely on not adding costs in the right year. The system that you'd been using for years ended, and that's a problem you won't have with the new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e261	I just want to point out that with the new system, the amount that was called ‘intersumption’ became considerably larger the following year. So the new system hasn't solved the problem. The representative Engeset touched in his post a letter that was not sent, and which he thought was a nullity. Is it the representative of Engeset's view that when the Defence Staff first sends a letter to the Department on 18 November 2003 and points out that the objective of 2002-2005 of 4 400 posts in decline should be adjusted as a result of new tasks, is it not of interest? And even if one discusses a consensus, it is a fact that the head of defense’s support apparatus – and I assume that that support apparatus does not consist of amateurs and unqualified persons – added several concepts to a new letter in which one specifically asked, at least in one of them, for the reduction to be adjusted by 1,088 posts. Is it the opinion of the representative Engeset that this does not signal a significant disagreement between the department and the defence staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e268	When I spent some time in my post commenting on the letter of 18 November 2003, it was a letter that was sent, not a letter that was not sent. So here I think the representative Hagen must have misunderstood. I spent some time on that letter because it has been misunderstood in the debate what the letter actually contained. The letter that Carl I. Hagen refers to was also a topic in the hearings in the committee, but it was a letter that was not sent, and it's a completely different matter. A letter that was not sent is difficult for us to relate to. The head of defence also spent a lot of time in the hearings explaining what this was, and that it did not meet the objectives professionally. That's why I don't see any reason to spend any more time on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e273	I really have to say that it is alarming that the Right devalues the very large conversion problems in the Defence, which resulted in the 2003 accounts not being approved, which for 2004 resulted in an exceedance of DKK 1 billion, and which has not yet actually been cleared for 2005. In their comments on the 2003 accounts of the Defence Agency, the parties to the Government write: «Furthermore, since 1995, the National Audit Office has signed 35 annual accounts and 1 departmental accounts in total». And on the other hand, ‘These members believe that this should be in line with the criticism of various accounts that have been approved by the Storting, and have noted in this respect that the accounts that have been signed have never previously resulted in a critical quota in the Storting.’ I would like to ask the representative: is it really the case that the government parties believe that this matter is not important, because other signed accounts are more important? Isn't the right party that thinks there has to be order in the accounts? And does the representative Mr Engeset really believe that the Minister for Defence is able to clean up this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e290	Yes, we definitely believe that the Minister of Defence who is sitting is able to clean up, and I think through my post I have very clearly documented that in a number of areas the Minister of Defence is in the process of really achieving good results and has cleaned up a number of situations. I think we can confirm that. Otherwise, it's like prewritten lines in advance that one says what one intended to say, no matter what was said in the previous article. I underlined in my statement that the fact that the Riksrevision has not approved the accounts for 2003 is a serious matter, which there is no reason whatsoever to minimize. But when in our remarks, and I also in my post, we have pointed out that this is something that has happened a number of times earlier, it is to put the matter in perspective and also try to find out more in the public information service that that is the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e297	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e300	The representative, Mr Engeset, expressed confidence that the Minister of Defence sitting was able to clean up. It is an assessment I do not share, and on behalf of the Progress Party I will make the following proposals: ‘The majority deplores the handling by Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold of the budgetary and financial management of the Defence.’ Reference is also made to the I Decision in the opinion of the majority of the Committee, which reads as follows: ‘The size of the case is particularly critical that the defence accounts for 2003 cannot be accepted. Serious observations from the National Audit Office in the context of the accounts for 2002 help to strengthen the impression of a lack of financial management.’» So it's not like Mr. The need later to believe that the reason for the strong criticism is only the accounts in 2003. It is a continuing situation, over many years, which is, in fact, also being dealt with in the Grand Duchy today: serious statements in the 2002 accounts, then came the 2003 accounts, which were not approved, and last autumn the Minister of Defense, supported by Minister of Finance Foss, said here in the Chamber that the financial management in the Defence Agency has never been so good, and that now everything was in the best order. And the Minister of Finance gave commendation to the Minister of Defence. Then a few months goes by, and out of the big world, there's an extra charge in the defense of nearly $1 billion. This is why the Progress Party no longer trusts that the Minister of Defence is able to clean up, and also when we see what she has done after the suspension was given. I'll come back to that at the end of my post. So this is a permanent situation, for a long time. It concerns the I Decision. This is, I think, one of the first times that the Stortinget, in the II Decision, is invited to make decisions to ask ‘The Court of Auditors shall submit a separate case to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain as soon as possible for a review of the Ministry of Defence’s accounts for 2004’. It's just because of the history over many years and different information about what's really the situation. In order to carry out a possible assessment of responsibilities, we need some unrequited people to review the 2004 accounts. It is not enough for the Ministry of Defence and the staff to present their accounts. It is the National Audit Office that is the unhidden body, and everyone should have waited for the investigations and results there before drawing conclusions and carrying out the personnel consequences, even in the case of liability matters. I hope that the National Auditorate will do a thorough and good job, so that we can know what is the real situation. In fact, I have seen the situation for 2003-2004 identical to that of the case rapporteur, Mr Engebretsen, that in the case of bills to be paid, additional appropriations should be made available in the ordinary regrouping proposal received by the Stortinget every year in November. That's where we were to have a further 235 million in 2003. kr. Instead, the budget deficit in 2004 adopted by the Labour Party and the government parties was used. Then it is no wonder that things can go wrong in 2004. In III, the following is proposed: ‘The majority find it critical that the Ministry of Defence has not provided the Stortinget with information on important professional objections relating to the manning of various professional staff in the various units of the Defence.’ A letter was sent, one open and one not open, to the Ministry and the Minister of Defense, from two inspectors general, one for the Army and one for the Home Guard, who strongly warned against the dismantling of the staffs. You would not be able to do the job, and the Härstaben was reduced from 120 jobs to 55 jobs and 23 jobs. It was pointed out that it would have consequences. Then you can’t say in the department later that you didn’t know it would have consequences. It is the type of information to be provided to the Stortinget. We also have the correspondence that was affected in the previous reply, where the Armed Forces Staff sends a letter to the Department of 18 November and in reality asks that the reduction target for the period 2002-2005 – no one other than Martin Engeset has thought this was about the 2004 budget, there are no misunderstandings here in us – must be changed with 1,088 posts. That's a pretty significant number of total 4400 – 25 pst. change. This is the type of letter that the Stortinget and, in particular, in the middle of a budgetary procedure, which also concerns future signals for the coming years, should have been automatically sent. Instead of ensuring that the Stortinget receives the information, the new integrated department communicates with each other. You talk, and it's pretty much without any protocols, you hide the disagreement that was between the Defence Staff on a professional team and the Department, and it's being scrambled. The majority would never have known about this if it had not been one or more who profitably let the Stortinge get to know about it, which the Council of State should have done as early as November/December 2003. That is the background to the proposal in III. We are also pleased with IV, where we ask for a ‘own cause for the Storting to make visible how the Government should regain overall governance with the Defence economy’. We're looking forward to it coming. We have stated in the past that there should be a roll-out proposal, where we also took a position on how to cover the additional consumption in 2004. Of course, the government is familiar with that. So a little bit about the responsibilities. After the increase in consumption in 2004 to everyone's amazement came close to NOK 1 billion, after everyone thought it would be roughly balanced, it had a personnel impact on two people at the beginning of January this year. Not for those sitting at the top, who are responsible – the head of defence offered to leave, it was grown up, the Minister of Defense rejected the offer and did not assess his own position to any particular extent, as we see it – but what happened was that without thorough investigation, without actually allowing the people concerned to come up with their explanations, two persons were appointed to the responsible ones. And a new expression showed up, an expression I've never heard in my years in the Great Britain before, the word "Capital Leader". The head of the Defence Logistics Organisation and the general inspector of the Army were appointed as Chapter owners and were charged with what appeared to be exceedances of nearly 450 million. kr in the Army, and some of the same in the Defence Logistics Organisation. I think it was profitable that the general inspector of the Army quickly set up an independent selection to go through this. The Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence should have done the same. Instead, there was a sort of conflict between several people about what was right. So the responsibility was placed on the Inspector General and the Managing Director of the Defence Logistics Organisation, and it was claimed that they were the ones who should have made sure that things did not happen. So how is it consistent with the responsibilities under which the Ministry of Defence has otherwise placed itself on the market? We can look at a document, the Ministry of Defence integrated from 1 August 2003. The main tasks of the Ministry of Defence are as follows: ‘After the announcements and propositions have been dealt with in Stortinget, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence to follow up the decision of the Stortinge through the management of its establishments.’ It is the Ministry which is to govern agencies. The term ‘core tasks of the Integrated Department’ includes, inter alia: the following: ‘Plan, budgeting and implementation in the medium and short term’ And also: ‘Overall management of the activities of the departments of the financial year’ And furthermore, under the Department of Economics and Governance – it is actually in the Ministry a significant department for the economy and governance of the entire Defence: ‘The Economic and Governance Department is primarily responsible for the planning and development of the defence activities, organisation and structure within each long-term period. Furthermore, the department shall operate the overall management and control of its activities in its establishments.’;» Then you completely waive this responsibility and this control item and say that it is those we should be in control of, who have not done their job. That is said after something has been revealed in January/February this year. Where was the follow-up in 2004? In a fine brochure from the Ministry of Defence, the establishment plan of the Ministry of Defence in 2004, the entire department has gone through. This control department, led by the Head of Mission Fridthjof Søgaard in the Department, is responsible for the successful conversion of the FLO. ‘The activities are carried out under the adopted budget.’ This Title V is responsible for the implementation of the activities under the adopted budget and is due to the subordinates to be monitored. It is also quite clear that ‘activities will be implemented under the adopted budget’. There is a detailed description, there are a number of measures, and it says in fact that Title V is to establish a priority list of investments and operations in 2004. That has always been said to be a responsibility of the inspector-general. However, the Ministry of Defence’s own business plan states that it is the Ministry that will establish a priority list of investments and operations in 2004 and reduce, if necessary, the mission portfolio and the level of ambition of the Defence Military Organisation. It is the Ministry that is responsible for financial management and, if necessary, implementing measures. So it is said that it was the Director General and the Director of the FLO who should have this control. The ministry has nothing to do with this. It's not the department that's supposed to be in charge. It is the inspector-general who should have an overview, should know if he had unpaid bills, etc. The department knew like nothing. That's not right. I have here a whole bunch of the weekly status report, 2004 accounts, which is sent to the ministry every week. POD, the Personnel, Operation and Operation Department, receives weekly reports from a Morten Bjerkan on the status of Golf, the new accounting system. Let me mention something from the report on 28 September 2004, before the Council of State and the Minister of Finance were in the Chamber and said that it was good economic governance and control. Here is the status in a summary: Fixed approx. 1,200 people with incorrect cost management. ==References== 900 people left. We have to wait for further progress to be made until the end of the week 40. 2 413 members of the organisation with 6,528 services that cannot be linked to any responsibility. 375 people who are unable to service in several jobs failed in the payroll. ==References== 900 persons left to manage costs. There's also pointed out a number of other things here. So let's go to one of the later reports, just before the end of the year. So it's the ministry that gets an overview of this. The weekly status report, 2004 accounts, 15 December 2004 contains the uncertainty log: The possibility of correct and complete closure of 2004 accounts is lost for each day. Chief POD should consider the priority to apply between timely versus correct accounting arrangements. And... Many factors have been identified during the 2004 project that make the system, i.e. FIF version 1.1, not appear to be stable, nor will it be in 2005, if no necessary measures listed in this status report are implemented through a controlled introduction/implementation of parts of FIF version 1.1. This must be controlled by the Chief POD as the owner of this management system. So the Ministry has been constantly warned that there is no sound management of the defence economy. They've been able to go through a huge pile of these weekly reports. So when the Minister of Defence blames two others, it cannot be accepted by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e383	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e388	It may seem a little strange that I am taking a line on a party that we have been with in the setting. We agree on a very strong criticism from the Minister of Defence. It is a criticism that places responsibility on the Prime Minister for the peace of the Minister of Defence in the way he does. Then my question is, what has changed since we gave the setting? Why didn't the Progress Party come up with a motion of censure at that time? Is this the basis that the Minister of Defence has made sure to kick a critic? I share the criticism of what the Minister for Defence has done – but is that the basis? Why does the representative Hagen think that there might be a basis for making a motion of censure now – a proposal that he did not make when we discussed the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e395	In the special comments made by the Progress Party in the position – we have a relatively long, comprehensive specific comment – we clearly state that if the Minister of Defence implements human resources measures before the Riksrevision has completed its review of the accounts for 2004 and can provide a sound and fair basis for any human consequences, we will consider it a provocation. It really means that the desire – an easy way to understand it – was quite full. The criticism that is in our joint proposal for a decision, I have never seen the husband of in my time here in the house. It's a two-pronged decision. It's only been promoted once before. The fact that the Government and the Council of State appoint a new general inspector for the Army, and that – there are rumors, but I have not yet been confirmed – there are also plans to get a new director of the Defence Logistics Organisation, is the drop that is being requested to run over. So the request was full, but when that drop comes, and we've written this in our notes, it's clear that the Council of State is asking for the proposal that I've made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e402	I fundamentally disagree with Mr Hagen's view of the constitutional situation, and not least in his understanding of the obligation to provide information, but I will be allowed to come back to that in a later article. I noticed that it was obviously not easy for the representative Hagen to keep track of all the details – when you go as far as detailing his post as the representative Hagen did, it can't be easy either – where he said several times as if POD was a unit in the Ministry of Defence. As far as I know, there's a unit in the Defense Staff. And that's a not completely immaterial difference, because it takes away the entire Carl I. Hagen's points in this area. So I'd like to ask the representative Hagen to take his position on whether I'm right about this actual relationship, or whether it's Carl I. Hagen who's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e409	I think this was a very good question, because it actually shows the completely impossible organisational situation with an integrated department. The role of the Chief of Defence is a two-hatred role. It's true that POD is part of the Defense Staff, but it's the general inspector of the Army, who's probably also in the team. For me, it is completely unthinkable that all that is of weekly status reports should not be known for department V in the department. I read both from the statement on the Integrated Ministry as of 1 August 2003 and from the business plan of the Ministry of Defence how Title V is the one that also has governance responsibilities in detail. Title V is part of the department, and that is in case you have not done the job you should have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e417	I got an answer to another question than what I asked. I did not ask questions about how to look at the current organisation of relations between the Department and the Defence. I asked a very simple question, about Carl I. Hagen had been injured to misinform the Stortinget when he several times characterised POD as a department in the department. I interpret Carl I. Hagen's answer so that the answer really was yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e422	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e425	I would like to begin by commending the rapporteur for his very thorough work in the committee, which is the basis for the position of a majority. The size will be strongly criticised, and the most important reason for this is that the Riksrevision has not been able to accept the accounts for 2003. But it's quite clear that the seriousness has to be seen on many rugs, and some of that I'm going to take up. Both in 2001, 2002 and 2003 criticise the accounts of the Defence Agency. When Stortinget dealt with the accounts for 2003, Stortinget repeated the very sharp criticism contained in the notes made by the Riksrevision. At each crossroads where criticism has arisen, whether it has been in the accounts or research of the project — now the Programme Golf — the Council of State has taken over and controlled it. She has done so several times from the Stockholm pulpit, even when she must have known that the Riksrevision could not approve the accounts for 2003. So we're going to get the billions for 2004. This must be just a backtrace, that's not what we're dealing with today. But it can't be stuck under the chair that some of the billion deficit is due to 235 million. kr which has been drained since 2003. The defense is an organisation that more than anyone else needs trust and legitimacy. It is therefore important that the State Council has control and that it informs the Storting if it appears that the implementation of the Storting decision has serious consequences. I just want to join in what the rapporteur said, and his quote from the new head of defence, namely that it is essential that the defence has confidence in the population. I want to further problematize the conversion process that has happened, something more than the case rapporteur did. There can be no doubt that some of the faults you have encountered are also due to an accelerated conversion process. Firstly, the internal audit was weakened in a difficult situation with major changes. This had to lead to a weakening of control. Together with several other relationships, as I understand it, it has also led to a weakening of the ability of the capital owners to control the expenditure. Then a very complex accounting and salary system was introduced without providing the necessary skills development and training. On the contrary, in this very demanding conversion process, competence was removed. So four out of five economic workers were removed. In a note that the Progress Party shares with SV on, we have shown that the background for the introduction of phase 1 of the Golf programme was that it should strengthen the financial management of the Defence. Then it is alarming that the introduction of this system with great certainty has led to errors and deficiencies in 2003, and we will probably see the same in the 2004 accounts. SV has been skeptical of the flawed basis on which the introduction of this system has taken place, and we seem to be getting right in our scepticism. Then we have internal invoicing, or what is so beautifully called horizontal interaction. There we have received some information that has emerged in the hearing. It has also been introduced on a failed basis. I will quote Edvin Værøy from the League of Civil Servants, who said during the hearing: ‘Horizontal trade in internal invoicing was established without the existence of a fully economic and delivery binding trade or delivery agreement between the parties. The understanding of the system and the competence of use and procedures is very poor. We also lack a cost picture and the introduction of a system that requires large resources to move figures within the Defence." When there were warnings about the consequences of going as far in the downsizing as the Storting had decided, I believe that the information would arrive at Stortinget when the Stortinget was in the middle of the budgetary procedure. Then there is certainly reason to say that the same ones that warned in the letter of 18 November, to which it is referred earlier, came to an agreement with the Minister of Defence. It is then important, as the Committee has stressed, that there is traceability in the internal dialogue, that there is therefore an opportunity to verify it, that it is possible to enter into the internal dialogue in order to see what kind of basis was found for that consensus. The common denominator for 2003 and 2004 is international operations. We write in a note that ‘increased use of international forces abroad is a result of NATO’s ‘out of area’ strategy’. SV has, as it is known, been opposed to participation in the operations undertaken in 2003 and 2004, but this is not really the case. But there's political disagreement about this, and then it's very important that the Storting is aware of how much these operations actually cost. It's impossible to figure out now. Cape. 1792, which is often referred to, shows the extra costs, but what it actually costs is not possible to figure out. That is what we believe we need to see in our accounts. The representative, Mr Hagen, has put forward a motion of censure. We agree that it is critical that, after all, the Council of State has turned someone into scapegoats. We have also heard during the hearing that this is a culture where warnings cannot easily come out, and those who warn are brought to silence. We therefore agree with this criticism. The representative Hagen also said in his reply to my reply that the basis for the motion of censure is precisely in his own comments, and that what has now happened has happened. We believe that the criticism that has emerged and that is contained in the decision here is on its own. We believe that it is the prime minister's responsibility to keep a Council of State that is subject to such great criticism. We see that the basis for the motion of censure is also disagreement on staff policy. We believe that this has not affected anything. It should have taken place that the Stortinget would be responsible for the personnel policy that is being pursued, if we are allowed to join the criticism that has emerged. We also believe that there are opportunities to come back to things later, and then we'll see what we're doing. Then I'd like to address something that has nothing to do with the Defense, but with the Ministry of Culture and the Church's handling of Norwegian Typing. The Riksrevision points out that Norsk Typing’s involvement in Fabelaktiv AS and Spillworlden AS – the last one about involvement in Sri Lanka – has led to a tipping surplus of 40 million over four years. kr less than it should have been, that ownership is based on informal communication between Norwegian Typing and the Ministry, and that there are unclear guidelines for this. We believe that it is very unfortunate that the department has not had more control over what Norsk Typing has done, especially when Norsk Typing and the entire gambling market are under such pressure as it is. We assume that from now on the Ministry has clear guidelines in its control of Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e463	I have to say I have a bit of a problem with taking the defence seriously, when the representative, Mr. Ågot Valle, said in his post that one reason for the problems in the defense was that it was an accelerated conversion process. It is a rather special opinion of a representative of the SV. Here the representative Valle tries to ride two horses at the same time. Later it was as if you were opposed to the changes, while in its alternative budgets SV proposed billions of dollars in defence – a total of 18 billion dollars less during the four-year period they have proposed in their alternative budgets. Then we can start talking about conversions; the changes that have been made are just a slight breeze compared to what SV's budgets would have done. So this I have problems taking seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e468	I believe that in my post I gave good enough examples that there are hasty conversion processes that are the cause of the mess that now appears. The budget adopted shall also be maintained. When it appears that the budgets cannot be kept, the information should be provided. It is on a completely different basis that SV has come with other alternative budgets. After all, we disagree with the view of the defence. What are we going to defend today? That's what's at the root of the defense we want. But we also need to get information about the development of the defence so that we can come up with our budget proposals. I would also like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that the draft budget we had for the current year did not have a negative impact on operations, but on investments – investments that we do not actually need.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e475	It is true, as the committee's chairman said, that the killings that were asked to run against us were the human resources policy, which we stood alone on when it came to comments in the committee. But I could imagine asking the chairman of the committee if she does not agree that even the senior officer, a general inspector and a managing director of the FLO, should also have a reasonable degree of security in their employment contracts and employment relationships and in relation to senior management. And is the personnel policy shown here, by the fact that without proper investigation, without asking, investigating and digging, responsibility is placed with subordinates in relation to the staff, department and chief of defence, acceptable – while they continue in positions for a long time after they have been held accountable for all authority, ribbed them for prestige, publicly designated them, who sat in a sort of gaping stick, as scapegoats for which one should take responsibility? Does this mean that the SV and the chairman of the Committee do not agree that this is a critical personnel policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e480	I believe that what has been done is critical. I also believe that high-ranking persons in the Defence should have freedom of expression, as others in the Defence should have, because it is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to get the information we need in order to make the decisions we are to take. I also think, as I said both in a line change and in my post, that it seems that people here have been turned into scapegoats. But Stortinget cannot accept responsibility for a personnel policy for which the Minister of Defence is responsible. I believe that the criticism that the majority of the majority in the United Kingdom has now come up with is on their own, and that it is the prime minister's responsibility to keep a Minister of Defence so critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e487	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e490	At the outset, I would like to say that it is important to see this matter in conjunction with the development that we have had in the Defence for a long time. Norway's defence is important in securing national interests. The Norwegian defence has ours and is changing. Defence has adapted to the new challenges through conversion and the necessary efficiency. The defence shall cover both the traditional defence tasks and the staff and resources allocated to international operations. It has been an important objective that a greater proportion of the funds for defence are channelled into operational activities and that responsibilities are more widely delegated to the various departments. The defence of the country’s security must be relevant. It must also be trusted by the people. It is therefore important that the defence has the highest possible reputation and confidence in the population. The defence must have sound economic governance and manageable values in a safe manner. That is why we have a very important debate here today. What, then, is the basis for the Riksrevision's criticism of the 2003 accounting? The National Audit Office has not approved the Swedish Defence Agency’s accounts for 2003 due to lack of internal control, lack of reconciliation, lack of audit trail and breach of current legislation. The Ministry of Defence and Defence have themselves established and implemented a wide range of measures due to the circumstances of the Riksrevision, which has been pointed out by their revision of the 2003 accounts. We have to await the National Audit Office’s assessment of the 2004 accounts before any conclusions can be drawn. Because that's the 2003 accounting we're talking about today. It seems that many of the problems in 2003 are arising from the introduction of the new accounting system. It looks like it's about it. It almost seems that there was better control of the old system. Why did one then have to change the accounting system? The introduction of a new accounting system in November 2003 enabled the Defence Military Organisation to satisfy, from 2004, the minimum requirements of the Financial Management Regulations of the State, related to external accounting, inter alia. through the establishment of better traceability and better reconciliation functionality. The national audit has for several years criticised the fact that there have been outstanding balance sheets at the end of the year. The new accounting system provides a better overview of the balance sheet for internal invoicing, which at the beginning of 2004 was about. 220 million. kr. The end of this practice is in line with economic legislation and the Riksrevision makes its observations. From 2004 onwards, the defence of its military organisation has established an economic system to enable the defence to satisfy minimum requirements of economic law relating to external accounting. The defense of its military organisation and the Ministry of Defence have identified and put in place a number of measures to solve the problems that have arisen. Measures have been targeted both at the system and at improving processes and routines in the organisation. Follow-up and monitoring of the concrete actions undertaken and implemented in 2004 will be continued in 2005. The Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces will follow up this work, to make sure that it gives the desired effect. The process of developing defence's economic system to meet the different requirements of the country's economic legislation extends over several years. Phase 1 is mainly implemented, and phase 2 planning is in progress. The result will be an increasingly comprehensive basis for defence financial management throughout the process. The information obligation towards Stortinget has been a central theme of the Committee's work. We are all certain that the Government has an obligation to provide enough information to the Storting. So, has the Storting got the information needed to make its decisions? The Christian People's Party believes that the Stortinget has been briefed on the change in defence, on the status and challenges of achieving the conversion goals set by the Stortinget through annual budget proposals, defending its long-term plans, hearings and answers to the Defence Committee. In St. prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 was briefed on challenges on the downside. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 7 for 2003-2004 showed the majority in the Defence Committee of the Decision on a reduction of 5 000 persons, stressing the need for this to be implemented: ‘The majority further emphasise the importance of maintaining the planned rate of conversion and maintaining the human resources targets.’ In the hearings conducted by the Committee, a letter dated 18 November 2003 has been central. Someone has taken this letter as a warning that the military conversion was too extensive. The hearing revealed that the Defence Staff letter of 18 November 2003 addressed the need for a corrective mechanism for the reduction of annual work in the Defence Military Organisation. All in all, it is important to know what method of calculation we would use to arrive at the final sum for the downsizing, which was due to be completed on 31 December 2005. The letter also stated whether the crew should be counted inside or outside the 5,000 to be manned down. After the message was sent, a solution was found to the problem. The letter did not deal with the 2004 budget or the 2004 staffing targets. It was the end date of the year 2005/06 and the basis of calculation of what was recorded. The defence trades among others. to make people feel safe. I'm left with a last theme. I think it is very unfortunate that the defense has recently experienced leakage to the media of important classified information. On Friday, 4 March 2005, we learned that the Chief of Defense Sigurd Frisvold was talking to the head of the Defence Security Department. He said, «... we've had more leaks than before. This applies, inter alia, to: classified documents, where we have one thing now that we follow up. We have had a very serious case regarding the leakage of Rules of Engagement, i.e. guidelines for the use of power in international operations, which could actually endanger the lives of Norwegian soldiers. Otherwise, it has to do with attitudes, it has to do with the ability to comply with the legislation on internal procedures. So I think it's unfortunate for the defense internally – definitely also in relation to the reputation of the defense – that leaks occur." What former defense chief Frisvold said here, I can only agree with him. This must be serious. Finally, I would like to stress that it is serious that the defence's accounts for 2003 were not approved by the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office is its main corrections to the administration, and critical observations provide important corrective information on improvements. It is therefore important to take careful action to find the right reasons, so that one can find the right actions. The work on correcting errors following the Riksrevision’s criticism has been extensive, but absolutely necessary in order to obtain better results in the future. The Christian People's Party believes that the defense is doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e536	The representative, Mr. Auchan, felt that the new accounting system had to take a lot of the blame for what had happened. I think it's really simplifying it. And as he himself said, this was introduced in the autumn of 2003. I don't think you'll find the whole answer there. Then he also says that we have to wait and see what the Riksrevision says about the accounts for 2004, and I agree with that. We have to wait for that. But it is not unreasonable for 2004 to enter into the debate here, as it is now, because we have knowledge and knowledge of the exceedance that has occurred there. And the actual exceedance is now a matter of its own which is discussed in the right forums, but this fact that in December they said that we have control, and in January they said that there are no 900 million. kr, this may not lead to Modulf Auchan being sure that the system is in order for 2004 – or is he?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e541	When it concerns the accounting system, or the change in accounting system, I tried to find out in my post that there is actually two parallel accounting systems that have gone into each other. And it might seem that the transfer from one to the other has our problems. I seem to see that the main reason is there. When it comes to whether it's safe to do this now, I think the ring we had in the committee revealed a lot of important things that the committee had to have in order to feel that one could move on safely. So my answer is that I feel it is going on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e553	Modulf Augan said that important classified information had leaked to the media, and that it is not good. I agree with the heart – if there is important classified information that can put some crew situation at risk. But I have a question for Modulf Auchan about the practice that we feel in Defense, where we see a lot of clear indications that you have a kind of attitude that goes on that if you're in doubt, you grade for safety's sake, and you rate material that should definitely be promoted by the public, because you might find it a little embarrassing to yourself if you know it. I would like, among other things: refer to this letter from the Armed Forces Staff dated 18 November 2003, which was graduated because of the need to grade a small part of an annex. Does Modulf Aukan agree with me that then you'd better try to try a line of transparency, so we have a free debate where you'd rather take out the little attachment and let the rest come to the public's attention? And does he agree that it would be appropriate for freedom of expression to apply also to officers in the official defence policy debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e558	Yes, the processing of classified information internally in the defense is broken by anything other than when it comes out of the system. I have to say that I'm very concerned about whether it's a staging representative or it's the media that has access to classified material from a system that I have great confidence in, because I have great confidence in the defense, and I expect that one that follows the rules of the game. If one has freedom of expression – yes, inside the Defense has one of course. It also said clearly to the head of defense: they're talking internally about difficult things, of course they're doing it, and then there's tough discussions going on. But from that to allowing classified material to move to the media and any staging representatives, it seems to me to be a little over a mile.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e565	The representative, Mr Auchan, is concerned that leakages should not occur. However, the Defence Committee did not have information on what was stated in that letter from the Defence Staff of November 2003 until it became known to the public. It also applied to the lending of equipment to the United States during the Iraq war related to laser target lighting equipment, which was also not informed about by the Stortinge. Many people will see this as problematic. Does not the representative, Mr. Auchan, think that these are two examples of information that the Storting should have shared before it was published in public?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e572	I think well of the matter from the public debate. But I tried to say in my post that information that can actually put the lives of Norwegian youths at risk, the defense has to be able to keep to itself. I'll hold on to that. I believe that as a civil society, with a defence that is increasingly assigned internationally, we must have a system that allows one to operate safely, so that our sons and daughters who are going to participate in the Defense can also feel that they are safe, and that leaks cannot lead to their lives being put at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e579	Modulf Augran said that this with graduation applies to systems you have internally in the Defense. My point was that I asked a question about a letter from the Defence Staff to the Ministry of Defence – i.e. not an internal letter. But what you're trying to do is that there's still something that can be called the outer floor of the defense, and when the head of defense wears his defense hat and not his department hat, then it's no longer internal. Does Modulf Augan agree that the type of information should be as transparent as possible, so that it is revealed when there is any disagreement between the Defence as the External Etate and the Defence Manager as the Head of the External Etate and the Department? On what other basis can the Storting and the public take part in an informed debate on the Defence – if you tie all the officers, and if you have the line that you also get a defense chief trying to put a lid on the debate, as there are signs that the last and the current one has as their intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e588	As a former soldier, I have great respect for the systems that clarify what is publicly available information, and what is not. It's probably stuck from that time. When it comes to Storting's relationship with the inner life of Defense, we have to stick to the Council of State. Another direct communication with the various systems down in the defense will be hopeless. We have an organization, the National Audit Office, which we use to produce the information that Stortinget thinks it needs. We will also use it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e595	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e598	It is a very serious and comprehensive criticism that the Government is meeting in Stortinget today in connection with the fact that the defence accounts for 2003 have not been approved. The denial is not based on pettyness either. It is based on a number of serious errors and shortcomings in the accounts. Let's look at some of them: there have been thousands of debt collection cases, warnings and reminders. There is no confirmation that the correct salary has been paid for two of the 12 months of the year. It has not been possible to check wage and travel advances. It has not been possible to confirm whether income is correctly shown and actually shown. It has not been possible to see total investment costs. There has been no clear distinction between acquisitions related to investments and operations — to mention any of the items mentioned by the National Audit Office. The fact that an account for such a large one-year contract is not accepted is itself serious. However, it is no less serious that the accounts for the previous three years have also had major shortcomings and that exceedances have been detected in the 2004 budget. The causes of the economic problems in defence are many, and they are probably also complex. The centre party believes that many of them must be linked to the way in which the conversion process in the defence is actually carried out. In this context, let me draw up a few points that the National Audit Office points out in the context of the 2003 accounts. The National Audit Office clearly states that the requirement of competence must be asked when introducing such a large and complex accounting system as the Gulf Programme is — whether it was good enough when the system was actually in place. Did one have the skills you needed, in place? The National Audit Office also points out that, at the same time as such a comprehensive system was to be implemented, one chose to dissuade those who had competence that was just linked to economic and accounting conditions. It is difficult to imagine that any other company would have done the same when introducing such a critical system as the new accounting system — at the same time choosing to remove key personnel, simply. And let me say, it hasn't been missing any warnings along the way. No one in this room will come and say that no questions have been asked. The costs of international operations have been asked. There have been questions as to whether there is a budget for the various phases of the Gulf and for the programme as such. There have been questions about the disappearance of key personnel for a critical time related to the switchover. Questions have been asked about job closure without changing tasks. It's almost impossible to get answers. At best you get a nice and general answer. In the worst case, there is no response at all. And the reluctance of the Ministry of Defence to answer that kind of question has been obvious. The centre party therefore considers that this is essentially about the process of conversion itself. The central party therefore disagrees with the assessment made by the rapporteur in this regard. We believe that the downpour has been irresponsible. We do not believe that it has been possible to put into practice the costs associated with new priorities, for example: international operations. We believe that we have had a defence department that has not been willing to problem anything until they have got their backs against the wall. We also believe that we have had a defence that has not shown the necessary respect and will to follow up decisions on some important points. If the conversion process in the Defence is not reviewed in a more maritime-critical way than we have seen so far, it is the claim of the Center Party that the economic problems in the Defence will continue in the years to come. It is a very serious decision that the majority today makes divided into four proposals. The Central Party supports these proposals. The follow-up of the four points is crucial for confidence both in the Right and in the Defence Government. The centre party will await the follow-up of these points. We will therefore not support a motion of censure today. But let me immediately say that changes in appropriations in the revised national budget and a big message on the situation in 2004 are in no way sufficient to meet the requirements of the four points that the Storting will today adopt. Now the Government and the management of the Defense must be willing to go into maritime criticism with respect to their own processes. They're balancing on a sharp egg here in Stortinget today. The ability and willingness of the Government and the Defence to enter into maritime criticism are, in reality, also about the confidence of the Defense as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e622	As the trade committee leader for the field that is probably the most discussed today, it falls in my mind to start by saying a little about defence policy, even though it is strictly not a topic. I would like to stress what the rapporteurs said that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties agreed on the important and necessary conversion of defence. The Workers' Party is not just a supporter of a completely necessary reform, the Workers' Party was the driving force behind the reorganisation – at least the political driver, it was perhaps other military proponents. It was the Stoltenberg government that laid out St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 in the spring of 2001, and the reform is firmly anchored in two defence policy settlements between the Labour Party and the current government parties. So the development of the defense has our support. Operational capability has been significantly enhanced. We have removed the crisis-stricken labour-intensive and heavy organization from the cold days of war. The big mobilization and invasion defense is gone. Instead, we now have a mobile and flexible defence with small but robust and highly qualified units that can move out at short notice, either in the event of crises at home or for peacekeeping operations. There may be disagreement about some instruments – I would like to emphasise it – but the direction is right. We are e.g. quite skeptical of the current demarcation. I think there's a real disagreement here. I have to add that conversion can never be an excuse for economic root, for lack of accounting competence, for an annual financial statement of nearly NOK 30 billion not being approved, for a lack of economic governance, for uncontrolled use of consultants, for not being able to get paid in a proper way – just to mention some factors that have emerged. We've really had other states that have had big changes, without the entire financial management having gone overboard. Nor do we believe that the economic root is a consequence of the conversion. But in the demanding situation the defense is inside, not least for the employees, we cannot accept economic root. Not only is the Defence and Defence Minister weakened in relation to the Storting, but the reputation and credibility of the Defence are also weakened in the opinion and among the people most. It's just reading in the press for the last six months. If the lack of financial management is something that is going to persist, i.e. That we get a further repetition of this, it gets even worse. It will, in my view, require control of both the short-term and the long-term financial management. This must be taken seriously both by the Minister of Defense and by the Government, and they must be humiliated in view of the fact that in the long run one of our largest states cannot keep up with economic roots, perhaps the state that requires the greatest credibility. Because I have to add that the defense is an institution that must have loyalty. It is, after all, about the institution that administers Norwegian defence and security policy. The leakage culture we've seen should probably end soon as well. Nor does it strengthen the reputation of defence among the people most. I would like, like others before me, to stress that what we are dealing with today is the 2003 state accounts, not the 2004 budget excesses. In fact, the size is currently unknown to the content of, at least formally — and the extent of — the exceedances and the reason for the exceedances. We are therefore waiting for a matter from the Government where we are told what has actually happened. Let me stress what Marit Arnstad said in conclusion, that it is the Stortinget who is going to deal with the economic consequences. It does not have the authority of the Government to do it itself. Of course, the Committee’s view of 2004 is whether there are any lines that can be drawn from 2002, through 2003 and until 2004. This was absolutely necessary when looking at the basis for the treatment of the 2003 accounts that had not been approved. Overruns in 2004 weakened the impression of an improvement in financial management, and it was repeatedly said by both the Defence and Defence Ministers that control had been given and that there was a improvement in the way. Finally, I would like to raise a matter that is also contained in the comments both from a joint committee and from the committee majority. Having seen the National Audit Office's comments on the accounting for what the Defense calls horizontal trade, or what we in the political environment call the Invoicing System in the Defence, I think it's time to take this system up for evaluation. This applies primarily to rents, but you might want to look at the whole of horizontal trade. And I have to ask some questions. Is it really like paying rent for runways? Or don't you? Do you pay rent for practice fields? In this case, who has decided that it should be done? Can we accept that armored carriages are outside the garages and are destroyed because we can't afford to pay rent – otherwise to an internal company in Defense, i.e. Defence Building? Later on, you feel like you have – or you simulate – a market that you obviously don't have. This is a state state state, this is not a market. Then it might be a bit interesting to turn back to the evening post last Saturday. The new head of defense has been quoted before today. I'm going to quote him exactly from the Evening Post on April 2nd: ‘Concepts such as balanced target management, horizontal trade, market alignment, etc. has been admitted in a short time.» He goes on to say that it works relatively well. But then he adds: ‘In a few words, the reason is to try to simulate a market mechanism in an enterprise which in any case will have clear monopolistic features. This has an unfortunate impact in some contexts both on the ability to manage and the use of resources.’ Well, this is what makes us have to look at horizontal trade and get it evaluated and see if it works properly, especially if it creates problems with financial management, and if it leads to the building up of administrations, bureaucracies, etc. At least I think these were wise words. In the end, I think it is important to underline something that Marit Arnstad also said. There's a culture in Defense that you prefer not to deal with political decisions. We have a lot of examples of that. I think the defense has been very used to the fact that the decisions that are taken are very general and very broad. When the Storting goes more deeply or concretely, it often becomes difficult. And I want to add that in a recent interview, the deputy head of defense actually said that the Stortinge was 90 pst. of the professional military councils with regard to the two long-term plans adopted. If there is something that was not there, but that the Storting has decided, those decisions will actually also apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e658	The fact that the Riksrevision has not found it possible to approve the defence accounts for 2003 is serious. In 2002, for the first time in at least 13 years, the defense managed to obtain ‘no observation issues’ from the Riksrevision. A validated accounting is always the objective. We failed in 2003. The main reason for this was that we underestimated the challenges of introducing both a new pay and accounting system, a new central payroll unit in Harstad and a new central accounting unit in Bergen, while most parts of the organisation underwent an important and comprehensive change. I pointed out last year that the implementation of the new pay and accounting system in November 2003 posed problems in areas such as reconciliation, traceability and pay-out, which again resulted in challenges for the National Audit Office relating to the assessment of the accounts. We know that it is common for transitional problems to arise when an accounting system is changed. We also got that in the defense. The defence has therefore established a very comprehensive and detailed list of concrete actions to follow up each entry from the Riksrevision, and the list of actions is regularly reviewed at the level of management meetings and updated on an ongoing basis. In addition to measures taken by the Ministry of Defence itself, the Ministry of Defence has initiated further measures, cf. letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee of 3 December 2004. Although, in the light of the measures taken in some areas, we can now see a measurable improvement, as I also stressed in the two hearings, we will have to make some of the measures work over time, over the years, before we can expect full impact. This applies, for example: competence-building measures relating to the use of the pay and accounting system, as well as the necessary cultural changes, changes in the way of thinking and understanding of the organisation related to the introduction of horizontal trade. It is important to stress that the work is demanding. There will be both the coming year and the current year, and there is a need to increase the competence of personnel and adapt the new systems to the challenges that arise. It is premature to conclude that the measures have had the effect of correcting each of the errors identified by the Riksrevision. In addition, the forthcoming phases in the Gulf will be necessary to address weaknesses and provide adequate solutions in some of the areas where the Riksaudition has had comments, such as storage systems and horizontal trade. Deficiencies will not be resolved in these areas until the next phase of the Gulf is introduced. However, it is an important and positive signal when the National Audit Office writes in its opinion on the 2003 financial statements: ‘The Court of Auditors welcomes the measures that are, or will be, implemented.’ With regard to some of the issues that the majority have pointed out, I see a need to nuance the picture somewhat. The total accounts of the defence were per year. More than 80 accounting units on 1 August 2003 and have therefore never been documented before. It is important to stress that the old accounting systems did not make it possible to comply with economic legislation and that it was therefore absolutely necessary to introduce a new system. But there is no doubt that we did not anticipate transitional problems. This does not mean that it was wrong to introduce a new accounting system. It was necessary. When Stortingen dealt with the National Audit Office’s opinions on the defence accounts last March, we were aware that the defence had challenges related to the implementation of a new pay and accounting system, in particular in relation to traceability. That is why we also informed the Storting about it in the debate on 11 March 2004. Furthermore, in the almost four years of the transition, I have placed considerable emphasis on the Storting being informed about challenges related to the conversion of the Defence, including downsizing. The 2004 budget proposal informed that the personnel situation was serious, that the voluntary redundancies had almost stopped, and that the defence had been entrusted with tasks that led to an increased need for human resources. A unanimous defence committee, in its budgetary position, said the following to this information: ‘The Committee refers to the reduction of defence by the end of 2005 by a minimum of 5000 annual works, as provided for in the Innst. S. No 232 [[2001-2002]] I do not devalue a signed account. The overall constitutional responsibility is without doubt mine. As the Council of State, I intend to follow up the criticisms and comments of the National Audit Office carefully. That is why we have put in place comprehensive and work-intensive concrete measures aimed at each point the Riksrevision has addressed. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. I look seriously at the criticism contained in committee and majority comments, and in the motions for resolutions, and of course I take note of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e696	There was one thing the council said, as I would ask her to elaborate a little bit for us. When you start new systems, it's like the competence's in place. It's a prerequisite for the system to actually work. With the modern management systems that we have today, electronic systems, etc., it's very difficult to keep going. When the Council of State says in its statement here that the competence to operate existing systems will come into place gradually, but that it may take a while before you are there, what does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e703	From my point of view, the intention was to point out that we know that transitional problems arise from the exchange of accounting systems, not in any way under-communicating responsibility for the existence of competence when the systems are implemented. I was also quite clear in my post: we did not succeed in 2003. We underestimated the challenges of introducing both a new pay and accounting system, a new pay unit in Harstad and a new accounting unit in Bergen, while the whole organisation was in full transition. I listened very carefully when the President-in-Office made his statement, and there was a great deal there in which I agreed – perhaps most recently, that no one should minimize what has happened. But we must all contribute to the development of all relationships and to the solution of them for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e710	The action plan for the Ministry of Defence 2004 states that Title V, headed by the Head of Mission Fridthjof Søgaard, is responsible for the objectives and is implemented under the adopted budget. The description reads as follows: ‘The objective is to keep the operating costs of the Defence Military Organisation within 18 812 million in 2004. kr. Tangible investment costs in 2004 shall be kept at a level of 7 483 million. kr. FLO’s operating costs shall also be reduced according to plan [[personnel/annual]] The Ministry of Defence, Section V, is responsible for this in relation to this plan. How, then, can the Council of State absolve both defence agencies and PODs who receive weekly accounting records and have known everything going on? How can she absolve department V and her own department, and turn the blame over to subordinates, when it is clear in her own business plan from the Ministry of Defence that the responsibility lies in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e720	There is no doubt that the overall constitutional responsibility for everything that happens in the Ministry of Defence is mine, and everything that happens in the subordinate agencies under the Ministry of Defence, including the Defence Military Organisation. This does not mean that not even a manager has the right to organise his office in the way he thinks is best to be able to follow up the budgets allocated to it and the tasks entrusted to it. Here I would like to remind you that the head of defence already informed on 18 January that he recommended placing two of his subordinate bosses at the disposal, a recommendation I made. Nothing new has happened here. What has happened is that the head of defence has implemented what he himself announced on 18 January, and which I also informed the public that I took note of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e727	I am pleased that the Minister of Defense says that there is no reason to minimize what has happened. Then one must also take it seriously when one is going to follow up the decisions that the Storting will make today. I will challenge the Council of State to say how she will make visible how the Government will recover overall governance with the defence economy. Does that keep a big message? How will the Minister of Defence proceed? Then I want to say a little bit about conversion processes, because it's absolutely crucial whether or not you're going to get into the goal. One may agree or disagree as to what kind of conversion processes are needed, what kind of defense one needs in the future based on the threats that exist. But at least one thing is absolutely certain: one has to bring the employees on the team. How do the Council of State assess their cooperation with the elected representatives of trust? What does she think is the concern expressed by the defence and by the confidence-seekers that emerged during the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e736	Of course, as I also explained in my main post, I would like to take note of the serious criticism that exists on the part of the Committee and, of course, follow up with measures to improve the situation in view of the references made by the National Audit Office to the defence accounts. At the same time, I think it is important for the Storting to have a real impact on possible budgetary measures for 2005, as a consequence of the increased consumption in 2004 that has been revealed. The size of the budget will therefore have the full opportunity to examine and decide on each of the possible draft budget amendments for 2005. It is also announced that the Government will promote a case that explains the increase in consumption in 2004 and, of course, immediate measures to prevent recurrence in 2005 of what we have seen in 2004. We have also been involved in the list of measures. I'm sorry, President, I ran out of time to part 2 of the question. I'll see if I can do it in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e743	The Council of State came in a reply here to say that we have to remember that everyone has to contribute. It's a little bit of a mistake to say. Here it is the responsibility of the Government and the Council of State to contribute, and it is their responsibility to clean up what is now available. If one does not want to have a discussion about the conversion itself – I understand that the government parties and the Workers' Party do not want it – then one has to ask: is it not at least a willingness to go in and be problematic in relation to the way the conversion is done, in relation to the way key staff disappears at the same time as complex changes are carried out, in relation to the way a person fails to make visible the costs of large projects? Has the ability and willingness to discuss it become clearer through the strong recommendations and comments that have now come from the National Audit Office? That's my first question. My other question is, When and how will the Council of State follow up III in today's decision, on a separate matter for the Stortinget? It is not sufficient for it to be revised, it is not sufficient for it to be reported in a general report on the situation in 2004. The majority today is asking for a separate case about the overall governance of the defence economy, about the possibility of recovering it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e753	Of course, the government will follow up concrete decisions taken here in the Chamber. This also applies, of course, to the decisions taken today. And the way we want to follow them up, we're going to get back to it. I have underlined that we have both notified a case that explains the additional consumption in 2004, and we have announced that Stortinget will of course be given the opportunity to decide on any amendments relating to the 2005 budget. Any other thing we have to get back to. At the same time, it gives me an opportunity to get short on some of the things that were up in the previous line round. My attempt at the quote from the Engebretsen, that everyone had to contribute, was after the memory something I thought he said in his post. But to give it a transition to the question from the Socialist Left Party, it's of course that the relationship with the organizations is important. Everything that happens in the defense is my constitutional responsibility. It also means that I have a clear self-interest in having as good a relationship as possible with the organisations, and of course I want to try it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e760	The Minister of Defence pointed out that it was the defense chief's recommendation to appoint two scapegoats. Does this mean that the Council of State did not make an independent assessment? Did she not assess the legal certainty of the two concerned? The Secretary-General of the Army has been appointed by the King of the Council of State and not by the Chief of Defence, formally. Here we sometimes have to be formal. She is aware of her own plan that the responsibility for the proper running of the defence lies in Title V of her own department? Does she think that a bunch of weekly reports that warned against a lot of accounting problems were unknown to the Ministry of Defense, which is probably represented in some governance groups in the Gulf? At least the Armed Forces are receiving these reports. Did not the Council of State make an independent assessment of the appointment of two scapegoats? I understand that she's doing well for this. I'm sorry. I also find it regrettable that the new head of defence does so. Does this mean that this is a human resources policy which the Minister of Defence intends to accept for the future, that one can be cancelled without actually having the chance to explain the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e766	My previous answer made it clear that the head of defence already recommended on 18 January that two of his subordinate bosses be redispatched. It was a recommendation I chose to base. I then clearly communicated to the public that I trusted the head of defence's assessments. The serious thing was not only the additional consumption, but also the fact that as late as December, the defense's accounts were going to balance, and then you get completely different messages in January. Of course, I want you to have a good personnel policy in the Defence. Therefore, I note that the public was informed on Friday that agreements have been reached between the two mentioned managers and the head of defence – an agreement that has been agreed upon, and an agreement that has been approved by the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e773	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e776	I must admit that this matter is mainly going to be about the defence accounts today. This is an interesting thing, even when we compare it with the civil world outside of Defense. If a company manager, with a civil company with many thousands of employees, had come to his accountant and told him that it was not possible to settle the accounts because the accounting system had been changed in the course of the year and not made it work properly, the auditor would probably have thought: Do I hear correctly now? Is this possible? So this had never happened in private business, no matter how much you could have shown that you had converted your organization during the year. Group leaders, often dominated by the Right People, had never accepted this. The criticism of the Court of Auditors is very comprehensive on a number of points. It is concluded that it is not possible to approve the 2003 accounts of defence military organisations. At the point after point – yes at almost all points – it has been shown that things have not worked. This applies to wages, salaries, acquisitions, income, stockholding, etc. The warnings have been many, from the Defense itself, from independent actors who have advised the Defense, and even – to the extent that the Storting has been informed – from individual parties here at Stortinget, in particular related to issues and warnings surrounding the Golf programme, and also related to the Defence's task portfolio, which is still too large. And that's one of the problems. It is very strong criticism that is being addressed to the Minister of Defence in the majority vote today. We can all see that, and it is difficult to understand that the Prime Minister does not take the consequences of the real content of this criticism. Criticism is very strong, and it limits itself to distrust. So Carl I. Hagen is promoting his motion of censure here today; so easily the Minister of Defence should not escape. It seems to me that the 2004 situation is the basis for this proposal, and that case has not yet come to the Stortinget. But there is every reason to raise very strong criticism of the treatment that Lars J. Sölvberg and Erik Hernes have had to undergo. It looks like the panic map. But is this a matter which the representative Hagen believes is really in Stortinget? Isn't this actually a matter that comes here later? The question of the obligation to provide information is interesting. The representative Engeset mentioned the exchange of letters that took place with the Defence Staff in November 2003 and until 8 January 2004, when it suddenly stopped. It was about the ability to meet the downtime targets and the inability to do so if tasks were not removed. This was true for both 2004 and 2005. Then there was a draft response, which was not sent, and the defence committee was never informed. When was an agreement reached between the Defence Staff and the Ministry of Defence? Yes, agreement was reached in the autumn of 2004. What we now have after the 2004 exceedance is in many ways the phase of what was the basis of the Defence Staff correspondence with the Ministry in autumn 2003. That is why these matters are linked. 2004 highlights 2003. So to the understanding of it all. If the economic mess with which the representative Nybakk was involved is not due to the process of conversion and the problems associated with it, what is the reason for this? Is the problem bad management? Is the problem of system weaknesses in the organisation? What's this messed up by? The criticism is very strong. Finally, I would also like to read out what is the Committee's recommendation IV here today, and I would challenge the Minister of Defence on that point. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, without undue delay, to present a separate case to the Storting to make visible how the Government will regain overall governance with the Defence Economy.’ It is important that the Storting gets this case. The size must get it as quickly as possible if it is to be possible to correct the impression of the defence as a messy organisation, which is now spreading out into the population. There's no reason for it to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e800	The background to this debate is the 2003 accounts of the Defendant and the examination by the Committee of the Court of Auditors of the observations and the non-approval of the Court of Auditors. However, it is clearly a challenge not to go into the exceedances in the accounts for 2004, despite the fact that there is a case that has not yet come to the Grand Duchy and that it should be dealt with in the Defence Committee. It is important to follow the rules for the Riksrevision to examine the accounts for 2004 before the Committee on Control enters into and believes too much on an incomplete basis. The underlying reason for the lack of approval of the defence accounts for 2003 is essentially a lack of traceability and a lack of votes. In order to meet the minimum requirements of the State Financial Management Regulations, a new accounting system had to be introduced. The old accounting systems did not satisfy the economic legislation. This was absolutely necessary. The period of derogation expired and a new accounting system had to be introduced. The introduction of the new wage and accounting system in November 2003 resulted in a number of transitional problems, as pointed out by the Riksrevision. In order to address the problems that have arisen, action has been taken to address the system and to improve processes and procedures within the organisation. The Ministry of Defence has revised the financial instructions for the departments. The new instructions have given particular attention to the conduct and requirements of the National Audit Office. All underlying agencies are required to be organised with their own financial management function. The floors shall establish controls at each holding in order to ensure proper control of the management. The specific responsibility of the budgets for following up any observations of the National Audit Office is emphasised in the revised instructions. Furthermore, it is clarified that an assessment of administrative competence and exercise should be included in the individual's service opinion and given significant emphasis to career development. Furthermore, specific clarifications have been made about acquisitions and property management. An example of this is contractions in relation to requirements that must be met by direct purchases. These are some of the important measures to get the necessary governance of the Defence economy. I refer you to the Council of State posts, where she said that of the last 13 accounts for the defence, only the accounts for 2002 have not received any comments from the National Audit Office. The defence must try to get the economy in order as quickly as possible, but at the same time we know that the implementation of the accounting system is divided into several stages, and thus it takes some time before everything is in place. It may seem that there are also some attitudes that need to be changed in the Defence. Changing the way you think and act is necessary in the Defense in 2005. I would also like to mention that in recent years it has become more transparent in defence. But in order for this transparency to be perceived positively and confidently, it is important that the entire defence understands and relates to political processes and also looks at how internal processes are handled in public space. Let me end by stressing the importance of the transformation that defence has undergone over the last few years. The combination of the introduction of a new pay and accounting system and the large changes in the organisation has been challenging. This does not mean that the changes could not have been implemented. A new accounting system was necessary in order to comply with national economic legislation. The change in the defence was also necessary and absolutely unavoidable. Just because the transition has been so significant and profound, it has been so important that a broad majority of the United Kingdom has been united in decisions and implementation. The Christian People's Party hopes that this consensus and the shared sense of responsibility will continue in the future too, because we are all committed to facilitating the execution of our defence mission: being a central security policy instrument for the political authorities. The broad anchoring of the modernisation of defence in Stortinget is a crucial prerequisite for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e815	It is an important and serious matter the Storting treats. Perhaps the most important fundamental aspect of the matter is the constitutional issues it raises, namely the question of the responsibility of the Government in relation to the Storting and the responsibilities of each State Council in relation to the Storting, and, on the other hand, the responsibility of the Storting to understand its own role correctly, that is. in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. During this ageing period, we have had a sample that has undergone the control function of the Storting – the so-called Frøiland Committee – and that is the function exercised in dealing with this matter. On that basis, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has issued an opinion on the Stortinget, Innst. S. No 210 for 2002-2003. In this setting, Stortinget has substantially unanimously agreed to the understanding of the applicable rules of the game. On that basis, representatives of all parties in this Chamber have also put forward a proposal for a new constitutional provision to define more precisely the disclosure obligations of the Council of State in relation to the Storting. It is therefore important for me to stress that as far as I have been able to read the committee position, and in particular by listening to the debate today, it is quite clear that the Progress Party has a completely different understanding of this than the other parties included in the majority in the committee position. For as far as I can understand, the representative Carl I. Hagen bases an extremely radical understanding of the obligation to provide information – an understanding that he himself has helped to distance himself from in the unanimous committee position I referred to, and which he implicitly takes away from through that proposal for the constitutional provisions on the obligation to provide information he has co-signed. It has often been said in this room that the Storting knows only the Council of State. Today, it seems that some people need to know a lot more than the Council of State, even anonymous authors of concepts for letters that have not been sent. Then the understanding of the control task of Storting starts to become fairly wide and unbounded. When I am concerned about this, it is because I believe that if this understanding of the information obligation were to be taken into account, and one should require a government council – as was said by Carl I. Hagen earlier today – to automatically send over to Stortinget's internal correspondence, the future relationship between corruption and government will definitely be shattered. In that case, Stortinget will not be able to carry out its control task. It will be the simplest matter for a Council of State to discharge its responsibility by saying that one has automatically sent copies of any correspondence, and then it has suddenly become the responsibility of the Storting. This is the way to go if one is to definitely destroy the understanding of constitutional responsibility and also the understanding of the task of control of the Storting. I assume that the Roman number point in the setting from the committee number dealing with this is to understand in accordance with the position of the Frøiland Committee and the underlying constitutional proposal. So the second point, II: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the National Audit Office to present a separate case to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible for a review of the 2004 accounts of the Ministry of Defence.’ In the same process that I have referred to, it is clear that the Storting does not want to instruct the Riksrevision on how the Riksrevision will fulfill its task. I also assume that this proposal is such as to understand that the Stortinget does not mean to oblige the Riksrevision to do urgent work or less thorough work than the Riksrevision is obliged to do in general. Here too, the lines of responsibility must be quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e833	It is clear to everyone that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has this debate. I also take it for granted that it has been clarified clearly enough that the Council of State and an approximate aggregate increase are very serious about this matter, so that the fines that have been carried out so far are sufficient in relation to the seriousness of the matter. As a defence policy spokesman, I therefore want to use my post to talk a little about the defence's concerns in this matter. The development of the 1990s, with an increasing imbalance between resources and tasks, made the need for the conversion of defence clear. If the defense had remained in the same track, it would have ended up paying only wages in a short time, without having a single penny for other operations and investments. In St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 from the then State Council Bjørn Tore Godal, it is therefore also quite clear that the defence is in a deep and sustained imbalance that requires transformations. I therefore want to go a little further back. My first condition with Stortinget was the treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93. Then Stortinget decided that we would have a crew reduction of 6,000 men in the defense. The current Council of State Godal stated in that St.prp. No 45 that this mission from Stortinget with respect to reporting was not a serious task. By the time we reached 2001–02, only one third of the crewing target that the Stortinget had ordered the government and the defence to implement had been achieved. And not enough of that, the little manning reduction you'd been given, it applied to structure. Thus, practically nothing had been done when it came to what might have been at least as important, namely the other bodies that should ‘serve’ the organisation that should, however, be the primary goal of the defence. I would like to say this in this way that I do not at all ignore the fact that it was more comfortable at the time to be able to manage an increasingly smaller structure with the same staff as it had before, which meant that the wage costs in the Defence Department in 2000–2001 were higher than they were when the Stortinget decided to demand deboarding so many years earlier. The point of this is that there was a greater risk, if you wanted to take the Storting seriously, by not converting than by converting. I assume, as a matter of course, that the Storting was also aware of, with the past you had with the kind of decision, that this led to risk. But the point is that, with an unchanged course, within a few years, the defense would lead into such huge financial problems that we had in principle been in a defence that was economic bankruptcy. I am asking for an understanding that as a defence policy spokesman, I do not think there would have been a favourable situation, even if the accounts were to be kept in a perfect way. That's why there was no real alternative to radical conversion. But the risk, yes, it was there. That's why it's nice that we now see a number of positive signs of conversion, especially in terms of improved operational capability. It is worth noting that the former Chief of Defense Sigurd Frisvold sums up the transition so far that it has been successful in all respects. And we have done this at the same time that the defense has paid for its own operations this time. Earlier, when we had far larger budgets, and there was a larger structure of all areas, a substantial part of the defence operations was paid by our ally friends, primarily by the Americans and by NATO's infrastructure fund. It has been documented that the transition has had some costs that we distance ourselves from, and that the Minister of Defence, not least, deeply regrets, but it has also had some results that are very encouraging in relation to the tasks facing the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e848	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e851	I ask for the word again because there were a few things I did not include in my main post, and also because I did not then know the proposals of the Progress Party. Let me first say that when we now face significant changes in the defence – an organisational change and also the clearing-up work in relation to what we have discussed today – we got at the hearing an understanding that the relationship between the trust-elected and the trust-elected organisations and the Defence Management could be better. I think that's one of the things that you definitely have to deal with, because I think it would be impossible for the government council and her close staff to get to anything if you don't have employees' organisations on the team. So if there is a culture or a way of dealing with these organisations that is not very appropriate, I suggest that the Council of State itself look at it and get it in place. Then there is a little mention of the obligation to provide information, and a letter of 18 November 2003 is referred to. The gap between the obligation to provide information, the obligation imposed by the Constitution, and what it is wise to keep the Stortning constantly informed, I will not try to do. But it's enough that the Storting, as you say, knows only the Council of State. Sometimes someone claims they don't even know the council. But so say, among other things. No pay here that it may also be that you get a desire to know more. Yes, this is the wish when the Storting gradually does not feel sufficiently orientated. So it must be in the interest of the various Councils to ensure that the Storting is constantly well informed. This does not mean that the Council of State does not present its options on its own merits. But when there are things that can affect Storting's assessment of a matter, it is wise that Stortingen gets it along with. Finally, if I go over time, the President will forgive me, for this is an explanation of vote. It is nothing new after the Committee has examined and given its opinion on this matter. We were familiar with all the facts on which the Progress Party bases its proposal here today. The proposals we are promoting in this matter are very serious, they are very strong decisions, and we are now waiting with excitement, I would have almost said, on the Government's ability and willingness to follow up these decisions. That is why we do not support the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e862	I have a small remark for the Engebretsen at the end here. He refers to the strong and sometimes powerful comments that have been made in the settings, but he does not take the consequences. I think that's strange. That's what the Progress Party is doing. We take the consequences of the very strong comments that have been made in the committee position, and that has been part of what has triggered our distrust proposal. Yeah, there's one of the strongest things we've ever seen on the Stortinget, like Carl I. Hagen was inside, and I think it's amazing that no other party takes the consequences. So they're introducing extraordinarily strong comments, but they don't mean anything about it. That's what the other thing has to think when no one's grasping at just that. That's what we're doing, and we think other parties are showing infallibility by not taking the consequences of what they're saying, and what they mean. What finally triggered the motion of censure was, as Carl I. Hagen was in it, the strong provocation that emerged. It has been mentioned in the comments that if a new general inspector and a new head of the FLO are appointed, it is considered by the Progress Party to be a provocation. The signals may have been given to both the Government and the Council of State in the past, but they have therefore chosen not to take it into account, which we think is remarkable. There is nothing wrong with saying about the new inspector-general. The little thing I know about him, I think is just positive. It has nothing to do with it, but it is the case and the procedure itself. This has been a long process – a long process in which I, not least, have been critical of the Council of State. I have mentioned several times that because of individual matters she should take the consequences of what she has said and intended. So she didn't do it. She hasn't taken the signals. That is why we must now say that enough is enough. We have, as has been mentioned earlier here, the serious objections and remarks to the 2002 accounts, we have not approved 2003, we have an over-consumption of approx. One billion dollars in 2004, and we have signals that if we don't tighten up now, it's going to be equally wrong in 2005. There has been a long-standing situation. I can ram up all the things that at least I, and others, have criticized earlier. We can only mention belt wagons, the Navy of the dock, bad information for Stortinget etc. All of this is in itself individual things that should have triggered a mistrust proposal. Governments have also tended to appoint scapegoats, as it has been said. We think that's unbearable. I want to mention just one last word: Golf. I look with horror at what's going to happen later in the Gulf - great exceedances. We have something to enjoy. And not least, we should have taken into account our mistrust proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e876	The representative, Inge Wohnning, made a statement that there should be no agreement between the views I have taken in the sample that looked at Storting's control of the administration, and what I am in this setting. I disagree. There was no documentation of the light-winding claims from Inge Wohnningen either. With regard to this failure in the full and satisfactory execution of the information obligation, I would like to draw the attention of Inge Wohnning to pages 33 and 34 of the position, where the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left, are just going through and quoting from the report of the Frøiland Committee, explaining that a general rule should be: ‘In so far as the government has professional judgements of clear relevance to the matter, this must be stated, even where the assessments do not support the government’s own views.’; The letter of 18 November 2003, from the Defence Staff, is also not what Inge Wohnning spoke about, an internal correspondence. There is a correspondence between the Foreign Office, the Defence Staff, and the Ministry of Defence at the Council of State. And that's exactly the correspondence and contact, from the external department to the ministry, which should be traceable, which should be publicly available and which should be the basis for the later monitoring of the Stortinge. I would also like to draw the representative's attention to page 34 of the vote, at the bottom of the first column. It concerns the obligation to provide information, and I allow myself to quote: ‘The majority refers to Kåre Willoch’s opinion during the Grotinget’s treatment of the Crotale case in which he asserted that: ‘The first precondition for this cooperation between the magnificence and the government to function as best as possible is that the Stortinget can trust that the Government does not conceal anything of importance to the work of the Stortinge.’» [[Tid.S 1972-73, p. 3742, p. 2]] The majority then concludes in its comment: ‘The majority subscribe to this assessment and note that the Council of State in this case should have made the objections of the defence management known to the Stortinge.’ So it's not just the Progress Party and I who come up with these points of view on disclosure, it's the majority of the Committee and the majority of the Biggest. Inge Wohnung also mentioned that he hoped that the Riksrevision would not do any urgent work on the implementation of Roman numeral II. Here again I would like to refer to my main post, where I said that I assume that the Riksrevision normally does a thorough and good job in connection with this. No one has talked about doing any urgent work. There has been a lot of work done in the Defence Department in connection with the conversion, and there is no need for the Riksrevision to follow in the footsteps of the Defence and Defence Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e904	I guess I'll take the word just to prolong the debate, I'll now! The size can determine a lot. But if the Stortinget makes a decision that the Riksrevision is going to do a hasty job, I think we're going to cut rocks. It's definitely not meant to be, and it wouldn't have led to that either. The reason I'm asking for the floor is that I want to try to answer the representative, Width, who thought I was an uninvited person. I understood Carl I. Hagen in his main post here today, that when we dealt with this matter, and when we gave the setting about it, the glass was full. There was no room for any more there. And I think that Carl I. Hagen also gave us reasonable signals that it could go this way in his party gradually, so this came in and apart not as a shock to me today. But when the glass was then absolutely full, there is something that has caused it to run over afterwards. With regard to the accounts, what is now there, we agree on the strong proposals for decisions we now have. It's a straightforward reaction to that. But then something has happened afterwards that makes the Progress Party come up with this proposal. As far as I can understand, it is a matter of relationships that relate to the 2004 exceedances, and we have not yet received that case from Stortinget. If it were to be so that the Storting should have some opinion about the personnel policy and the handling of it in the Defence and other government agencies, it had to be after we had such a case on the table. That's why I think -- I've been trying to answer Width -- that we're not so very inevitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e917	I am pleased that it has been confirmed both by the representative Hagen and by the case rapporteur, Mr Engretsen, that the understanding of Roman numeral II that I outlined is correct, and that it has not been intended to instigate any new practice that goes beyond the boundaries of the Frøiland Committee, namely that the Stortinget can request or instruct the Riksrevision that a case should be given priority, but it cannot give any kind of instruction on the way in which the Riksrevision should discharge its responsibilities when dealing with the matter. That's good. Then I must say that I heard a significant difference between the defence spokesman of the Progressive Party, Mr. Width, said, and what Carl I. Hagen said. As far as I understood the defence spokesman, the Progress Party has always read its own comments in the committee position so that they could only turn into one thing: a motion of censure. It's neat and all right. But then the explanation that has been given is that the motion of censure first came to the table today, after a bit of staged dramaturgy from the side of the big crowd. That explanation then falls away. Because if it is critical that the majority in the committee has not drawn the consequence of what has been written in the vote, the Progress Party must have always been of the opinion that the setting could only turn into one thing. The Frøiland Committee has made it clear that the decision-making process – it is an old-fashioned expression, but we did not find anything better – is nothing but a mistrust proposal, and that the Stortinge can deliberately choose either one or the other. The essential part of the majority fraction in the Committee has clarified that they have deliberately chosen the category ‘noodles’ and have removed the category ‘misstillitis’. The party of progress has made it clear that they have done the opposite. I must be allowed to say that it is a step forward when the Progress Party, which has repeatedly declared its lack of confidence in a council outside this Chamber, even in the room nearest to the Chamber, at least then it takes a bit of consistency to express it here in the Chamber, where it belongs. It's a little progress in propriety.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e926	Following on from what Inge Wohnning said, I can only congratulate the representative Per Ove Width. He has got his party on the mistrust of the state council that he himself has provided at regular intervals both in radio and in other contexts. So that case is now also formally in place. I understand – to repeat myself – that this has been the debate of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and that they have done their duty in relation to the reading of the National Audit Office's notes, but I do not agree with the fact that we must also try to safeguard the defence interests in this debate. In relation to the possible exceedances on the Gulf, Per Ove Wideth allows himself to say, 'We have something to rejoice at.' It is a joy that is not shared by the undersigned. I think we should now take the opportunity to think a little bit about the impact of the massive criticism not of the lack of procedures and accounting systems, but the general, massive criticism directed at the Defense has on those of the Defence Forces who have implemented the imposed imposed by the Storting, which was not made in connection with the previous long-term message to which I referred, from 1992-93. I understand that for many, organizations and others, it was more comfortable when the management, staff and support functions remained unchanged, while the crews and structures were to be cut down, but it would have been, as pointed out by the then Councillor Godal, with considerable support from an almost total collapse, de facto having led to a bankruptcy – today it would have been bankruptcy. I have to be allowed to repeat: I don't think that would have been a happy development, even though the accounts should have been kept in the most pertrusive way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e937	I would like to challenge the Progress Party on the following: today, therefore, we are dealing with the 2003 accounts, which have resulted in comments where the Progress Party is not in favour of mistrust. So the situation arises that the Progress Party suddenly finds out that the removal of Inspector General Ssilvberg and FLO Director Hernes is the drop that makes the whole desire run over. But it happened last week and was about the exceedances in the defense in 2004. Then we have the comments of the Progress Party that go further but that do not conclude. It turns out that this is operating with different objectives. So, here's to Nerves. As I see it, Herrnæs says that the massive criticism has to wane, because it is destructive to the Defense, and there has, after all, been a broad consensus in the Storting on the process of conversion. Yes, I'd love to! The massive criticism should wane, but the Stortinget has never asked the Ministry to produce accounts that are not approved. That is what is actually at issue today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e944	Now, soon most of the people present in the Chamber have had the word at least twice, so the president expects the debate to ebb out on this – almost.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e947	We'll see! The representative Hernæs said that the defence, and to the extent the ministry, only follows that imposed on the Stortinget. But who has given the Storting these advice? It is the Ministry's defence, so this must take full responsibility for it. When I mentioned Golf, and said that we can enjoy it, it was of course ironic. That's what I thought Hernæs had understood, after we've had a lot of conversations. But he obviously didn't do that, so I get to speak more clearly another time. With regard to the defence employees, I fully agree. All the criticisms that arise are not a delight to the defence staff, and not a delight to the reputation of the defence, rather a pleasure to the contrary. But you have to be able to come up with criticism in order to fix this. After all, it is not us and the Stortinget that put this on the defense and the defence staff. It's the department that's done it. It's the government council that's done it. This is part of the basis we have for promoting mistrust proposals. There has been a long distance between measures and means in terms of defence. That must now take the consequences of Stortingen. It must be the consequence of which the Ministry and the Council of State must take. The situation would have been completely different if the Storting had taken into account the alternative budget of the Advance Party, where we have always added at least NOK 1 billion. The billion that is now suddenly missing for 2004, we have actually entered into our own budget. Had Stortinget been involved in this, we might have escaped much of the debate today. Who knows? But anyway, we can't take responsibility for the fact that the Council and the Department don't do their job, simply by giving us bad information here at Stortinget, bad advice that we then follow, because we're not the department. We are representatives of Storting. We trust what comes from the professionals. But here we've been making some serious mistakes in terms of the Department and the Council of State for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e965	A few minutes ago, the representative Hernæs’ speech was a rather remarkable attempt to sum up the debate. I think it is necessary at the end of the debate to conclude that this is an account for 2003 which has not been approved by the Riksrevision. It's about a Council of State, a Right and a government that's gradually having a very low trust in this room related to the further development of Defence. These convulsive attempts to try to make it a problem for those who participate in an important and sincere debate on the future of defence, and who do not necessarily tidy and bend their heads and do not say a joke, must not try! It is clear that we must be allowed to have an open debate on the further conversion of the defence and what miscuts have been made in the process of conversion, without the responsibility for what is the reputation and trust of the defence. It's the Defense Sea, and it's the Government, who now manages the reputation and trust of the Defense. The big question is also after this debate how they intend to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e974	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1970]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e990	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e999	I just want to mention briefly that we are now dealing with an attitude that has received a procedure that at least I have not been in the past for 12 years at Stortinget. It was issued without the committee having time to wait for the answers to the questions it had asked itself to the ministry. So you can see that the questioning was considerably greater than the interest in the answers. It was also given without the case rapporteur being present, and even against the rapporteur's explicit recommendation that it should not be given at that time. I will leave it to the majority of the committee to explain its position. The members of the government parties believe that in relation to previous decisions in the Stortinget it is to transform the workshops into one or more limited liability companies a good way to deal with these problems. We therefore recommend that the proposal of Marit Nybakk, Gunnar Halvorsen, Rita Tveiten, Grethe Fossli and Torny Pedersen to group the defence workshops in Ramsund, Bjerkvik, Haakonsvern, Horten, Kjeller and Trandum into one management company with special powers and not split the division into six companies be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1008	This matter concerns the workshops in the defence that are responsible for the heavy maintenance of all arms. In total, there are six workshops. It is in Ramsund, in Bjerkvik, in Haakonsvern, in Trandum, in Kjeller, and in Horten. These six workshops were decided by decision of December 2003 under a joint division of the Defence Logistics Organisation, called FLO/Tongt Maintenance, or FLO/TV, if you wish. There have been a variety of perceptions in the process of organising the FLO/TV division, which type of company this division should have. The Defence Manager’s military professional investigation proposed that heavy maintenance be grouped in a single administrative body with special powers from January 2006 with the objective of a single full-time public limited-liability company during 2008. The management body is in line with the wishes of the employees’ organisations and also in line with the proposed document. It's still unclear what the department at the seventh and last comes to. In St. prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 the Government proposed a State limited liability company. Afterwards, I have understood that the division is now planned to be divided into smaller legal units, most private limited liability companies. A workshop may also become a management company, a couple may be laid down. One of them that I have understood will be laid down according to the department or the management of FLO/Tungt maintenance, is Horten. In a letter dated 28 January 2005 from the Minister of Defence to the Defence Committee, it is underlined that the Ministry ‘aims to return to the Stortinge on the occasion of the case during the autumn of 2005’. Therefore, the number of committees finds that it is not possible to deal with the matter now, and instead they will await final treatment of the form of organisation of the FLO/TV until the Storting gets the case from the Government until the autumn. The Committee considers that the six workshops in this process and in the meantime will be maintained and given the necessary mandate to ensure the operation until final organisational clarification has been addressed by the Stortinget in the autumn of 2005. Can I just add that emergency considerations mean that the competence of the heavy workshops in the Defence must be preserved, and that it must be included in the course of our journey, for example. do not put us in the situation where heavy maintenance of Norwegian fighter aircraft and helicopters in their entirety is to be carried out by non-resident private companies. This does not mean, of course, that we cannot allow parts of the maintenance to go to supplier companies. I would like, among other things: indicate that the new NH-90 helicopters are to be maintained by the supplier for the first five years, which is the Eurocopter company. This is under the contract entered into. We're not really dealing with the type of company itself, but we're now waiting for the matter that comes from the department. It is then important to maintain the competence of the workshops and to give these workshops the tasks necessary for them to continue to live until final bottling. With this, I would recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1034	Because the Progress Party has basically been very simple, and I think it's simple in itself. I don't understand that we need to complicate it. It says, among other things: in the setting: ‘The size will receive at a later stage a separate case on the further development of FLO/TV, but the process does not indicate that the solution promoted will be satisfactory.’ We don't know anything about that. And on the other hand, «The proposers do not consider it appropriate for the FLO/TV to be removed from the defence structure and converted into one or more limited liability companies to be subsequently transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade for full privatisation.» We don't know anything about that either. We will discuss this at a later stage when we get this case sent to Stortinget for the autumn in the form of a proposition. What most of the parties here agree on is that we have to wait for this and see what we get for treatment, and in the meantime let these workshops be viable, so don't take from them any jobs or competences. We have received many signals from these workshops that indicate that there is a downfall that we absolutely cannot accept until something is finally decided in the form of the proposition coming to the harvest. There is a lot of competence in these workshops. There are important jobs, and therefore it is important that we take time to look at this, and therefore I think the proposals for Decision I are very good and explainative. It simply says: ‘The six workshops related to Division Heavy Maintenance in the Defence Logistics Organisation are maintained and given the necessary tasks to ensure the operation of the workshops until final organisational clearance has been dealt with in the Stortinget.’ The council has previously signaled that she will come back to the Storting with this, and we think that is a nice and nice solution, so that we don't need today, I think, to go in the depths of this, but simply can agree that we maintain them as they are, until we get the proposition to the harvest. Then we take the debate, and then we have to decide what type of company etc. We're going to have to. But we're not doing anything with that per. Today, and therefore, as I said, I think we should just wait for the signaled proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1058	Let me begin by pointing out that the submission of the opinion of the Defence Committee to this private proposal must be said to be very special. I refer you to the rapporteur's statement, which includes: was concerned that you could not wait for answers from the department. Unfortunately, it is not just the circumstances surrounding the committee's delivery that may give rise to concern. The majority of the proposals for decisions to maintain the six workshops and to give them the necessary tasks to ensure the operation of workshops until final organisational clarification is dealt with in the Storting. Governments have made it clear that a separate case on the further conversion of FLO/Tungt maintenance will be submitted to Stortinget during the autumn of 2005. The FLO is working on explosions to arrive at good solutions and recommendations for organisational form. We should respect this work, and then I would like to reiterate that the defence should look at how internal processes are handled in public space, plus that the entire defence understands and relates to political processes in order to get a clean treatment and avoid ‘vote’ leading to such urgent decisions as this setting is actually an example. I shall confine myself to these comments in addition to repeating our proposal to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1067	I just need to clarify a couple of things. The decision taken today by the Stortinget is quite simple. The decision today is simply taken that none of the technical workshops should be closed until the Stortinget has had an overall examination of this matter. This means that none of the workshops are to be demolished for tasks or tasks; none of the workshops are to be demolished in practice – none of the workshops are to be dismantled as a workshop until the Storting has had the matter under consideration. The only thing required by the Government is that you start with the job that some of us asked for in the previous case, namely that you de facto show the necessary respect for the decisions that Stortinget makes. Nothing less, nothing more. Neither Horten nor Ramsund shall, at the time the Stortinget deals with this matter, be halfway closed, halfway understaffed, or have half as many assignments as they would normally have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1076	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1971]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1096	After the fall of the wall we started reforming the defense, and there has been a lot of talk about here before today. We were supposed to reorganize the defense adapted to the new security environment. We got the Stoltenberg government's proposal in the spring of 2001. As a result, a number of defence facilities were closed down, reasonably enough. Fortresses were removed. A few fortifications, such as Bergenhus, Kongsvinger and Alta, were taken over by the Home Guard. The question was, in parallel with this, how historic properties, such as fortifications, were to be further managed. The concern expressed by a unanimous majority was expressed as early as June 2001 through Innst. S. No 314 for 2000-2001: ‘The government is asking for different arrangements for the organisation of ownership and management of properties, buildings and structures of historical value. The Government is requested to pay particular attention in the investigation to assessing the establishment of a national fund in line with the National Trust as organised in the United States and the United Kingdom.’ As far as I can see, the government has not yet done this. The size has at least not received a case, and the timer is now about to run out. Let me add that, following this decision, the Defence Committee has been within cultural historical facilities in almost every given position, in addition to the fact that the Workers' Party has presented two Document No. Eight proposals, both of which have been approved unanimously. Int. S. No 196 for 2002-2003 asks the Government to re-submit proposals on the management of fortifications decided on out of military use in a Roman decision. It has not yet happened, despite the fact that it is now four years since Stortinget asked for this matter for the first time. The main challenges of national fastening plants are to facilitate worthy alternative uses, a post-use that ensures respect both for the properties and for the historical events they represent. Our national landmarks must be maintained, with the historical ballast they carry, and in such a way that we avoid commercial exploitation without an ethical framework. In Drøbaksundet is one of Norway's most famous fortifications, namely Oscarsborg. Oscarsborg robs in Norway's history like hardly any other castle or any other memorial. The lowering of «Blücher» night until 9 April 1940 delayed the German occupation and ensured that the King, Government and Stortinget got away from the capital. As a fortress, Oscarsborg is over 150 years old. Nevertheless, Kaholmene, where Oscarsborg is located, has a significantly longer history as a defense firm. As far back as the 1600s, there was a defense facility here as a forward-looking line to protect Kristania. The fort stood against the 300 or so bombs that fell over Oscarsborg in the hours after the "Blücher" went down. It was human remorselessness that was breaking the defence-historical memorial. It was in time after the examination of the first major defence reform, in June 2001. There was a good portion of self-criticism on the part of Stortinget, because the decay was striking after the split flag was celebrated, and the military presence disappeared. In addition, there were dangerous signals about the commercialisation of the site by Defence Building. Therefore, the previously mentioned private proposal came. The proposal was unanimously adopted on 8 May 2003 – an appropriate date – and split the flag again today across Oscarsborg. However, we have recently received some disturbing signals about the drag struggle that has been about the organisation of the private business to be established at Oscarsborg within dignity and ethical framework. I would like to ask the State Council to explain what has happened between Defence Buildings and the Reserve Officers. Several of our fortifications represent historic milestones, where our country's fate has been determined. We therefore have to treat these national monuments with respect and should not do anything that, in the worst case, can be seen as an event, an uncontrolled commercial exploitation. A little at random I discovered Friday before Easter that we had received St.meld. No 16 for 2004-2005, Life with cultural memories, from the Ministry of Environment. Here the Defence is mentioned in Chapter 5 State ownership, related to cultural memories. Although the Communication indicates that there is ‘a work in progress to establish a common platform for the government’s management of its own cultural memories’, we see that the work on guidelines for defence-related cultural memories is drawing out. It further states that ‘the Government intends to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the organisation of property management during 2005’. Does this also apply to the national fastening plants? I'm just asking. In St.meld. No 16 says – and here's something I don't quite understand, at least it's something the Storting is not informed about, and not the Defence Committee at all – that there's a unit in Change Property called, yes, the National Fortress. This requires an explanation. Change Property is a project within Defence Building, i.e. not a legal entity of its own, a new name for the previous disposal project. Why does the Ministry of Defence set up a new unit for national fastening plants in a project to be closed when the excess properties of the defence have been sold? Why was this solution chosen before government and staging take a decision on the management of the fortifications? Why do we read about this organisation of one of the underlying agencies of the Defence Agency in an information box in an environmental protection magnificence message? It also appears that the entity National Fortresses in Change Property should have an active role in designing the future activities of the fortifications. If that's right, are we talking about a government entity that's far more active than the state's trustee? If so, why is the Storting not informed about this matter, so that the lifetime of the unit does not depend on the limited lifetime of the Change Property project, but is made a more permanent solution to which the Storting has agreed? Is it also true, as I've been told, that National Fortress is a separate legal entity with the right to sign agreements, i.e. an underlying office of a project under Defence Building – the three-point is this, when we talk about these Chinese boxes here? The fact that the Ministry of Defence could have obtained political support from the Stortinget and thus avoided controversial situations should probably also be added. Without major treatment, the fall height of the department is greater, and I find it regrettable if the competence associated with the administration of the national defence agencies would be confused by the phasing out of the Shift Property. I believe that it is best for the State, as in many ways it is doing new work here, to take care of the total responsibility for the building mass in the fastening works, and not to leave this to any partner, which could probably also strengthen the necessary and desirable connection between the use of the individual fastening and the historic anchoring of the fastening plant. Finally, in the first round, not everything can be commercialised. I do not think even the most thought-out market librarian would find it particularly opportunistic or relevant to suggest Akershu's fastening sold to a hotel chain. It has a great location and could certainly collect a lot of money, but that's not the kind of development we want. And then the question is, where do we draw the limit? Many of us have been to Warwick Castle in England, a castle and a residence in Warwick which is purchased by the Madame Tussaud group and turned into a very lively museum on a commercial basis, and which works very well. Shakespeare's birthplace in Stratford-Upon-Avon, just a few kilometers away, has become a reinvigorated business. As Shakespeare's enthusiast, I must say that I think the place is quite terrible, while, of course, it provides good information about the author and his time, and certainly is important for school classes and students. But it's the delimitation here and what ethical frameworks we set for the use of this kind of cultural memories and fortifications with both cultural and military historical bases, we really have to think thoroughly through.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1141	The defence has had its own cultural memory management since 1995, established as an advisory unit in Defence Building from 2002. This own cultural memory management has unique knowledge and experience related to military cultural memories. In 2002, responsibility for the property to be used by the Defence was transferred to the project Shifte Eiendom. With this building mass, the national fastenings that were mainly no longer to be used in military use were included. In June 2002, National Fortresses were established as a separate entity within Change Property, responsible for managing, maintaining and developing the national fortifications which Stortinget has decided to continue to own. Defence buildings are entrusted with the task of pooling cultural memory management tasks and functions together with the management of national fastening plants. Defence construction thus strengthens cultural historical competence by bringing the National Fortress Works unit together with the Cultural Memory Advice Unit in Defence Buildings from 1 June 2005. National Fortresses shall preserve the fortifications as cultural memories by developing them into sought-after arenas for culture, nutrition and experiences. Based on the peculiarity and history of the fortifications, National Fortifications shall facilitate the creation of good experiences and new opportunities for the fortifications. It shall be in interaction between public and private actors and tenants. Since June 2002, there has been work to establish new activities on the fasteners and to provide a basis for future use and development. In 2004, we saw good results from this work, due to close cooperation with local authorities, private actors and public administrations. The challenge is to find users who can contribute to the viability of fastening plants through self-funded solutions. Experience from the Oscarsborg fortress shows that it is possible to combine protection and business and that there is a potential to use cultural memories to create new activity and to increase the value creation of the community. The unit of National Fortresses in Defence Buildings has the ambition to build a brand for the positive use of the fortifications. In 2004, the fortifications had a significant visit — a total of 1.25 million people — and Akershu’s fixation was held out of the calculations. The fortifications represent valuable recreational areas of the communities. Cooperation has therefore been established with central protection and open-air organisations, such as the Oslofjord Free Air Council, which actively contribute to the development process. In cooperation with the municipalities, movement restrictions have been adopted for those areas where it is necessary to protect natural and cultural memory values. This helps to maintain the areas as attractive visits. Based on experience from, inter alia: Oscarsborg fortification has developed a new organisational model for the management and development of the fortifications. National Fortresses have established a local attachment management on each attachment. National Fortresses enter into direct rental, use and licensing agreements with tenants, organisers and suppliers on each attachment on behalf of Defence Building. Each lessee, organiser or supplier is responsible for the commercial operation against the market. Their offers and products shall be in accordance with the leadership of the fastening management and shall be defined in the agreements with the National Fortresses. In addition, tenants, organisers and suppliers of the fastenings are obliged by their agreement with National Fortresses to participate in a fastening association. The Fortress Associations have coordinating responsibilities in relation to product development, marketing, sales and ordering. The Fortress Association has a board of directors and statutes governing its economy and tasks. The income of the individual fastening societies is mainly made up of contributions from members and shall cover its own costs. The municipality, county and other important cooperation partners are gathered in a trade union council to be supporters of the fortress management and to contribute to local anchoring. In order to create economic conditions for managing complex and complex cultural environments during the fastenings, National Fortresses shall contribute to the development of concepts that can generate income. For 2005, the development work will be concentrated on the three fortresses of Oscarsborg, Fredriksten and Kristiansten. Since Stortinget has had a special focus on the Oscarsborg fortress, I will mention some experiences from here. Among other things, Defence Building has surveyed the economic repercussions of the development work at Oscarsborg, with a total of 27.6 million. kr through various events have been fed to the community around the fortification. It has been an important issue to open the fortification to new audiences through positive activities and good organisation. Oscarsborg may refer to nearly 80 000 visitors in 2004, of which 50 000 during a hectic summer season. In this connection, a user satisfaction study has been carried out, where nine out of ten visitors said they were satisfied or very satisfied with the visit to the attachment. In summary, I would say that the conversion of the Defense provides a unique opportunity to bring important historical national denominations like the fortifications from military to civil use. The location and history make the fortifications unique, with a potential for value creation and recreation for local environments and travellers. As with other cultural memory managers, defence has also had challenges in terms of executive management. Protection plan and condition report work has revealed significant delays in maintenance. There is therefore a need for predictability and long-termity in further efforts to manage the fastenings in a good manner. This is the prerequisite for preserving the facilities for later success in creating long-term economic sustainability through tourism and new uses. As regards the part of the question that concerns the future management of our national fastening plants, I would point out that this sort of thing is under the constitutional territory of another state council. The Minister for Modernisation has in St. prp. No 1 for 2004-2005, on the budget of the Ministry of Modernisation, briefed that work has been undertaken on a comprehensive review and assessment of the country’s overall management of construction and property with a view to making changes that would provide optimum management. In this review, consideration of the country’s cultural-historical properties and questions about any own organisation of this type of property will also be considered. The Ministry of Modernisation has chaired a working group to investigate this and is now in a final phase. The Ministry of Modernisation has stated that the Government intends to return to the Storting with the property management during 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1192	The Council of State has now confirmed that the management of fastening plants was initially transferred to Shifte Eiendom, as I know, to operate exclusively with the disposal of defence facilities. I then assume that they are not supposed to dispose of these fasteners, and that they are at least running and investigating and working with alternative uses within the necessary ethical framework. Then I have understood that it is also true that a relatively long time ago a under-use of Change Property was created called National Fortress. I would like to ask again why this could not have been submitted to Stortinget as a matter. It is still the case, also for the Ministry of Defence and Defence, that legitimacy is also achieved politically by presenting matters for treatment in the United Kingdom. But sometimes you can get the impression that the Ministry of Defence has a refusal to present matters for treatment for the Stortinget. Here we could probably have a unanimous decision on how this should be done. I understand that National Fortresses will help create brands for these fastening plants and, if necessary, commercialise them. I would also like to repeat the question from my main post about the kind of disagreement that occurred at Oscarsborg in connection with the fact that, in addition to the introduction of a new commander and military presence, one would also have an ethically sound private business alongside, especially related to the part of Oscarsborg that was formerly a commanding school in Defense. I have understood that the Norwegian Reserve Officers' Association received a tender for this, but there has been some disagreement. How is this managed today? I have also recorded that it has been successful what has been at Oscarsborg with 80,000 visitors in 2004, and you are probably waiting for a new summer season. Then the Council of State confirms what may be the main problem here, that the Ministry of Modernization – or the old Ministry of Labour and Administration, it was well – has been sitting and having the fortresses inside as part of the work they are doing on the country's cultural-historical properties. I believe, however, that this should not prevent the Ministry of Defence from presenting cases to the Stortinget in making major changes and taking the kind of initiative that has obviously been done by adding the administration first to Change Property and then establishing National Fortress.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1207	I just want to confirm that the interpellant's intentions and interest in the fastening works are in line with that of the Ministry of Defence. Of course, it is also correct, as the interpellant asks questions, that the national fastening plants should not be sold, even if they are per. Today is organized as a unit in Shifte Eiendom. The situation was that all the property that was to be transferred out of the use of the Defense was transferred to Change Property. But it's not all the property that was supposed to be sold out of the defense's use. The national fastening plants have decided in Stortinget that the state should continue to own, and I am very positive about that. Thus, in June 2002, the National Fortress Office was established as a separate unit within Change Property. As I also had in my main post, one of the intentions was to bring together the cultural management competence that existed in other parts of Defence Buildings, and the competence that prevails here in relation to fastening management. The goal is just as the interpellant is about to open up for a positive use, so that this benefits as much as possible. I have no ambitions other than to inform the Storting in detail about everything you are concerned about in this context, and use this opportunity to provide the information that has been requested. I am pleased that the Ministry of Modernization comes forward with its announced case this year, so that some of the future clarifications that we are interested in getting in place can also be put in place, and then in agreement with the Stortinget. In the case of a completely concrete question from the interpellant related to the relationship between the reserve officers and the Defence Building, the topic of today’s interpellation is not directly addressed. I would therefore like to report that I would like to provide further information about it after obtaining more details from the department of Defence Building, and would like to return to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1218	I just want to point out the military key area of South Africa once was for the Norwegian defence. That's the protection of the historical relationship of this interpellation. One of the reasons for the strategic military significance of the South was that the main historical trail of ships went to the South or passed the South if the destination was Bergen or a point along the Oslofjord. In addition, the sailing trail in Skagerrak between the southernmost of Norway and the northernmost of Denmark has been the sailing area for all maritime traffic to the Baltic region, Poland and the capitals of Denmark, Sweden and Finland. This strategic location is probably due to the fact that Kristiansand was founded by King Christian IV of Denmark-Norway in 1641. Already at the end of the 1500s, the authorities wanted to establish a place of purchase on the Agder side to maintain control of trade. Another reason for the founding of Kristiansand was that Flekkerøj port was known as the fleet base for the Danish-Norwegian fleet. Christian IV therefore wanted to make Flekkerøy a central point on the Agder side of administration and defence. In 1666, Kristiansand was made a garrison town, and something later became a foundation city. These two events made the city grow, and there were fortifications such as: Christiansholm fortification in 1672. Out of other historical military areas, I will bring out Fredriksholm Fort, as a strategically located fast on an island just outside Møvik in the western gap. The fort was first built approx. 1660, but also the German occupying powers saw the strategic importance of this area. It was therefore further expanded by the Germans during World War II. Hitler's plan was with Møvik to block Skagerrak by means of heavy artillery. This was to happen by building up a battery on Møvik and a similar battery on Hanstholm in Denmark. These batteries would then cover the entire stretch of the sea, and one would, among other things. thus protecting the entrance to the Baltic Sea. Today, Møvik stands out to be the only facility in Norway where a 38 cm cannon is preserved, which was one of the largest cannon types used and made during World War II. Something strange is that at Møvik there is also a protection in the form of a cassette that was built. But there are several plants that are worth noting, and the name tells... I see, President, that time is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1233	Yeah, time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1236	Today’s interpellation on the management of fortifications and other buildings of cultural and military historical value is of great importance. The defense is in continuous conversion. That's why many buildings and areas where there was military activity are now vacant, and you don't know what to use them for. There are a lot of reasons to take care of, both finding a business that can throw something away economically, and, the more important, which preserves the buildings in such a way that our history is preserved. This is often a difficult combination, but not impossible if all instances are positive. In the local Glamdalen of 1 April of this year, it was stated in an article that Kongsvinger’s fastening from the harvest was to be used as a mosque and that it was suitable for such use with some alteration. I think there were a lot of people who got the morning coffee in the wrestler until we remembered it was April 1st. But this or equivalent 1 April ghost can become a truth if we don't take our responsibility seriously and use the means needed to precisely facilitate a business that doesn't break too much with what we want to preserve. The party responsible for progress has previously taken this responsibility and has seen the importance of doing something. Among other things, we have put forward a proposal ‘establishing a trust for the preservation of fortresses and other military-historical buildings’. It was promised by the Minister of Labour and Administration that this matter would return to Stortinget as soon as possible. This shows that the matter is of the utmost importance. There is also ongoing work between the Defence and Environmental Protection Authorities on the identification and assessment of the properties of high cultural significance, importance for nature protection and open-air opportunities for the general public, as well as a land protection plan for cultural memories. Another important actor in this must be the Defence Museum. They have an enormous competence, which must be used to ensure good operation and an adapted commercial use of the buildings and areas that are and are gradually being affected. This is where Oscarsburg's fortification is mentioned, where it looks as if the new business has given positive experiences to many. But at the same time, we have to be careful not to contribute to an enterprise that is struggling too much on buildings and areas around, so that lasting values are lost. This type of building mass often also has a local historical and industrial connection. Local communities have a desire to maintain military activity as it has been for many years. When the Defense disappears, the people who have worked there often disappear, and the community gets back with fewer resource people and less tax revenue, but with a building mass it doesn't always see a new use of. That's why it's very important for these too that this building mass is used in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1251	Maintaining the fortresses as cultural memories by developing them into the sought-after arenas for culture, nutrition and experiences is important. It is necessary to identify alternative uses of fastenings that respect the history, tradition and culture they represent. That's why today's interpellation gives you an opportunity to focus on just this. Some of the attachments may still serve as a Defence Information and Recruitment Base. For many, the fortifications are valuable recreational areas in the community. Therefore, cooperation with, for example, open-air organisations is important. In many places we also have the friends of the Fortress, who can be said to be civil-military cooperation to take care of these important national klenodies. Oscarsborg, Fredriksten in Halden and Fredrikstad fortification, to mention someone, are such important labels. I must also mention the Kongswinger fastening, which is now in a process of change and during the fall of 2005 will lose most of the military business. The Home Guard will be sitting with a commandantship of three people. So now it's important to find new users. The United Nations veterans want inter alia: to place their course activities there, as they are part of Kongsvinger and Bäreia War disability homes are now sold. There are also others that may be relevant users of the fastening. It has, among other things, been an indication of course activity. Then you might have to look at Gyldenborg and consider whether it is part of the attachment, as the Riksantikvaren adds. For it is the building that has new, good facilities and the necessary technical equipment that a good place to complete the course and meet must have. The fort may also allow for overnight stays. When the Ministry of Modernization presents a case on property management, we are given a new opportunity to discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1266	First, I just want to mention, like the committee leader, that I was also very surprised when I discovered that it was something called the National Fortress. They must have done a bad job in relation to telling me who they are. But they have actually published some type, etc., which I suddenly came across, and what I discovered was that there were 14 people working there. I did not know that either, nor was it organized as a separate unit in Shifte Eiendom, which is another project in Defence Building. That's interesting information. It's also a very nice brochure that takes into account the most famous defenses we have in the country, and that's commendable. I've come to nine pieces, and they're all great – with Oscarsborg at the head, of course. On the front side, it says: ‘What was once most interesting for enemy forces is now to be a pleasant goal for the tourism industry. We can hardly imagine a more exciting challenge than helping to create experiences in places where there is historical sus." This is great. I think it's very good, but unfortunately I didn't know about it! So it's about time. Otherwise I have not intended to say so much in this matter, for very much has been said. And what I'm referring to above is essentially saying that we have somebody who takes care of it. But I would like to mention that this of taking care of defence facilities and historic defence facilities has actually appeared on the Stortinget since 1994. So it's been over ten years since it was first recorded. Int. S. No 314 for 2000-2001, which is the result of a Document No. Eight proposals that I myself took part in in 2001 say: «The Defence Committee examined in 1994 St.meld. No 54 [[1992-1993]] So it's taken some time, but nevertheless it's important to get back to it. In 2003, the representative Marit Nybakk, as chairman of the Defence Committee, wrote a letter to the Council of State for what is now called the Ministry of Modernisation, pointing out some important things. She got an answer, where it was, among other things. said that it is too early to say anything certain if any case can be submitted to Stortinget in addition to that there will be no case for this in the spring session. So this was in 2003. It is then a hope that in this spring session, after the matter has been on Stortinget for more than ten years, we can get a case on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1288	Ten years isn't that long!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1291	There is, of course, an interesting debate that has been brought up here today, and in my home country, Hordaland, there are several historic military facilities and fortifications that need to be taken care of. I will mention two: Bergenhus and Fjell fortification. Bergenhus fortress is located in Bergen and is one of the oldest fortifications in Norway. The area between what is called Holmen, and Sverresburg was built before the year 1200. For us from the area, it's hard to forget that Bergen was once the capital of Norway. It is important to have it with you when talking about these facilities. During the Second World War, Bergenhus was used by the Germans as a local headquarters, and from 1945, Bergenhus served as district command for the West. Today, it houses the district staff of the Hordaland District and parts of Sogn and Fjordane. I think that daily use may be the best form of protection. Another known western anchorage area is Mountain Fort on Mountain. The area is still in use by the Defence Agency, although the coastal fortress is no longer in day-to-day use. Once a year, Sotra and Eyegarden are planning to arrange an open day at the Mountain fastening. Many people are happy to do so, and they can thank the Defence Unit and all those who take part in the voluntary work of maintaining the fastening. The construction work at the Fjell fortification began in the autumn of 1942. There were over 2,000 men, prisoners of war from Russia, Poland and Serbia, working there. On the fastening, the Germans would have a radar and a long-drawing cannon. The gun that was installed had three runs and came from a battleship. The goal was for one to control the seals to Bergen. For the Germans, this was a very important facility, and nothing was saved. This is the most powerful fortress in Northern Europe. The facility covered the area from Fedje in the north to Stolmen in the south. The old canon tower at the Mountain fastening is about to become Sotra's new café. It was mentioned in the WestNews a few weeks ago. On 8 May, on the day 60 years after the Norwegian liberation from Nazi Germany, plan the Defence Union and the Mountain Municipality to complete the construction of the café at the top of the former cannon well. The goal is, of course, to get tourists to use this facility and travel out and see how amazing it is. I have pulled out these two installations in the west, Bergenhus and Fjell, because in each way they appear to be closed by the way to protect. Both Bergenhus, who is in day-to-day operation, and Fjell seem to be shut down by making this a kind of experience center.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1308	Just cards from the interpellant side. The debate has shown that there is also a great deal of local and local commitment to some of the fortresses and cultural-historical properties that the Defense has left, whether they are in Hedmark, Hordaland or Southland. That is the way it should be, and it is important that the community is involved in developing these properties and the historical monuments that are raging in history, and can do so in a real way. Åse Wisløff Nilssen stated that part of the fastening works could be sought out arenas for culture and nutrition. Yes, I agree, but within the ethical framework that I spent a lot of time talking about in my first post. I also agree with the Council of State that the reorganisation of the defence has actually provided unique opportunities for civil-military cooperation on the post-use of the fortifications, and that predictability and long-termity are necessary. Then we're going to hope that there'll be a firmer form of organization. In fact, I find reason to repeat what both the representative Width and I have said earlier in the debate, that there are quite clear decisions in the Stortinget, both in 1994, in 2001 and in 2003 – well – where the Government has been asked to investigate arrangements for the organisation of ownership and the management of fortifications and properties of historical value that have been transferred by the Defense, and that this should be presented to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget could deal properly, and after committee treatment, after the use of the fortifications. We soon became aware that the matter had been sent to the Ministry of Labour and Administration at the time, but I would point out and stress that I think the Ministry of Defence could have intervened at an earlier time, so that we had been given a treatment in Stortinget, i.e. pulled the fasteners out of this project. Now it may seem that the organisation of the fastening works is a matter that Stortinget has not been given a decision on. Today we have been briefed on both what Change Property has for responsibility, and what National Fortress is for something. Of course, we take note of that and hope that we get that case from the Ministry of Modernization during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1321	The interpellation debate is therefore over. We then proceed to the matter on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1335	Does anyone ask for the word? Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1338	There are still many people who are amazed that Mulla Krekar is still in Norway. In the international press, he has received great attention for many years as a partial founder and leader of the Ansar al-Islam organization, for which he himself claims he is no longer the leader. At the latest in the evening post yesterday, it was mentioned how people who are now under investigation in Sweden and who have been imprisoned in Sweden and are being tried there, even claiming that they belong to Ansar al-Islam and, as far as I understand, have been charged with violations of the terrorist law. It's been an ongoing matter for years. The Foreign Affairs Directorate has taken decisions on the expulsion and expulsion of Mulla Krekar, which has been denounced several times, and a letter has now arrived from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs dated 3 March 2005, which has a very, very thorough review of the whole case, including the conditions of the European Convention on Human Rights, and of all the things that have been claimed by Mulla Krekar and his lawyer. There is a thorough note on 11 pages that we have allowed to attach our Document No. Eight proposals. I also refer to the return question, which has been dealt with by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. The conclusion of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs is that ‘The Directorate for Foreign Affairs has subsequently concluded that there is no reason to amend the Decision of 19 February 2003’. That decision was to withdraw the complainant’s asylum status, travel certificates, residence permits and former work and residence permits, and decisions were also taken on the expulsion and registration of Schengen information systems. Part of the main reason is that Mulla Krekar is considered a danger to the Kingdom’s security. That is why we were very surprised when – instead of complying with this request from the Foreign Affairs Directorate on 3 March – nothing happened, as far as we know, on the part of the department. In our opinion, we should have taken note of the Foreign Affairs Directorate's proposals and implemented the necessary measures as soon as possible. Then there might have been a court trial, but it won't come until the department takes an expulsion decision. There's no such thing going on there. That is why it is the department that has now played out, after the Foreign Affairs Directorate has completed its work on the matter. We think that here the government should do what it could, and based on the treatment of the Foreign Affairs Directorate and immediately done what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says several times outside that she is working for, namely to get the crumbs out as quickly as possible, so that something is done about the danger of the Kingdom's security that the Foreign Affairs Directorate as a professional authority determines that he is. When this has not happened, we have felt it our duty to promote the proposal that the Storting now has to deal with. We hope the Stortinget will join in, so that the danger of the Kingdom's security that mulla Krekar poses when he is on Norwegian soil no longer persists, and at least that the matter will start again with a view to sending him as soon as possible. Since it is this matter that is on the agenda, I do not need to make any proposal because it is the proposal in Document No. 8:60 which is the matter itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1349	For the Workers' Party, there are three important reasons why we will reject the proposal by Carl I. Hagen and Per Sandberg. First of all, it will be very impeccable of the Storting to instruct the Government in this matter. The size has recently, just before Easter, dealt with a matter of changes in management conditions in the foreign field. In this context, with the support of the Workers' Party, it was agreed that the Ministry should be empowered to instruct the Foreign Affairs Department in such matters as this. It will therefore be very impeccable of the Storting now to enter and instruct in such a single matter. Secondly, the Labour Party finds it strange that the Progress Party in this case wants to violate the principles of legal security enshrined in Norwegian law. These principles may not depend on the type of case. It is for the judiciary to assess the administrative decisions taken. That the Storting as legislator is to interfere is very premature. Thirdly, the Stortinget has decided to give the European Convention on Human Rights precedence over Norwegian legislation. There are some limitations on Storting's ability to take decisions in individual cases under the Foreign Affairs Act. This applies, inter alia, to: the Norwegian authorities must be assured that the person concerned does not risk the death penalty on dispatch. Therefore, our conclusion is that in this situation the Government must take responsibility. It is the government's responsibility to resolve this matter as soon as possible within a clean framework. The Labour Party believes that although it may be very tempting to express an opinion on substance in this matter, we need to deal with the principle of power allocation, the safeguarding of legal certainty and international obligations enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1362	It is possible to hold long and interesting theoretical debates on whether or not the Storting can take such a decision as this proposal implies. But what's entirely doubtful, at my discretion, is that the Storting should not take a decision like this. It is linked to the division of roles according to our Norwegian constitution between the responsibility of the Government and the responsibility of the Storting, and both the government and the magnificence are well served by the fact that the division of roles is not eliminated, as it would be if the Stortinge were to dream of taking a decision like this. Even more basic is the rather elementary fact that neither the magnificence nor the government has the power to break Norwegian law. Nor does the Storting as a legislative assembly have the power to go beyond the laws of the Storting itself, unless the Storting takes the trouble of giving a new law or changing the given law. In reality, what the proposers invite Stortinget to take is a decision which is clearly across the legislative decisions of this magnificence itself. If you now hypothetically thought of the possibility that the Storting should show such poor judgment that a majority in this room would join such a proposal, you could get in the peculiar situation that Norwegian courts would subsequently declare that something the Government had done on the instructions of the Storting was illegal. Then – said with a little popular expression – as well as the Storting as the Government would sit back with the beard in the mailbox. Such eventuality should not be subjected by the Storting to itself or by the Government. In order to underline how insolent I think this proposal is, I would also point out that there is a very open question of whether a Council of State or the Government as a whole would have access to comply with an instruction given by the Storting in the manner that this decision requires. If it turns out later that something has been done that is contrary to Norwegian law, you will be in the baroque situation that the Stortinget could theoretically assert national responsibility to a Council of State because the Council of State had done something The Stortinget itself has ordered the Council of State to do. Then you would have created the perfect confusion. This has been said to underline why I believe that the Storting should not, in any case, consider the possibility of agreeing with a decision which the proposers here invite Stortinget to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1379	Carl I. Hagen opened his post by saying that there are many people who are amazed that mulla Krekar is still in the country. I'll give it to Carl I. Hagen right in. But from expressing a surprise to supporting this proposal that is being launched today, it is a long way to go. In the Central Party, we see it as totally out of date to support the proposal. We're focusing on the role distribution that's between government and expansion. We have no doubt that the government in this case has carried out careful and thorough assessments of the decision of the UDI. Here, the Labour Party has pointed out the importance of legal certainty and the importance of international obligations. It is decisively important to address all matters where relevant. We'll believe that the Government in its assessment has both taken such consideration and also any other consideration, but the most important thing here, in addition to these moments, is to secure the role distribution between government and accumulation. So we're going to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1384	I understand that many people are amazed that a matter may take so long. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is a matter of fact that is related to one of the world's largest trouble spots at the moment, that things are happening in our outside world that make us not only dependent on the legal review of the case. In this case, it has contributed to the matter taking a long time. In fact, the original decision, taken by UDI on 19 February 2003, following instructions from the Ministry of Local Affairs, provided for a return to an area which was at the time held by Ansar al-Islam, where Mulla Krekar had been without problems and in security, according to the documents from which the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Local Affairs adopted their decisions. A month after this, the area was bombed. There was no longer an area where it was possible to have a forced return that would meet the requirements you set to return people in relation to the EMK, after the assessment we then made. In addition to that, we have had two other issues in this case that have been assessed on an ongoing basis. Faraj Ahmad, who is really the name, was asked to deliver to Jordan. We do not send people out of the country until it is clear whether they will be delivered to another country. It's true in all kinds of cases. It was also the case that until June 2004, Mulla Krekar was under criminal investigation in Norway. Nor do we tend to send out persons who are under criminal investigation for serious offences and who may have been prosecuted in Norway. In addition, the fact that the extensive work in criminal matters has contributed to a significant new take-up of case documents, and since the criminal proceedings were closed in the summer of 2004, a review of 3,700 pages of criminal documents has been carried out to clarify the case. There are two aspects that can be seen in this case. One question relates to the substance and content. I'm not going to go into that part. The second is of course whether the Storting can take such a decision, and to what extent a Council of State may feel obliged to be instructed. I have this question in connection with this Document No. The 8-proposal submitted to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, which has clearly informed me that as a Council of State, I am not bound by a decision which I had to assess is contrary to Norwegian law and the obligations I have in relation to the law, although it is taken as a plenary decision in the Grand Duchy, because plenary decisions are subject to the legislative decisions given. This applies in particular in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights, but also in relation to the principles of the Administrative Act. It is then important to stress that the document annexed to its Document No by the representative of the Party of Progress. Eight proposals are a preparatory complaint handling document sent to the Ministry of Local Affairs for further consideration. When we have forwarded it to the lawyer of the person concerned, it is because we are obliged under Section 33 of the Administrative Act to ensure that the matter is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken. In a case with a collection of documents of an additional 3,700 pages, it is also natural to get the defender's answer. Therefore, we now expect to round off the matter if not too long, but it will still remain a significant fact. In this regard, I would like to say that there was one thing that was not right in that representative Carl I. Hagen said related to UDI's decision: UDI has not said that it is now fully possible to return to Iraq. What is clearly a prerequisite for that decision is what can be read in the second paragraph of the Annex: ‘However, a broadcast of the complainant will not lead to an infringement of Article 3 of the ECHR’, discussed in the preceding sections, which means that we cannot return persons if they are at risk of death penalty or inhumane treatment, i.e. torture, ‘if there is a satisfactory assurance that he will not be subjected to torture or other inhumane treatment, for example through an agreement with the Iraqi authorities’. We are now working on this issue in relation to Iraqi authorities. But for the time being, there is no legally elected government in Iraq, the only one that would have legitimate opportunity to commit us to that agreement. So we sometimes have a little bit to wait for. There is still concern in parts of Iraq, and at least it is not per. present date authorities that will be able to satisfy the requirements we have to be bound by international law, and which in any case, I will assume, may be tried before a court of law. It is a well-known case that the Ministry of Local Affairs and the State have already been tried before the court with an estimated trial of this case in May-June in order to have the expulsion decision lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1402	Of course, the Council of State is quite right in that it is her overall responsibility to ensure that matters are implemented in line with the law. Something else is not in our proposal today either. I expected what was said by the different representatives here today. One is what Signe Eye had in relation to the right of instruction. In fact, regardless of the matter that we are dealing with in relation to UDI, UNE and major issues, the Government already has an instructional right and possibility to UDI when there is a danger to the Kingdom’s security. It's been there forever. So that argument from the Workers' Party immediately falls to the ground. In addition, Signe Eye mentions the principle of legal certainty. I have read the letter from UDI up and down and down several times. I find that the UDI points out that the principle of legal certainty is largely respected. No one, of a different nature, who has migrated to Norway, whether there are quota refugees, asylum seekers or whatever it may be, has in some way been given so much resources to try out the principle of legal certainty. Despite the fact that I would have to spend some time, I would remind the Stortinget of what is on page 2 of the document, as it is available here, about the decision of 19 February 2003, which was also addressed by Carl I. Hagen: ‘In this decision it was decided to withdraw the complainant’s asylum status, travel certificates, residence permits’, etc. And on the other hand, ‘The Executive Board’s decision was taken on instructions from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in accordance with the recommendation of the Directorate.’ So it was in February 2003, two years ago. Since then, the decision has been appealed to the lawyers Sjødin and Meling. UDI goes on to say: ‘The appeal shall be deemed to have been lodged before the expiry of the appeal period. Further information on the complaint has been received; letter of 01.03.2003 concerning the request for suspension [[Doc. 141]] No one has had their legal certainty better than Mulla Krekar. Following instructions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Regional Affairs, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs has postponed implementation until 1 April 2005, and that is why we are presenting this proposal – because of course it was a April joke. It was April 1st. This has been the case over and over again, ever since the day Mulla Krekar was put under the magnifying glass. I also think it's important to draw a little bit of the story. As UDI also points out, Mulla Krekar did not have protection needs at all on the day of his stay in Norway — at all. He has proved that by what he has written in his own book. He has also confirmed this in the various hearings. It's a little interesting that now it's kind of going to be established – as it has been all the way – that the reason he's going to have protection in Norway is because he needs protection from Iraq. But the truth is that before Krekar came to Norway, he didn't have a place in Iraq. He was in Pakistan for years. He was three years old in Iran. Nearly six years were Krekar in other countries before he applied for protection in Norway against Iraq. This is a little interesting, because Krekar had a stay in Norway on 30 November 1991, when he came. On 13 April 1992 the decision was taken. A month later, May 10, Krekar traveled to Iraq. Mulla Krekar did not need protection, and does not need protection. Our proposal, as it is on the table here today, is that the Storting simply asks on its knees that the Council of State and the Government now make a decision to send this person out according to the expulsion decision that – and that is for Inge Wohnning – both the UDI and the Government support. Inge Wohnning's own council states that no law is broken, if Inge Wohnning is very concerned about it. No laws will be broken. It is Mulla Krekar who has broken the prerequisites for a stay in Norway. Therefore, there is no breach of Norwegian law if we now decide to send Mulla Krekar out, instead of doing as the Council of State has done, which has given amnesty to Mulla Krekar out of August – I think it was August 14th. It could be that the Council of State may have an ace in the sleeve as it approaches September 12. It seems a little bit amazing, it seems very amazing. Nor is there anything that warrants – even if the Council of State feels a little pressured to be reported – that mulla Krekar has to live in Oslo during that process. There is nothing to prevent it from sending the crumbs out while the case might have to go. I also record that many people use EMK. Again I refer to the letter from the UDI, and again I refer to what the Council of State has said. There is nothing to suggest that the EMK be overtested. Then we're left with one point, and that's what the Council of State was up to, and that's probably the last straw to the Council of State – whether it's possible from the turmoil in Iraq to send crumbs there. Then my question to the council is: why don't we use resources to get confirmations, get evidence to calm Signe Eye, Inge Wohnning and Meltveit Kleppa that there will be no execution or torture if you send the mulla Cricket back? As I have understood it, and it may possibly confirm or cancel, there have already been signs that you should not go to that step, neither execution nor torture, to Mulla Krekar if he is sent out of the country and back to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1438	It is such that it is always necessary to consider whether to be provoked by posts by the representative Per Sandberg, who so obviously chooses to use dramaturgy rather than materiality in his post. So the decision that's taken is based on the idea of proving that Mulla Krekar didn't have a need for protection when he got quota refugee status. But the description that he did not come from Iraq is the story of almost all of the quota refugees who come to this country, quota refugees, whom the Progress Party agrees to pick up on the High Commissioner's recommendation, and which Mulla Krekar was. People who do not live in their own country, but who are displaced, who are in a difficult situation, who usually live in refugee camps, exiles and other places, and who cannot be repatriated, and who are therefore resettled in third countries. That's the whole system. Then it'll be a little special to hear that story about quota refugees. If it's just people who are persecuted in their home country and run away somewhere, we should be putting the whole system of our foreign policy in place. Now it's a side thing. I have a feeling that this Document No. The 8 proposal was never really meant to be serious, but it was meant to be a marketing strategy for the Progress Party in relation to the case. If the Stortinget made this decision without any guarantees from the Iraqi authorities that it would not be subjected to inhuman treatment or torture, I would consider that such a case would not hold the court. I believe that a great responsibility is then assumed, if the Storting should begin to deal with the relationship with the EMK in detail in individual matters and be the one who decides. I am pleased that a majority in the European Parliament today seems to be doing the opposite and say that these administrative matters are actually in the administration, and that the Council of State is given the responsibility to make those assessments in consultation with the rest of the administration, assessments that may at some time also be subject to judicial review. In all fields of foreign affairs, in all fields related to human rights, the Stortinget, with the votes of the Advance Party – and I think it is important to emphasise this – has adopted the European Convention on Human Rights in front of all other legislation in that country. This was done by the Stortinget in 1999 with the voice of Carl I. Hagen by introducing the Human Rights Act, where the EMK was introduced with priority. Sometimes we have to expect that the decisions taken here of this kind actually matter when they meet the individual issues. At least that's my opinion. I think that, in principle, sometimes we are too uncritical to adopt things with primacy and with conventions, and the government has recently raised a discussion of this issue in the context of the power investigation. But once we've done it, and made it unanimous, we have to really take the consequences of it. In any case, I know that we have handed over the responsibility to make the final assessment of it to the judiciary, when we adopt that kind of law. And we have done so with the votes of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1447	Just a little clarification for the representative Sandberg – for the sake of order. Of course, there is nothing to prevent individual representatives in this Chamber from taking on the role of mastermind in the administration and, where appropriate, from agreeing or disagreeing with parts of the judgement which the administration is obliged to exercise. But I want to say that the 164 other representatives in this room have no reason to deal with it, because that's not the Storting's job. The Frøiland Committee is so clear that the Stortinge has a general right to instruct, but this access should be exercised with the utmost caution. But I have never experienced in my time in Stortinget that someone has made a proposal for instruction that does not go on a decision in a single case, but that goes on the implementation and timing of a decision in a single case. I have to say that I find it very difficult to understand that someone has enough imagination to think at all that it would be the cause of the Storting to take responsibility for. No, of course not.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1456	Several have not asked for the floor on the supplementary agenda. [[Fotation, see page 1972]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1464	We are then ready to go to voting, and we start with the things on the ordinary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1472	During the debate, Mr Hagen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority deplores the handling by Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold of the budgetary and financial management of the Defence.’ The President will propose that it be voted on by roll call. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The plug starts with representative No. 4 from Finnmark County. Those who vote in favour of the proposal reply yes. Those who vote against answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1501	So we want to switch over to voting over the setting. That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1506	On behalf of the government parties, I need to give a brief explanation of vote. I would recommend the representatives of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to vote in favour of IV, VI and VII. The other Roman numerals I recommend to our representatives to go against, partly because we disagree, and partly because they place unnecessary leadership in the work of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1530	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1564	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1638	During the debate, one proposal has been put forward, from Bjørn Hernæs on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1655	From the Right and Christian People's Party there is an alternative proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:37 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1674	We shall then vote against the proposal in Document No. 8:60 for 2004-2005. This case is dealt with in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 28 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure. This means that it has been out of sight for at least one day and then listed on the map for treatment. The proposal by the deposit representatives Per Sandberg and Carl. I. Hagen reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to use its right of instruction in respect of the Study of Foreign Affairs in order to implement the decision to issue Faraj Ahmad Najumuddin a.k.a. Mulla Krekar immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-05.ana.ud1998e1700	There is no record.
