ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e30	Postal services are important to all of us and represent a pillar of society that contributes to industrial development, trade and economic growth. Against this background, there is a cross-political agreement on the overall objective of postal policy: a comprehensive supply of postal services at reasonable prices and of good quality. This, I think, makes sense, because this is the most important thing in terms of what we are doing in postal policy. The issue to be addressed today is the proposal for the liquidation of remaining exclusive rights for Post Norway AS and whether the exploitation of competition in the market is the best way to achieve that objective. The postal market has been exposed to major changes in the last ten years, with globalisation, rapid technological development and eradicating industrial barriers. The mail rates are going down. The exclusive right of the post has been phased out and currently only covers normal correspondence of less than 100 grams. With effect from 1 January, the weight limit shall be reduced to 50 grams. The changes have led to major challenges for the Post as a Company. The competition from e.g. e-mail and online banking are growing. I am therefore pleased to be able to say today that the Post Office has managed to respond to the challenges. The item has adapted to the competitive situation. Postal and telecommunications regulators say about developments in the Norwegian postal market for 2003: The availability of postal services has been increased by the introduction of Post in Stores and by longer opening hours.The quality of delivery of priority mail is much better than before.Delivery rates are among the best in the world.And not least: Customers are more satisfied with the Post and, in particular, with Post in Stores. The postal and telecommunications authorities believe that we now have a world-class national postal company. The current situation is in stark contrast to the situation in 2000, when Posten received a periodic penalty payment for bad transmission times in priority mail. The results improvements have not come free of charge. They are the result of significant changes in the Item. I am therefore happy today to be able to direct a large reward to Posten's employees. They have, with a great deal in progress, taken the bet for what has been called a quantum leap to become one of the world's leading postal companies. In my meeting with Posten and Posten's employees, I notice that the company is now ready to face further competition. The entry consists of highly skilled, experienced and motivated employees, who will claim to be very well in the coming competition. This change has come in the light of the assurance by management and employees that there will be increasing competition in this sector in the future. The proposition provides predictability of the pace and framework conditions of this development. The postal operators and employees understand what changes the postal market is going through, and then we who put the framework conditions must also see the realities in our eyes. If we are to achieve the objective of providing good and reasonable services, we must adapt our policies to social developments. I record that in the setting, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party oppose this. It may seem that the Central Party has often been opposed to changes in the Post, and perhaps as if the Workers' Party has a tradition of wanting to have a monopoly on the liquidation of monopolies. It is in the attitude of the Committee on Transport of some parties that scepticism indicates that the provision of services in the districts could be maintained with increased competition. I want to turn this question around. Some districts will be served by others too. Why prevent them from legally solving the problems cheaper and/or better? There are examples of places where today’s legislation makes offenders effective in addressing the challenges. For me, it is important to stress that we do not make changes to the strict requirements relating to service provision, quality and frequency of delivery. We're still going to have some of the best postal services in the world. The system of government purchases is maintained. The unit portfolio will be passed on to individual shipments. I also remind you that the proposal opens up the possibility for local postal operators to start postal activities in the districts, preferably in combination with other activities. I'll be allowed to quote Kjell Opseth from the Workers' Party. When he was sitting in the Council of State, he said that the closure of the post office is good district policy. Then there was strong criticism, but the criticism has ceased. Finally, I would like to follow up Opseth's opinion and say that increased competition in the postal market is good district policy and good postal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e73	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e76	In the setting, government parties say, among other things. a good postal service is to be maintained in all parts of the country, including the districts, but in the same breath they say that the nationwide postal services should be continued at the current level. Are we absolutely sure of what the Government really means? Is the offer to be maintained, or is it such as to understand that it should be maintained? And in this context, can we trust the Government in this matter? Can the Council guarantee that the postal service will be maintained? The Council of State has some thoughts about this with costs, for example: when liberalisation has been completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e86	The measurements have to be the same. These are not the objectives we are now discussing. As I said in my introduction instead, there is a great deal of consensus about the goals, and they I want to put great emphasis on being there still. It is important that we have a good postal offer around the country. In terms of costs, I expect that it might have been shown to the costs of the state. We now see that as we have liberalised the Post in general, the costs for the government have gone down. We also see that we get better and better offers, as the Post and Telecommunications Authority has also assessed it. I think it is important that we stick to the goals we have, because I think that the country is served, and that we are now opening up to find flexible and good solutions that I believe a liberalisation represents. Then I think it's important that we, as politicians, say, and stand by, that we are willing to give money where there is a need to buy services from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e97	As I have said in previous speeches today, it does not seem that this proposal is primarily motivated by the need to improve services, and technological development requires that policies in this area should be changed, but that it is more ideologically motivated. This may seem like the answers we've been given to questions, that you're not quite sure if there's going to be any competition either. In one of the questions, we have asked how it would be economic for the state to maintain the unitary portfolio while at the same time having competition, and this is clear from the answer: ‘However, it is not assumed that other actors will find it commercially interesting to compete with the Post on the single consignment market to a significant extent.’ On another question, the Ministry answers that in Sweden, too, other players have not entered the market and competed with the Swedish post on individual consignments, i.e. in the area to be liberalised. So you go in to liberalize, but you've learned that this isn't going to happen. So the question to the Council of State is, how does the Ministry feel that this competition is going to be effective in the market you are proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e109	I think it's very important that we distinguish here between having a large market and having a target of many actors. I do not have a target for many actors, but for people wherever they live in the country to get a good postal offer. Let me give you an example: if you need to send a letter to a part of the population on Værøy, you have to use the Post for this, instead of sending them with e.g. someone who drove a taxi, who could deliver it faster and cheaper. For the municipality – and we have several examples of it – it would have paid off to find a local actor who could do the job, rather than to bet on one monopoly company. Yes, there's an ideology behind it. That's absolutely correct. It's that I'm concerned that we're going to have a living District Norway with flexible solutions. It's my ideology, and it's bearing on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e116	During the break before the evening meeting, I experienced something that I have never experienced before, namely that when I am talking to a journalist with whom I have an appointment, the Council of State gets away and claims that what I mean is nonsense. It's a word that's not supposed to be used in Storting's speech, but that's what was used. But I expect that there will have to be disagreements both on liberalisation and on the postponement of competition and, nevertheless, a sensible dialogue. In my article today, I mentioned Didrik Seip, who has our researcher on the post-questioning of power and democracy. He has, briefly summarised, said that the problem is that competition is difficult in the postal sector. He has also said that more competition in the districts could result in higher costs and/or more expensive postal services. In any case, effective competition at all levels is not possible, he says. So it's said in the proposition that competition is for the equivalent and good services of all. What is the Council of States that this researcher does not know?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e123	Now I'm not going to go into what you're talking to journalists about, but when I hear a conversation where I'm assigned opinions I've never expressed, I actually think I must be allowed to express it. We live in a democracy, and then I think I have to be allowed to stand for what I want to stand for, without others putting opinions in my mouth. I am still concerned that liberalisation can contribute to more flexible solutions in the districts. When I've traveled around and we've talked about this, I experience time and time again to get the question: why should we have a legal basis that makes life quite difficult for us? Why aren't we going to be allowed to solve these problems as far as it's possible? In Sweden, for example, we have a good deal of examples of small actors coming in locally and solving local challenges. And that's what's important. I'm not asking about one big foreign actor. I would like to have some small, local, that can help us solve the challenges we have locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e130	The president wants to comment on the last line exchange saying that what happens at the time, and has happened at the time, maybe should be solved at the time. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e135	The history of the Post in Norway is a story about how to create opportunities for Building Norway. The old Post was the meeting place for many towns. I record that the Council of State is now ending that ideology and will have an ideology that is putting this system at risk and creating a completely different basis, and for me perhaps a slightly more dramatic basis, for the future of Building Norway. I had to say that as an introduction to what was said. For the sake of the Minutes, I would like to say that the Labour Party does not promote its own proposals for this vote. We are voting against the proposals that have been put forward. To what is then available, and what has been said so far in the debate, I would say: does the EU's timetable scare anyone? It doesn't scare us. We believe that there is a reasonable amount of reason for us to be cautious here and not to make a decision until we have gathered the experience of the initiatives already taken. There is a great deal of reason in the danger of being cautious. So it is said: but the Post would like to be in front of the EU's decisions. Yes, but the post must be. There are many in this country who will be further ahead than we are, in relation to the EU. They want to be a little bit ahead of you. However, as far as I have registered, it is still the case that Norway is not a member of the EU, so we should probably be a little careful and not try to make Norway the European lighthouse. Here I feel that the clear no-party, the Christian People's Party, which with great weight, is expressing that they want to show power by reserving themselves to directives coming from the EU, is moving forward at great speed, with high-lifted tabs and lights in their hands and saying: yes, in this case we would like to be the lighthouse. Of course, it's a wonder. Then it is also strange when it is the Post's will that is the background for wanting to run so fast. Do we disagree with the transition? No, no, no! But we're able to see that two years is not the distance between heaven and hell. Because that's what we're talking about. Are the employees against conversion? No, no, no! They use in the printed paper that has been distributed to the staging representatives the expression ‘would be involved and govern’ as an argument for what they have been involved in. But they also say that in order to be able to participate and rule in a reasonable way, we shouldn't be in front of decisions. We should be careful to make Norway a place to experiment with a liberalized postal system. Is that wrong? No, I think there's a lot of sense in that. So there's a lot of sense in running gently. Many people will try to make this an ideological theme. I think it's also very wise to do that. But then you have to see what is going on, because liberalisation in the postal market is helping to create a new system in part of what is the welfare state of Norway. And then I'm not talking about what's purely economic, but I'm talking about the way to organize us. We take an ideological position in the sense that we weaken the basis of «By and land, hand in hand». I thought that, even though «By and land, hand in hand» was historically a social democratic slogan, in a way had become the parole of the people. We thought it was good that we could populate this country. But that is what we are about to do, as a grip, that we are turning this over to a market with so much uncertainty that in this debate so far you are not able to find an example in the world that says this makes sense. The attempts to find this country ended with the fact that the representative of Sahl pointed out that the Post migration so far was a good enough example of this liberalisation being a good way to go. In other words, Norway became self-sufficient. It is nice to hear, but it is strange when you have formulated it as you have done in the setting. We have to be careful to run too fast, but at the same time we have to be clear enough to be willing to participate in what is happening in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e159	I can't do that to make a little comment to the representative Froyn. Unlike Froyn, I grew up in the countryside, and I grew up in the store by mail. We ran a store in my family. We had a post office. It was an important part of the nutritional basis and important for the countryside. But I think I should be so honest to say that now, after the post office has closed down, the services to the residents are even better than before, in spite of this. So to some other questions. It is a word that says that the one who wants to change is in trouble, but the one who does not want to change has lost. I think we now see that the changes that have been, and that have been very heavy in the Post over the years, have produced results. The switchovers have been a success primarily for consumers, with several outlets, with a longer opening time, with 99.96 pst. Which is six-day delivery, 88 pst. – that number has never before been so high – gets the A-post overnight. The financial results in the Post Office are good, and government purchases have fallen. The option was not to continue as before. The alternative was that today we had been sitting again with an old money lock that we probably could not afford to hold on, and we had been dealing with a postal system that we had not been lit up with. All credit to the post office, to all the employees who have been with us and made sure that today we have a very up-to-date postal system in Norway. If we're also going to use a well-known expression here, it's from pessimism, which predestined the Post and post-development ten to twelve years ago, to the optimism and future that we're seeing today. So some other moments. It has been claimed that we are going ahead – and that was easy expression as a lighthouse – for the European Union. Let me say one thing: we shall not adapt to life and death to the European Union. However, although the EU may be coming in as late as 2009, I would like to remind you that many of the Member States are moving significantly faster than both their plans and our plans. I can name Sweden, Finland, Estonia, the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands. All these countries are actually going on or are about to start pretty fast with such a conversion. Then ask Froy again for a good example that this has been successful. I'm not going to bother Froyn so much, but let's take a country like Froyn and I know a little bit about it after a short visit there. We didn't get very much into this, but we were a little bit into it, just in New Zealand. What happened in New Zealand? New Zealand liberalized the Post quite completely a few years ago. What happened immediately afterwards was that 17 or 18 actors came in only in the first eight months – very many small, local actors, but also some larger actors. This has provided better delivery services and better delivery times, a better supply. There is no doubt that this system has also given lower prices to users in New Zealand. It's hard to compare exactly, but I think this is an example of the population and geography that is closest to us. What this discussion we have today, to the seventh and last boils down to, is a question of competition is something we're going to try to avoid, something we're going to try to cloud like the plague until we're forced to do something else because some outer enemy is forcing us to do it. That's how I feel, the hold is with the minority here today, with the socialists. I think it's a very unhealthy hold. I believe competition seems to be exacerbating. We've seen that from other sectors. We've seen it in the telecommunications sector. We've seen it in the broadcasting sector, and we've seen it for example. seen it in the aviation sector in the last few years after we got a government change, i.e. in Norwegian aviation, where we have increased competition, lower prices and a better supply. That's what we believe. When the Post itself wants this, and when we believe and have multiples to increase competition as soon as possible will sharpen the Post and provide us with better services, I do not see any reason for us to wait for some EU directive that forces us to do this. We will continue with this offensive attitude that Norwegian politicians have had for the last four years, and that the Post and indeed some politicians have had to develop before us. We want to give the Post a chance to evolve, to delight the inhabitants – we customers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e174	Some words very briefly at the end of this debate. With today's decision to terminate the Post Office's exclusive right from 1 January 2007, the last remaining monopoly on the postal market is now disappearing. Large parts of the Norwegian postal market are already liberalised. Moreover, it is the Posten’s own intention that the Stortinget complete the process we are now in, before the EU obliges all countries in the EEA to open all its markets. The Christian People's Party is very clear that the high level of services in the districts will not disappear with the abolition of exclusive rights. That means that it will not be more expensive to send letters between Henfoss and Hammerfest than between Grünerløkka and Grorud. We want to continue unit portfolios on individual shipments. In addition, the State shall continue to pay and in such a way as to guarantee the services of those parts of the country in which it is not profitable to operate. In addition, we're still going to have postage six days a week. It shall also be considered to introduce arrangements with a maximum price for some services in order to prevent some from paying excessive amounts, such as: if you live in remote areas. The value of a letter will never be the same as the price that's at the top of the right corner. Good services for all mean something to small businesses, who need all the help they can get to preserve the jobs they have created. The Christian People's Party will facilitate the maintenance of the settlement in the districts. There's no doubt about it. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to wind up Post Norway's last remaining exclusive right in the postal market, and the Christian People's Party supports the continuation of schemes that continue to ensure good postal services throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e187	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e190	The issue we are dealing with now means in many ways a new roadblock for something people over many generations have considered to be a law of nature. “The entry is to come forward” has been something that we have all considered quite natural, whether we live in the city’s central streets or on the outermost island of District Norway. This has been done by employees with great precision. I'm concerned that the starting shot is now going to have to get the districts back to see that an important social asset is being degraded and must give way to market forces. We have experience for who gets hurt when only heads are counted and not kilometers. Not all liberalisation and outsourcing have been good. I do not understand that Norway has to move faster than the EU in this matter. After all, it is not even certain that the European Union will go as far as we now go, as I understand it. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are showing an eagerness for liberalisation that goes beyond the EU's, incredible enough. I don't see the idea that the same parties have some vague formulations, for example. «to ensure that users of the Item are protected against unfair price differences» and that different maximum prices are assessed. I have little faith that this will be well taken care of, I think it will be the market that governs more and more ways. This means, then, that once again, those who live and do business in the districts have to pay. I see that the majority in the vote says that today's good quality of postal services should be maintained throughout the country. I'm afraid this won't apply everywhere in the country. The exclusive right of the post has been of great importance in ensuring the geographical cohesion of prices and in ensuring good cross-border services. I agree with the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre that the consequence of the winding-up of the exclusive right of Post Norway could be poorer offers in the districts both in terms of quality and price. I would like to commend these parties for having taken account of the whole country this time as well and for keeping it open. Finally, it has been claimed several times today by the majority that this is something the Post wants. But it is well that it is limited to the management of the Post and that the other employees of the Post are much more sceptical of what will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e201	I just have a little final comment. It was the Council of State's reason to promote this proposal that led me to take the floor. She said they want flexible solutions in the districts. The fact that it would be easier for the neighbours at Værøy and Røst to send letters between themselves was the main motive, or an important motive, in this case. But that is not the case, and that is not what is advertised throughout the message. For it is announced that access to the Norwegian market will be easier for foreign operators. There is also an announcement that you can expect to open up the part of the postal distribution that is under public purchase, i.e. what we have discussed today, namely that individual mail items are to be tendered. It is also announced to facilitate the opening up of the Post distribution network to other actors, i.e. full liberalisation. That's what we're against, that's what we're critical of, because we think we can threaten what's been the success of the Post in Norway all year round: that you can get a qualitatively equal postal service on the most naked island or in a remote mountain village in Norway – at the same price, whether you're in a big city or in the districts. This is the whole structure that we believe is being put under pressure and threatened by being able to put this into tender. You bring in other actors – you split up what's called a monopoly here. We directly disagree with that, and we believe that we also have the support of the OECD, which in its report, to which I have referred earlier today, says that the delivery of mail to small and medium-sized end-users is a natural monopoly. So this isn't just an SV, the Working Party and the Center Party mean. We also have support for this in the OECD.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e210	The representative of Løvik talks as if all progress in the public sector came from the launching and liberalisation of competition. It is not documented, even if it applies to the Item. The Labour Party and I agree that there has been a great deal of positive in the Post Office, among other things. with a country post office and Post i Butikk. But it has no direct connection with liberalisation. The representative, Mr Løvik, says that being against the liberalisation of the Post or being against liberalisation and postponing competition in itself is against change. You and you. This is at best unimaginable. There are many other ways to change than by launching and liberalising competition. The post is the best example of it. Many other businesses have changed and changed, and it should also be appreciated. I think it's going to be very one-sided on the right hand side. The Labour Party has two essential arguments for not exporting the ultimate liberalisation of the Post. The first is that Norway is a small, open market. It's totally illogical that we should open up to the big ones first. It is quite illogical, and the EU itself has warned of an evaluation of what has happened to liberalisation until now. I think there are many in the European Union who are also insecure. There are many pig-grown strokes in EU countries with which we can speak and which may lead to a different conclusion. The question is point 1: why should we go first? No, that's totally illogical. And point 2: Everything that's going to predict the provision of equivalent services at the same price in Norway is going to be distributed further. Yes, why the haste? A logical consequence of its extension must then be that we do not draw the conclusion until then. It is foolish to draw the conclusion before the distributions. It's after we have to draw the conclusion. And then you say it's urgent, because the A.S. will. Yes, Posten AS's lease will. Postkom, who organizes the brothers of those added to the Post – and above it, as far as I think – they don't want to. They think it's illogical, and they think it's wrong to do it now. It's actually in the head of these adding that the competence of the Post. And then I have to say, finally, that I have respect for someone wanting to liberalize earlier. I don't understand, but I respect it. And I think both the Council of State, and perhaps the special representative of Løvik, speak out disrespectfully of the views of political opponents in a matter as ideologically sound as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e221	What I see as a big highlight in this debate is that everyone is busy in the districts, and that is very good. Now I have grown up with a post office that was very small, and I see that even those who live there today have a good offer. It is quite right that the coffee may not be cooked and served properly in the same way as it was at that post office, but the community is doing well anyway. The exposure to the fact that we want a solid and good offer throughout the country, I see it as very positive when we are going to continue to work on the legislation in this area. Then I would like to refer to the OECD report to which the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen referred. I have the report here. Its conclusion is a complete recommendation to terminate the exclusive right in the postal market. I think there's reason to stress that. In fact, this report also shows that there may be huge gains to be gained by the liquidation of the exclusive right. We are not talking about terminating the Post Office. We're talking about liquidating the exclusive right of a large enterprise owned by the state. It may be beneficial for us to be out early – in front of the EU. Now it is not that all of us are equally excited about everything the EU is thinking about, and perhaps it is that we should go ahead of the EU in some areas. Maybe this is such an area where we can early be involved and regulate how we want the postal market to be. It is that our neighbouring country, Sweden, has liberalised for a long time. So it's not like we're first. And so is the fact that the Post Norway has entered the Swedish market through its arrangements, so the Post Norway is already operating in countries other than Norway. I would like to repeat that one thing is that we open up to other actors of some size, but I think it's very important that we here get a flexible solution that is not dictated in any way. Here, there is room for local variation in how you choose to solve the challenges that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e232	I should not really take the floor on this matter. But after having been sitting and hearing the Workers' Party and S.V. speaking out, I have to say something. There is a risk that it threatens the outlying population – that is, every time there is talk of liberalisation or competition, the Workers' Party and the UK are up here and alive. That was when the radio was involved, when it was about TV 2, when Mesta was to be put out to competition, and when it was about competition on the railway track and the ferry offers. There wasn't going to be any savings, they stood here and said. And now we've had a bid for ferries in Sogn and Fjordane where a company has said that if they get the exclusive right for nine years, they're going to pay the state $70 million. kr to drive the ferries at that time. So competition works – it works everywhere in society, no matter what you do. If you're going to buy groceries or something, you go to Rimi, Coop or wherever you want to go. But the Workers' Party is struggling against and going backwards into the future with all the brakes on. The post office has become nothing but a very large transport company where they have special rights by letter of less than 50 grams. And what's a letter? Well, it's a small package that's being transported around. There are many companies that run and transport packages of different sizes. But here we're going to have a state-owned company that's still going to operate the way they've been running every year. And if there were no demands on them, they would not have changed to the level they have today. It's a fear that you won't get mail where I live, for example, on Fauske. I live five kilometers outside Fauske, and there's a fear that there won't be mail for you either. The point is that when we're going to have a tender out, we're going to create criteria that will enable everyone to get the mail. And then you get a discussion here about whether the Post will or not, whether management will or not, whether it is a claim from the EU or not. It's completely immaterial to me. For me, it's important that we get an effective postal delivery in this country that makes customers get it as cheap as possible, and that taxpayers don't pay as much as they do today, and that we get it cheaper by doing this. But the Workers' Party and SV go into the future with all the brakes on. The Progress Party does not. We want a development in the future where we get a good offer to the entire population of this country, also to piggybacks, for a reasonable amount of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e243	First, a comment to the representative Svendsen: If the working party is going to go backwards into the future, I actually think it makes sense to have all the brakes on – so that's said from my side. So until I actually asked for the word, simply to comment on the post from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. She said that not all developments are due to competition, and that there is no competition that has done all of this. No, of course not, but competition has done a good deal of it. Is there anyone who thinks that if the old Telecom had continued as it did, we would have had the situation we have in the telecommunications sector today when it comes to pricing and competition? Never -- that wouldn't be possible. If the NRK had been allowed to continue as a monopoly, would we have this shortage in supply? Never. If we had one airline that was allowed to fly, would we have had the prices and offers we have today? Absolutely not. At the same time, I can ask the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen – when he says that it is the districts that are losing on this once again: Is it the districts that have lost that Televerket now has a price in the districts that is the twentieth of what he was 25 years ago? Is it the districts that have lost that we get a better radio supply even where the representative Arnesen cages, and where I live? We don't live in the same place, but we live on the outskirts of both of them, at least relatively set. Is it the outboards that have lost on better flight availability? The answer, of course, is a definite no. Moreover, with the competition, the Post and the revenues – all of this. I want to remind you that 80-85 pst. by the operation of Post Noreg AS today, and that most of the revenue of the Post is not from the one-rights area – the protected area – but from the area in which an already competitive area exists. And it's quite clear that when these are used formulations like we don't have to open up to others until others open up to us, it's an unfathomable negative and defensive setting. The point is that the Post has wanted to be in front. And when we talk about the Post, it's the organization that we state own. Then one can discuss the situation internally in the Post, but the post's official position is this, first and foremost – and there I am fully in line with the representative Svendsen – because this will benefit Norwegian citizens. We have to get started first, and whoever gets started will always have an advantage over the years to come. There's a clear difference between the multiples and the multiples. But I'm overconfident that if it ever goes so wrong that we get a government change, this won't be reversed, because in retrospect, most people will see that such reforms are necessary. In five years, all parties will boast of what has been done. But of course they won't move on then either, because it costs a little political.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e256	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e276	The hybrids are coming. This is not a science fiction film, but the name of environmentally friendly cars that use a mixture of petrol/diesel and electricity as a driving force – at least until further notice. We need environmentally friendly cars, buses and trucks. The reason for this is that we know that the transport sector accounts for a large proportion of the total emissions of environmentally damaging toxins. 24 pst. emissions of greenhouse gases in Norway are from the transport sector. Nearly half of the acidifying emissions of nitrogen oxide are caused by traffic and the exhaust gas accounts for about 40 pst. of particulate emissions in the largest cities. More than 700,000 people live in areas with harmful air. Here's the big challenge. Unfortunately, these challenges were not fully addressed during the management of the national transport plan 2006–2015. On questions from the Committee on the calculation of the effects of climate change emissions from the transport sector, the Ministry replied: ‘The reason for not showing effects of the measures in the notification on greenhouse gas emissions is that these effects are very small.’ The working party, SV and the Centre were critical to this in the comments. Providing environmentally friendly cars can help turn this around. For many years, electric cars have had political significance. Many policy decisions have been taken to make it attractive with an electric car, and that is good. Exemptions from tolls, free parking and use of public spaces are instruments used to get people to run electrically, further tax measures such as exemption from the single fee, annual tax, VAT and reduced rates of benefit for company cars. Unfortunately, a combination of several factors has meant that electric cars have not been a great success. Problems in running longer distances and large costs of spare parts are among the reasons that there are currently no more than approx. 1500 electric cars in Norway. Therefore, we now need to take new policy initiatives and adopt new policy decisions that are adapted to the real situation in this area. The dream of the zero-emission vehicle, the hydrogen car that escapes pure water, is not to be put away. But if, in the short term, we really mean something about reducing the energy use and thus the pollution from the car park, we have to stick to the reality we have today and many years to come. The possibility will then be the hybrid car. Hybrid technology is both simple and brilliant. Putting in hops and using an internal combustion engine and an electric motor in the same car in a way gives the best from two on. These two engines work either separately, alternately or in combination – depending on how much propulsion power is needed. The switch is automatic. The internal combustion engine charges the battery when the car is in use. In addition, the battery is charged when a brake is applied or when a tray is rolled down. When the car is stationary, e.g. on red light, stopping the combustion engine. The electric motor sews to get the car going again. In use, the hybrid car is fully comparable to an ordinary car – it is currently difficult to tell about an electric car. The operational capabilities are just as good. So there's no such thing as limits for the electric car. The hybrid solution can give up to 50 pst. Energy savings per year car, and if it is designed so that most people can buy and run hybrid cars, the environmental benefit is high – or at least it can be. The hybrid car creates a win-win situation. The driver saves money on petrol, and CO2 emissions are halved in relation to comparable car types, society and the environment are saved on environmental pollutants, and this will help Norway to comply more closely with its obligations in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. When the car of the Year was in Europe last year, it was a hybrid car that won – Toyota Prius. This suggests that Europe is interested in hybrid cars. In Norway, unfortunately, only Toyota sells hybrid cars, and we now get only about in Norway. 100 cars a year, because demand is high in the world in general and in the United States in particular. It is in itself positive that there are waiting lists to purchase this car, but the access has unfortunately been relatively small so far. Toyota plans from the first half of 2005 to increase production from 100,000 to 180 000 such cars per year. It'll help you out a little bit. In addition, Honda sells hybrid cars in Europe. Other brands, such as Lexus, Ford and Mercedes, have also shown hybrid cars. This provides more options and possibilities for more cars in the future. The supply of such cars is still too low. We should do something about this, including helping hybrid car manufacturers produce more cars and bets on the Norwegian market, and stimulating the Nordics to buy and drive such cars. From today on we should send a clear signal to the car manufacturers that Norway is ready for the hybrid cars, and that we will do what is in our power to stimulate this environmentally friendly vehicle. At least the Labour Party will. As I mentioned earlier, a number of measures have been taken to stimulate the use of electric cars. The last time before the weekend the state council said that all collective fields in the country should be opened for electric cars. In order to increase demand for hybrid cars, this and in the long term also several other measures that apply to the electric car should be applied to the hybrid car. The working party is aware that the measures being implemented will give effect as soon as possible. This can be done by giving hybrid cars the right to run in the collective field, in the same way as electric cars. If she is afraid of congestion in the collective field, the measure may be combined with saying no to minibuses that do not have at least two or three passengers in the car, in the collective field. Studies indicate that in two out of three minibuses there is only one person. It's not environmentally friendly, it's the opposite. Granting hybrid cars the right to run in collective fields will show that Norway is a country where there is a political desire and willingness to facilitate the use of the best available environmental technology in the transport sector. The use of collective fields will appeal to both producers and users and stimulate more people to acquire and use environmental vehicles. Other measures may be somewhat longer-term, but there is good reason to look at all the special measures put in place for the electric car. Of course, action needs to be assessed against other considerations. So back to access to the collective field: to assess which vehicles should have access, it is necessary to introduce an assessment criterion that ensures non-discrimination and competition neutrality. If a petrol engine alone, or any other technology, meets the requirements, they should also be granted access. The same can apply to other cars that meet certain criteria. Such environmental criteria must be continuously adjustable and made more stringent as technology makes it possible for more environmentally friendly cars. Only in this way can policy stimulate further environmentally friendly development. The limits for the environmental requirements of the exhaust gas must therefore be continuously assessed. One should consider – at least now at the beginning – what kind of environmentally friendly cars are available in Norway. In this assessment, the starting point may be the Californian so-called SUlev requirements, which are translated into super-ultra-low emissions. These requirements do not contain any CO2 emission requirements. Of course, this must be included in the Norwegian requirements for environmentally friendly cars, and I would dare to suggest that a reasonable requirement could be that the cars do not release more than 120 grams of CO2 per car. km in the current situation. If the SULEV requirements are met, in addition to CO2 emissions requirements, a car or a vehicle should be entitled to use the collective field and, where appropriate, other dishes I have mentioned, for example: three years at a time. Oblat, which defines the car as environmentally friendly, can be sent out at the same time as one gets a counter to have paid the annual fee, and such a bar should of course be clearly visible, but it should not be the big problem. In California, more hybrid projects have been launched to change people's driving habits, which reduces energy consumption and gives cleaner air. We need action now. When a conservative governor like Arnold Schwarzenegger can bet on this, the Left should also do the same to the Torild Skogsholm of Norway. I look forward to a positive response to what action the Minister for Trade will propose to stimulate the use of hybrid cars in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e335	I must first of all say that I very much appreciate the fact that this issue comes on the agenda, and that this interpellation has been initiated, because it is an important matter, and that is a matter of concern both to the Government and not least to the party of which I belong. It is a very important task, not least politically, to reduce emissions from road traffic. I am therefore pleased that the emissions of several pollutants have fallen sharply in recent years, despite significant traffic growth. Even more stringent exhaust gas requirements lead to lower emissions. Most such environmentally harmful emissions from vehicles can be purified by means of new clean-up technologies. However, CO2 emissions cannot be purified and are therefore a major and long-term environmental challenge. The transport sector accounts for approx. 25 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. It is therefore essential to promote both the development of more environmentally friendly cars with lower emissions and low fuel consumption and the promotion of alternative fuels. This is why a number of measures have already been implemented to promote environmentally friendly cars in Norway. Electric cars and hydrogen vehicles based on fuel cell technology are currently exempt from a one-off charge and VAT, zero rate, free parking in public places, free access to bombings and the possibility to drive in public fields. Furthermore, there is a tax exemption on natural gas, biogas and biodiesel. The government has more than tripled the investment in alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies over the transport budget since 2001. These means will include, inter alia: target projects to facilitate the use of hydrogen, fuel cell technology and biofuels in the transport sector. The government is also working on the follow-up to the Hydrogen Committee report and will present a national commitment to biofuels for the summer. The hybrid cars, which the interpellant specifically mentions, are a useful contribution to the strain of environmentally friendly cars. They represent an exciting technology with their interaction between the electric motor and the internal combustion engine and seem to have a large commercial potential. Today there are actually waiting lists to buy hybrid cars in Norway, which I see as a very positive development. In order to promote hybrid cars, it is therefore appropriate to challenge in the first place the car importers to supply the cars that the market is asking for here. The government has also provided these hybrid cars with a tax exemption for the environmentally friendly part of the car, the electric motor. This exemption represents a significant sum. On the other hand, the petrol engine is still polluting and should not have equivalent tax exemptions and benefits to zero-emission cars. The current charging system significantly stimulates the purchase of the most environmentally friendly cars, as low-weight and low-power cars, and thus lower emissions, have lower charges than those with high weight and high power volumes. Initially, I am critical of giving special advantages to certain technologies supplied by certain manufacturers. The specific advantages of electric cars and other zero-emission vehicles must be understood as a special scheme for the most environmentally friendly options, which, without such advantages, would not enter the market. This will not be the case for the hybrid technology, which is subject to mass production by the major international car manufacturers. I want to help stimulate the purchase and use of the most environmentally friendly cars, but the instruments must be technology neutral and directed towards emissions rather than specific types of technology and fuel. I therefore welcome the fact that new low-emission vehicles will be on the market. When choosing the type of measures to be taken to stimulate the purchase and use of such environmentally friendly vehicles, it is important not to forget that environmentally friendly vehicles also contribute to cows, accidents and a more car-based and, in many eyes, less urban environment. Therefore, it is necessary to choose instruments that stimulate consumers to choose environmentally friendly vehicles and public transport rather than other vehicles, not for the purchase and use of environmentally friendly vehicles as such. We must also always ensure that these are the most environmentally friendly forms of transport we have, such as walking, cycling and public transport, which must be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e361	I thank the Council of State for your answer. When the Council of State began to say that it was so nice that this was taken up, I had a great hope that the Council of State would respond very positively to this with special measures for hybrid cars. But then the rest of the answer was no, we won't. We were wondering what to do with the electric cars or what we've done. I also had that in my interpellation. But it's most impossible to get electric cars, and they don't work like a regular car. They have too many limitations, both in terms of running length, in relation to the workshop and partly in relation to the large batteries. So the state council talked a little bit about hydrogen cars. Yes, there's a lot of evidence that it's pretty far ahead. So, talk to the government about fuel and bio. All of this is completely okay. This is good in itself, but here I think the best is the good of his enemy. We don't get the best in the short term, so we have to do something with the good that hybrid cars are, we have to stimulate to the best that we have available. I'm a little disappointed that the rest of the answer went through this with zero-run trucks. So the government says that the hybrid cars are a useful addition, that there are waiting lists, that it is good, and that we have to challenge the car importers. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Obviously, we have to push them to get more hybrid cars. But in addition, we could have pressured them by providing even better facilities, for the measures that are currently being taken when it comes to hybrid cars, are so few that they are not enough to stimulate even more people to buy. If society, if the Council of State, e.g. In the short term, arranged to open up the collective fields, which would mean a lot, it could be a good idea to press the car importers and say that in Norway we will do something about this, here we are quite prepared to do very much. Then the state council says that anything other than the electric motors is uniting. After a while, there are some petrol and diesel engines that are much smaller than now. If it is to be as technology-neutral as the state council says, then it must be emitted that determines whether one is environmentally friendly – not how one gets it out, but how much it is emitted. And then we have the SULEV requirements that we can supplement with a CO2 requirement, and then we can stimulate and push it in the right direction. In order to avoid becoming a sleeper for those who receive these special benefits, a few permits, or other good ones, should be granted for a few years at a time, for example. three years. It must be at most. Then we have to reconsider the requirements and set them lower, because then probably the technology has come further. The day when the hydrogen cars are available at a price that makes it possible for people to buy them, then they have to have zero emissions in the collective fields, then we should primarily have exemptions for the hydrogen cars. But yet we must not let the best be the good of his enemy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e375	I perceive that the representative is disappointed that we are not making arrangements for hybrid cars, and then I have to repeat that we have a significant tax relief. As far as I have registered, there will be a tax relief on hybrid cars compared to cars with normal combustion engine technology of around NOK 50 000. It's a significant amount. I myself have been to a meeting in Japan with one of the manufacturers that produce hybrid cars, and this is about using e.g. collective areas for stimulation were not at all on the agenda. We see that there are long waiting lists to buy these types of cars, and then I think the challenge lies primarily with the car importers. Then I have to say that it has been a clear policy on my part to facilitate better public transport and the purest environmental technology that can be recovered at any time. And then I have to say that I am a little afraid to open up to cars that together have a pretty clean technology, but where you emissionfully might get better if you fill up an ordinary car with passengers. Once we've worked so hard to improve the promotion of public transport in big cities, especially in Oslo, where we have concrete targets, we've set a target of 20 pst. faster performance, I am a little afraid that we will now open up car solutions that will get the same benefits from driving in collective fields, and that in this way we will lure people out of the bus and into the car, which is not completely environmentally friendly. I'll be very sceptical about that. I am afraid that it will be a step back in relation to the environmental and public transport investment. We do not get rid of queue problems and housing problems when we continue to stimulate a relatively high level of car use. So I'll still work for the purest technology and try to be involved in stimulating the technology that might still be a little bit expensive, and where we don't have a commercial market. That is, we're opening up zero-emission cars in collective fields. So far, I think we should go to stimulate to get extra far, but I don't want to get into the collective fields those cars that still contribute to some challenges. I hope that the car importers can also help us get a cleaner technology in the market gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e390	I want to take the opportunity to talk a little bit about charging policies. The interpellant raises an important question about our environmental liabilities in the future. Norway has ratified and implemented the Kyoto Protocol’s obligations. Of course, the Labour Party will help us to ensure that we keep international agreements, but we cannot do it alone. Let me explain this in more detail. In the course of the budgetary procedure in December 2000, the then Labour Party government received a unanimous increase in asking for a shift in tax policy adapted to new technologies. Unfortunately, the Bondevik government and the National Council for Forestsholm did not follow this up, but announced in the 2004 budget that they would look specifically at the use deduction and the annual tax. To the disappointment of the Workers' Party, the Government did not follow this up in the 2005 budget. Therefore, in the 2005 budget setting – i.e. this year – we pointed out that it was now necessary to implement changes in car charges, so that they stimulate a car park that provides lower environmental pressures and increased road safety. This time, unfortunately, the Workers' Party was standing alone. We have problems realizing that a government that wants to be environmentally friendly does not initiate measures for the transport sector that would really help with emissions. In the Workers' Party, we take the climate and environmental challenges seriously. We provided this as a background for the Government to have a majority in the Storting for a climate law that will lead to a real reduction in industrial emissions. This, in turn, will reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally. Of course, the use of more environmentally friendly cars will also mean much to the environment in cities. Today, thousands of asthmatics have to suffer from emissions from the car park. We must act if we want results. We must show the will and the way to create a market where environmentally friendly means of transport take precedence. In the Workers' Party we are clear, but again we are waiting for the so-called environmental parties to go from talking to practice. There is little to blame for car importers when a market is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e401	It's an important subject area that's taken up in this interpellation. But I think it's important that we don't go into detail in individual technologies, but try to see this in a slightly larger context. When we, as the Council of State was in the past today, have been affected by emissions in increased traffic, it is through quite major improvements in the existing car mass. The usual cars have become much more environmentally friendly in recent years – the usual cars, and not the particularly environmentally friendly cars. That's the most important single measure we can do, that's to get common cars as easy to use and environmentally friendly as possible. There are a lot of technologies that compete to be environmentally friendly. It's going on gas, it's going on electricity, it's going on hydrogen, and the interpellation here is especially about hybrid cars. I agree with the Council that it is important that we have a charging system that stimulates lower emissions. There, of course, I am also in line with the representative of Klungland. Obviously, there might be a little bit different design of these systems. What I and Right feel is the most important thing is that the systems we design are technology neutral, so that they don't favor special technologies, special fuels, special car types, special manufacturers, special importers or nice lobbyists towards Stortinget. I think it's important that we see this in a context, and that we stimulate lower emissions through, among other things. the charging system without entering into new decisions each time there are technological changes. It will be a resilient policy, and the Minister for Transport has full support from the Right in the work she has outlined here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e408	When the Government writes in the 2005 draft government budget that the one-off fee has been designed, inter alia: in order to motivate a more safe and environmentally friendly car park, it must be a paradox that the same one-off charge has led to one of the oldest, most dangerous and least environmentally friendly car parks in Europe in Norway. The State budget did not contain any measures to renew the car park, which would be an important environmental measure on the part of the car. The Norwegian car park has an average age of 10.3 years, and it is increasing. As a result, hundreds of thousands of cars still have no catalyst for exhaust gas cleaning. Newer cars are both cleaner and safer than old ones. In recent years there has been a raging development of passive safety in the car, and it should not be the case that Norwegian drivers have to drive around in more road-hazardous cars than drivers in other countries because of the high charges. In 1996 the conversion of charges was based on the assumption that the weight component would be responsible for approx. 45 pst. the one-off charge on typical family cars. The weight of such cars was then estimated to be approx. 1 100 kg. After that time, the weight of such cars has increased by 50 to 100 kg, significantly as a result of increased safety in the structure itself, but also as a result of new safety equipment such as airbags, anti-lock brakes, etc. This was largely expensive extra equipment before the fee conversion. The increase in weight has led to the weight component for family cars now accounting for around 60 pst. of the one-off fee. The current rates have resulted in a significant unintended burden on safety equipment. In addition, the progress in power and engine volume in the charging gas system is exacerbated. This particularly affects families with children who depend on larger cars, which necessarily also have a larger engine. As a result, many families with children are forced to choose small, old and significantly more dangerous cars, which do not adequately meet the family’s transport needs. This has been assessed by a working group, but the government, as expected, came back to the Storting to do nothing. The environmental part is not in the purchase of a car, but in use. If you buy a car that is large and heavy, with a large engine, you have to buy more petrol or more diesel, and pay through it. The best environmental policy will therefore be to lower the user charges so that the car fleet is renewed. Unfortunately, the response from the government council was expected: nothing should be done. Now, of course, I'm going to decorate the government, because something has been done about hybrid cars, both the weight, the battery package and the electric motor, but they're still expensive. We therefore believe that we have to let these cars into the collective field, so that you can get more benefits. It should be a goal that you get more people to ask for these cars, so that the market makes you produce more cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e417	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing this matter, which I consider important. It gives us an opportunity to address the total environmental emissions from the transport sector, which are growing in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, and which, fortunately, have fallen in terms of lead and some other components. The discussion we are starting from is that we want Norway to have a comprehensive charging policy and other policies that promote environmentally friendly technology development. We have been far ahead in the case of an electric car. We've managed to get tools that stimulate people to buy an electric car. Today there is access to an electric car and not a lack of demand which means that there are no more of them driving around in Oslo streets. I want to summarise it as a relatively positive development and things that have been done well in Norway. So we've been betting on what's called zero-emission cars. I have probably been among those who have hoped that the development would go faster than it has, even in the case of fuel cells, also in the case of hydrogen. I still want to say that I think it is exciting, and I think it is good that we have the hydrogen investment that we made in connection with the state budget. The fact that we might be able to drive a hydrogen car from Stavanger to Gothenburg is an exciting development. What, on the other hand, is the challenge in this debate is not whether to give hybrid technology special conditions, but whether to manage to connect an instrument that also means that we have measures to promote what we have to call the low-carbon cars. For the problem today is that there is a very large voltage between a normal car and an electric car, and then there are quite a lot of cars in the middle of it that are approaching zero-emission cars, but still have to be called low-emission cars. I'm a little disappointed with the answer from the Council of State. So, if we have any tools, have we put together our charging system so that we can also promote the development of low-carbon cars, so that these are the ones we'll be able to see many of for the next five to ten years? It's a prosthetic problem in the capital. I'm also skeptical about just saying be so good, into the collective field. But I'd like to send one challenge to the Council of State, for me it's going to be a paradox: if you live in the Bærum – and I'm sorry, bearer, because I say it – have a minibus and drive one person in that minibus, a few people will use the collective field, but if a low-emission car is running, you shouldn't. I don't want to give any blank authorization here and now, but at least I want to ask the Council of State to take that issue back and see if we can help also improve the presence in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e428	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is pursuing a policy that actively contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. Transition to alternative fuels will help reduce pollutant emissions from the transport sector. It's right, as the interpellantan Ausdal Starrfelt claims, that it's a political task to stimulate the least polluting vehicle possible. In the 2005 budget, therefore, we doubled the investment in alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies to 22.6 million. kr. These means shall primarily focus on projects aimed at facilitating the use of hydrogen, fuel cells and zero-emission technologies in the transport sector. It is in order to reduce polluting emissions from the transport sector that a number of measures have also been implemented to promote environmentally friendly cars. Electric cars and hydrogen vehicles based on fuel cell technology have a one-off charge, zero rate for VAT, free parking at public places, free passage in bombing rings and the ability to drive in public fields. In the case of hybrid cars, the Christian People's Party agrees that cars with this type of technology can be a transition towards zero-emission cars. Hybrid technology gives us valuable experience and price reduction of the most important components that can be included in future zero-emission cars, regardless of whether you use electricity or hydrogen as an energy carrier. However, we believe that the most important thing is to stimulate the use of hydrogen and fuel cells and zero-emission technologies. This is an important transport policy task. But we have to remember that there are waiting lists for these hybrid cars. We must avoid this type of car going into the collective fields at the expense of public transport, when these areas are already heavily burdened.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e439	I want to join those who have previously given praise to the interpellant to address such an important theme. Car use accounts for a not insignificant proportion of air pollution, and therefore it is important to stimulate the use of environmentally friendly cars. However, if such cars are to be used up, the first thing they need is access to the cars. Today, just accessing cars is a minimum factor. There is absolutely little production of environmentally friendly cars, both electric cars and hybrid cars. A larger production – mass production – could make cars cheaper and therefore more attractive in purchasing. However, it is not only the cost of purchasing that is significant, it must also be made attractive to use environmentally friendly cars. Incentive schemes can be entirely decisive for the possible use of such cars, and I therefore support the assessment of different types of cars that are environmentally friendly when it comes to debt participation in incentive schemes. But I argued that there are clear requirements for the emission level before the cars get part of the incentive schemes. This could be done, for example, by: not so that only one car uses both an electric motor and an internal combustion engine for propulsion, then the car should be called environmentally friendly, it must be emitted at the bottom of that assessment. However, I agree with the Council of State that incentives should be technologically independent. The emission level is important. New technologies in the future will provide new environmentally friendly cars, but we don't just have to sit and wait for those cars to come. This should not prevent hybrid cars which meet the emission requirements of environmentally friendly cars and which are specifically addressed by this interpellation from being assessed in the incentive schemes. But, as I said, it's important for me that it's the emission level that's at the bottom, and not the technology, if it doesn't meet the requirements we have to set.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e447	It is certain that a future with a greater number of hybrid cars will require roads. It is certain that a future with a large number of hybrid cars will also be a future containing accidents on the road. So this isn't a debate that kind of solves the problems. But when the topic of hybrid cars is addressed, it's because we're all looking to find different solutions on the road to zero emissions, which help to reduce pollution. That's what the hybrid car is doing in many ways. The specificity of the hybrid car is so interesting that the authorities that formulate the targets also have to ask themselves whether they can be a contributor to removing the obstacles faced by hybrid cars in a market alone. The inter-pellant's issues are all about those things. Then we can quickly see the problems, or we can construct the problems. Explosive success of hybrid cars will lead to problems in the collective fields if hybrid cars are to be released. But I strongly doubt that this is the situation we will first meet. But if an opening for driving these cars in the collective fields can help to stimulate people's interest in buying these types of cars, yes, it must be an instrument. It is also important for us to discuss the charging issue in this context, not because we are going to change our idea of charging policy, but because this will be an instrument that in a socio-economic context will be profitable for the country. This is where the challenges are formulated, and then it must be an encouragement for the Council of State to record that, in December last year, the City Council of Oslo asked the City Council to put forward a case for the introduction of a scheme in which the collective fields are more given an environmental function, whereby these fields are reserved for public transport and vehicles with zero emissions or very low environmental emissions. The establishment of such environmental fields must be based on three main principles: that the availability of public transport must always give priority to the emission limit for which vehicles can use the environment should be so low as to promote technology that the boundaries are based on emission parameters that are technology-neutral And then that's what this interpellation tried to invite the Council of State to say, "Yes, we'll try this."
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e470	It's true, as it says in the interpellation, that it's important to stimulate the use of environmentally friendly cars. In this connection, I dare remind the assembly that of the world's CO2 emissions, the total is 95,5 pst. natural emissions, while only 4,5 pst. is man-made. The passenger car is responsible for 0,2 pst., or 2 per mille, of the total emissions, while the truck is responsible for 3 per mille. The statement in the interpellation is: ‘Vehicle is a significant source of environmentally harmful waste gases’. It's a truth with modifications. As politicians, as the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld puts it, we must stimulate vehicles to be as polluting as possible. We agree. But the answer is very simple, that. Today's technology in car and engine manufacturing has led to the modern cars polluting very little. It also applies to today's diesel engines. The particular high levels of Norwegian motor vehicle import charges mean that the average age of cars in Norway is now closer to 11 years, while in Norway the average age is well below that of Norway. Only Turkey has an equally high average age in its car park. A reduction in import charges will be the instrument most likely to help renew the Norwegian car fleet with more environmentally friendly cars with reduced pollution. The hydrogen car will not be able to operate for more than 20 to 30 years at the earliest and will thus not be able to make a positive contribution in the coming years. The hybrid solution, on the other hand, is interesting, assuming that this type of car is granted further reduced import charges. Nor should it be forgotten that large and heavy hybrid cars provide greater fuel reduction and environmental impact. In addition, we agree that the collective fields are opened up for hybrid cars in the same way as for the electric car. We support the Labour Party in this, and it could well be a majority solution if it is promoted as a proposal later on. A conclusion to this is that with a political will to reduce the import charges on motor vehicles and thereby obtain a newer car fleet, environmental pollution in transport could be drastically reduced — and they will be reduced rapidly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e488	I thank you for your commitment to the cause. I'm happy for positive feedback, actually from the outside left to the outside right. It's not that often. It seems that we agree on the goal of reducing emissions, after what has been said. So I wonder: do we agree that low-speed cars are better than other cars and should be stimulated? I'm now a little bit in doubt. I'm aware that the only measure, 25 pst. reducing the one-time charge, making a break, but that's not enough. There can't be 50,000 for the most current cars in Norway, because that's how high the charges are, after all. What I'm disappointed about is that the Council of State didn't bring anything new. I didn't say that nothing was done, but the little thing that was done, we knew about, and I was hoping that the council would now agree that we should do a little more. We need something more than 25 pst. in reducing the one-off charge, we need some new measures. We believe that one of the easiest things to do with is access to the collective fields. It is a rather restrictive good, and it should be – it should be. Although not everything can be in an interpellation of twelve lines, or something like that, I said in my post that we've used the hybrid car as an example, because that's the one that's most topical now, but we see that the criteria are going to be technology neutral. So if there's a petrol engine or a diesel engine that produces as low emissions as these requirements at any given time, it's going to apply to them too – i.e. environmentally friendly cars. In the longer term, I ask the Council of State to look at the other measures as well. The electric car is exempt from the entrance fee and from the annual fee, he has zero VAT rate, he has reduced the rate on the preferential tax on the company car, he has free parking in public space, he has reserved parking spaces in private car parks, the bombing is free, so he has access to the collective field. It's a lot, and it should also be appreciated for the other environmentally friendly cars. And I'm also, as I said in my post, along with the representative Sørensen in that if it's so crowded in these collective fields, one should rather take away those who run alone in a big minibus, because it's at least not environmentally friendly, but it's the opposite. So at least I hope that's what the Council of State is looking at. I want to say, dear councillor, don't let the best be the good of his enemy, for the best is coming in so very, very many years. Let's do what's possible right now! Join and push even better solutions, but give a chance to the hybrid cars – fast!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e505	There is a warm left-heart to hear that there is so much consensus that it is important to reduce environmental emissions from the transport sector. I hope that in the further debates that should be, we too can have a clear searchlight on it. I referred to what is inside both in terms of research and development, and in terms of fees, and that is quite a lot. A tax reduction of NOK 50 000 on a new car compared to the normal combustion engine solution, I would say, is a significant amount. Those who are concerned about and have strong feelings about the level of fees in Norway may say that 50 000 kroner in fees are a significant contribution. I would also like to stress that in order to address the major urban challenges we have, where we have to bet on public transport, I will also be very aware in the work ahead that it is primarily public transport that we are creating in the collective sector. But we have now also provided for zero-emission cars, to which this government took the initiative. We've had a test order in Oslo and Akershus, which we've seen a positive development because of. And if you talk to people, you hear that there are many people who are interested in buying an electric car for urban use, but the availability of cars is too poor. So as I see it right now, the challenge is not that there is too little incentive on the part of the authorities, but that the availability of cars is too low. Then I fully agree that there are cars in the collective field today that we should consider whether maybe not to hear at home in the collective field. I'm going to follow up on that. It is important that people just perceive that the collective field is there to stimulate people to travel collectively and with the purest environmental technology we have in transport. I take with me the consensus that you have to take the environment seriously – maybe someone takes it more seriously than others. Both in budgetary terms and in relation to research and development, we must carry this with us all the time. Then, in the annual budgets, we are going to come back to what can be done by stimulation otherwise in terms of financial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e520	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e534	The use of belt wagons in Norway is very limited. As a result of the new Act on Professional Transport of 21 June 2002, which entered into force on 1 January 2003, there is no longer any possibility of authorising regular services by coach. This operation is thus fully governed by the Motor Traffic Act and the corresponding national regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the outland and on ice watercourses. The Motor Traffic Act has as its starting point the prohibition on motorised out-landing and watercourses, unless otherwise provided for by the Act itself or by decisions based on the Act. Thus, as a consequence of the amendment of the law, the use of belt wagons for the carriage of passengers was prohibited, as such traffic was no longer subject to route routes and was therefore interpreted as pure pleasure driving. I also show that in Innst. O. No 66 for 2001-2002 on the Act on the Professional Transport of Motor Vehicles and Ships reads: ‘It is natural and sufficient, at the discretion of the Ministry, that all carriage by belt-car is assessed in relation to the law on motor travel in land and watercourses, without requiring specific rights under the professional traffic laws for regular services.’ This interprets the proposers as meaning that the Government wants to simplify the rules for the use of belt wagons and not that the Storting actually wants to prohibit it. At Hövringen in Gudbrandsdalen, there has been a gentle ride for about 60 years in short periods of winter. This is an integral part of the business in the hilly region of Hövringen, which marginally manages to maintain many rural jobs and necessary infrastructure. The tourism industry in Hövringen specialises in environmental tourism where nature and tranquility are important sales arguments. The headroom is free of ski facilities and noisy nightlife. The use of the belt wagons has been a means of bringing young children on a ski trip in the mountains, or let the elderly and Danes enjoy the magnificent nature without any special ski skills. The use of a belt car on Hövringen is therefore a commercial service undertaken by residents in an acquisition sense in order to ensure the operation of the hotel and for which authorisation may be granted under the law. With a lack of political will to recognise this, the tourist industry in the area of the future fears. They know from experience how important the carriages are in order to offer tourists access to the grand natural experience they want to have. Finally, it would be of great interest to get the views of the Council of State on how it might be in the interests of the environment to prohibit these two belt wagons when the option would be to break the road and open up to general traffic by car. Breaking the road and letting in thousands of cars is therefore OK, and it is allowed today, while two belt wagons that have gone there for 50 years, that is, an environmental sin. Finally, I refer you to the proposal, which is on page 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e561	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has done a great deal of good for the cause, for the background of the Progress Party's proposal. There is therefore a proposal from the Progress Party to instruct the Government to make changes to the regulations, a proposal that has been presented directly here in the Chamber without consideration in the Committee. In this situation, it should be in the Council of State's interest to clarify whether he will find a solution so that in the future it may also be possible to carry ski tours with belt cars. I want to start by challenging the Council of State just at that, and ask him to clarify whether the Government and the Council of State themselves will find a solution in relation to regulatory changes in order to be able to open up this transport, because, as Nistad was in it, this is something that may particularly affect the transportation of a belt car at Hövringen, a transport that has been going on since 1947. They've got a belt car that's about a few miles in the mountains, and they're pulling ski tourists in a very environmentally friendly way, in such a way that you can't cross the borders of the national park area. When the law on professional transport was changed in 2002, I don't think there was any intention in this house to ban this transport. As I said, it goes over 5 kilometers and to a limited extent. It has been a great commitment, for example: has a collection of 1,200 signatures to allow them to keep up with this transport. Local newspapers in the Lillehammer region have been involved, understandably, for their tasks are in many ways to take their interests into account in the region when it comes to business and business development, and it has, as Nistad had in mind, importance for the tourism industry at Hövringen. Someone would say that this is some kind of heia Norway thing, among other things. because a seat known as Beautiful Sea Seats is one mile away from Hövringen and carriage of goods by belt-car is permitted. The department says it's OK that they also take along ski tours. It opens up that if they want to circumvent the legislation, Hövringen Hövjellshotell can transport a milk carton or two just to carry ski tourists inwards. They don't, because they want a real relationship with this, and it's respectable enough. The Council of State says in an answer to me that one has no jurisdiction in regulations to open up to this transport. If the Council of State no thinks that there should be the possibility of this transport, I think he has a choice. It is to propose to amend the regulations. If he thinks that this transport should be prohibited, he should say it in plain language. Tests on motor travel in outland areas conducted in eight municipalities are also shown, and the Council of State will review the entire legislation and legislation following the evaluation of that experiment. This should come quite quickly. I hope that the Council of State here can now say that he has an intention to change the regulations, so that this belt-car transport, among other things. on the court may become a possibility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e578	As I have done in the past, it follows from the new Act on Professional Transport, which entered into force on 1 January 2003, that there is no longer any possibility of granting licences for regular services by taxi. This operation is now fully regulated by the motor traffic laws and the corresponding national regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the off-road and on the on-road watercourses. The Motor Traffic Allowance does not prevent the necessary movement for recognised useful purposes. In the sense of the law on motor travel, the carriage of ski tourists by rail is not a recognised purpose, and therefore the promises do not initially open up for such transport. Transport necessary for the operation of tourist facilities not connected to broken roads is permitted. People are allowed to sit on when they are supposed to transport anyway. In a circular to the law, it is stated that the transport of guests to the tour is not permitted. Thus, under the current law and regulations, it is not possible to grant permission for the carriage of belt cars. If it is to be opened for such carriage by belt-car, the laws of the motor vehicle and/or national regulation must be amended or a special regulation must be laid down for this type of transport. I would like to point out that the administrative law requires that the cases are sent out to the hearing, and that it is therefore not possible to make a change before the Easter holiday this year. I have today received confirmation from the Ministry of Justice. Motor vehicle traffic legislation is currently subject to a pilot project in eight municipalities. The test is planned to be completed and evaluated in 2005. During the trial period, there have been many proposals on legislative changes, on both stricter and more liberal rules. All those who have made proposals for changes, such as municipalities, individuals or others, have come up with the idea that a change cannot be expected until the pilot project is completed. in May 2005. After the evaluation, an entire review of the recordings will be done. We are familiar with the arguments from among others. Hövringen Hövjellshotell. I would also say that there are many good arguments. Through this process, I hope we can arrive at a satisfactory solution for Hövringen Hövjellshotell, a process we start now when the pilot project is finished. It's ended on May 1st, then we start a process. Then we'll look at all of these sections, and then come back to change. That process I hope to make it possible to find a satisfactory solution for Hövringen Hövfjellshotell.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e596	The Council of State referred to the consultation legislation as the reason why he could not do anything before Easter. That's where I think the Council of State is wrong. If he reads the consultation instructions, he will see that there are exceptions for special cases. It would be completely pointless to send something to the hearing if the Storting had taken a decision. So we would have to go to the hearing on the decision of the Storting! That's an absurd situation. If Stortinget adopts the proposal in Document No. 8:56, there is more than enough authority in the consultation instructions to exempt this from consultation. There is no one who would accuse the Council of State of doing anything wrong because he is implementing a big decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e601	As I said in my post, I'm now busy getting a good process. We have now received a very large number of reports about changes to the motor traffic laws. This is one of the changes we're now making. We are about to close a project. After it's over, we'll go through it and see what changes we're going to make, and then come back to it. When it comes to the question raised by Mr. Carl I. Hagen, I will refer you to the dialogue with the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, where a mere reference to the need to have a normal hearing when we have to change a regulation. I will show you that there will also be a need in this matter. It's going to be a change that affects the environment, and that's why we're forced to follow the guidelines. I am forced to preserve the integrity of the process, and refer to the contact I have had with the Ministry of Justice today to clarify this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e608	I had a clear question to the Council of State instead, whether he thinks it is better that one should break the road to Easter and send in thousands of cars right at the national park than that the two carriages, which have gone there for 50 years, should go there. Does he see any environmental savings with that? It's the opposite of environmental savings that the Council of State is in favour here. One more thing: I think this is pretty grotesque – and now I use that word – when a company has been using these for 50 years, and the Council of State is about to shut down this company. Is that how this government will build Building Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e615	As I said in my post, I found the Hövringen Hövjellshotell to have presented many good arguments. It is also the background that I want to look at this matter when we see it in a context. However, there are many changes, some going in a more liberal direction, but we also need stricter regulations. We see that motor travel in general is a bigger and bigger problem in nature. I point out here that I want to look at this. I also say that I want to find a good solution for the Hövringen, and that there should be a satisfactory solution. I also said that in my introductory reply. That answer is, of course, firm, but I want to go in and pre-process this case, but I have given a clear signal through what I said in my introductory reply here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e620	I'm going to try to be calm and not too engaged, but I actually think that the council here is responding unusually clumsy to what he's really trying to get. I think it would be totally wrong that regulatory changes are adopted in Stortinget in the way that the Progress Party is now presenting it. But seriously, if it is that the Council of State will arrive at the best possible solution for this place, where traffic has been going on for 50 years, and it should be right, as Carl I. Hagen says, that the Council of State can change the regulation, then the Council of State should say that it will add up, so that this company's interests are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e628	As I said, according to the current law and the regulations, it will not be possible to grant permission for the belt-car transport. If you want to allow this option, we need to change the system tray icon. Then we're forced to have a proper process, and I'm going to add it up here. There was an inconvenience between the representative Hagen and me whether such a process was necessary. There I recall the clear advice I received from the Department of Justice, which says it will be necessary. One may, in certain cases, disregard the hearing. I don't think that's the basis for this. It may be impracticable, if it may be difficult to implement the regulation or if it impairs its effectiveness, or one may have to look at it as being unnecessary. Here I have received an assessment from the Ministry of Justice. Of course, I stick to that recommendation and will look at the matter together and carry out the necessary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e635	So now the Council of State itself confirmed that there was the possibility of waiving this with the Consulting Institute, and especially if, as he probably said at the end, there were very special reasons, and the special reason is if the Storting makes a decision. So there is no question about anything other than the will and wish of the Council of State. If the government council recommends that the parties vote in favour of our proposal, I am convinced that the Workers' Party and the Centre will do the same, and then no one will agree to send a roll-call decision, which will be implemented quickly, which is a bit of the intention, at the hearing. The conditions referred to by way of derogation in the consultation guide are then met. So it's only for the council to recommend the government parties to vote in favour of the proposal in Document No. 8:56, then this case will have a reasonable solution and not a non-solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e640	Councillor Hareide does not wish to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e643	I believe that the Council of State could have solved this matter if he had now in clear text said that his intention and will are to change the regulations, so that it would be possible to operate this belt-car transport of skiturists. I understand that he can't say anything 100 pst. safe, but have to resume a hearing and the recordings that come, if one thinks that the administrative laws require it, and there are questions about it, but at least it must be allowed for the Council of State to say what his declared will in this matter is. My question to the Council of State was, in fact, whether the Council of State sees a possibility of granting a derogation, even if he does not see the possibility of allowing such execution permanently with current regulations and legal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e652	When it comes to the question from the representative Rudihagen about granting a waiver, I would say it won't be possible according to the legislation we have today. That's why I don't have the possibility to grant a derogation. But it is clear that I want to look at the possibility of a regulation change, and I have also said in my first post that I want to get a solution that is satisfactory for Hövringen Høvfjellshotell. Then I have to follow the administrative laws. Then I am forced to have the rounds in relation to the hearing. There is no basis on the advice I received from the Ministry of Justice today to bypass that legislation. So I have given a clear signal that I want a solution to the matter. I have said that I want to follow the administrative laws, so I do not have the option under today's legislation to grant a derogation without changing the regulations. And that's the process I want to start in a clean and good way, but I also want to find a solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e657	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e660	I believe that the Minister for the Environment suggests that he wants to find a solution to the matter, and it seems that SV makes sense. Nor can we agree with what the Progress Party puts forward, simply to instruct the Government in such a matter as this, by making a regulatory change that involves much more than the consequences only for the Hövringen, and that is the proposal of the Progress Party. This proposal is not specifically about the Hövringen – it is about deregulation in the whole area, and it cannot be included. We also note that the Council of State wants to have a clean process in the future in relation to the evaluation to be carried out in relation to the experimental communities, and he also supports us in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e667	This is in many ways a somewhat boring matter. It's a boring matter for them the framework, especially because the changes in the laws they're affected might not have been supposed to hit like that. It is also a boring matter for the reputation of environmental protection in Building Norway, because it is not understandable. It is not easy to communicate to those who live in this area. It's actually very hard to understand, not only for those who are directly affected, but I also think too many who live in this area. Why on earth shouldn't it be possible to drive a belt car, as you've been doing for 58 years? Why in the world should one not be able to continue with a business that – frankly – is very difficult to see as particularly hostile to the environment. When we're working on our field, and when we're working on environmental protection, it's important that we work in a way that makes people understand, and that makes people feel ownership of what we're working on. That, I think, is an important perspective in this matter. A lot has been said about the business at Hövringen. I'm not going closer to it. But I think that driving weasel, even in other cases than for Hövringen's part, is about a kind of tourism that many of us are happy to be there. It is a type of tourism that is not covered by large slabs and the type of environmental intervention that we often see is the theme when we expand our tourist areas. I think the Council of State deserves tribute because in his post and in his reply to the lines he has given a clear signal that he wants to do his utmost to find satisfactory solutions. It would not be natural that the Government in a matter like this was given a detailed instruction by Stortinget. I don't think that can be necessary either when we've received as clear a signal from the Council of State as we have. But I want to cost myself a little heart attack. When we see what we've evolved into by formalities and law-enforcement comics, and how thorny and complicated the way out is, I must say that I think it gives cause for reflection. I want to do the words that the head of the parish council in a southern village once said, to mine. When the parish priest apologized for the fact that Jesus too drank wine, the council replied, "We weigh it, but we don't like it." I think it's a little like that with this case as well. The Council of State has presented in an excellent way the path of formalities, through which we have to go. Yes, we know that, but we don't like it to be so difficult, and that it has to be such a long way to sort out something that is initially an obvious incurrency. I think the Council of State has answered very satisfactorily the questions raised, and I trust that the Department under the leadership of the Council of State will help us to find a good solution for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e684	I understand that the Council of State wants a clean process, and that the Council of State wants to deal with the applicable guidelines for regulatory changes. In spite of that, I must say that in this case I do not believe that it serves the purpose that the Council of State is looking for, neither in relation to the environment nor in relation to getting an understanding of the matter. This is a transport that has been going on for many years. There's a transport on an unbroken road. In fact, it could have been infused on this road. It could have sent in hundreds, perhaps thousands, of cars, with the environmental pressures it would cause, both in relation to drilling and in relation to the situation in which it would then come. At the same time, the Council of State says that it is okay to transport goods, and that you would like to carry passengers when you transport goods. This will be with respect to reporting completely meaningless. Now there is a large majority in the Storting asking that this matter be resolved in remembrance. Neither will the Centre Party be involved in making regulatory changes in this room, but the ball is now at the Council of State. I find it difficult to see that the Council of State will in some way subsequently be charged with the possibility of resolving this matter for a limited period of Easter, and then in the next round to come back with regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e693	This seems to be a rather unfortunate matter. The majority of the majority of the population is quite clear in the view that it should be able to find its solution in remembrance, so that tourism activities could also have the opportunity to practice what has been practised in the past, without creating the major environmental problems. It is quite obvious that the impact of the legislative decision on this area has at least been unintentional. On the other hand, I have to say that I have a great deal of respect for what the Council of State says, that he cannot take the initiative to change the regulation and thus break good governance. The same principle should also be followed by the Stortinge. I think it would be very regrettable if Stortinget were to make a regulatory change on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals without further consideration. I hear that the Council of State says that he has understood it so that he has no possibility of granting a derogation or otherwise granting such a permit. But I would strongly urge the Council of State to contact the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice to see if there is no possibility that this matter could be resolved in amicably before Easter, without the Stortinge had to instruct the Council of State to do so. It is then necessary to carry out consultation rounds on the general understanding of motor travel in the countryside, and to gain views from both those who are environmentally aware, and others – and ‘others’ – I also believe that the tourism industry that is interested in ensuring the environment in a sensible way, but also wants to make reasonable use of the natural resources that Norway has. I strongly advise the Labour Party to vote in favour of the proposal put forward here today, but on the other hand I would strongly urge the Council of State to examine all possibilities, so that the intention of the Stortinge and what is clearly the will of the majority of the population can be implemented in a sensible and proper manner within the framework that both the legislation and the regulations advocate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e710	My honourable fellow committee member stated that the Council of State has informed that he does not have the opportunity to do what I clearly interpret as that a clear majority in the Stortinget wants. Then, in reality, Stortinget may have an opportunity to help the Council of State, by simply giving the Council of State an opportunity that he has not found himself, because he claims that he has looked for an opportunity to do this, but that he is stopped by some lawmakers. If Stortinget takes the decision that I understand Jørgen Kosmo really doesn't want, but he agrees with purposefully, it will obviously be unnecessary to send anything to the hearing in order to make a regulation change. The Council of State has stated that he has found no other option than a regulatory change. So the size can give him the opportunity to make a regulatory change without any consultation, with a large-scale decision proposed here. So I would like to ask the representative Kosmo: why does he not want to give the Council of State the opportunity and an excuse to do what the representative Kosmo thinks the Council of States should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e715	I don't think the Storting should help the state councils break the administrative law rules or break good administrative practices. I do not think it is an instrument that the Storting should use, that the Storting, in order to avoid allowing people, on a general basis, their views to be reflected through hearings on important regulations and legislative provisions, avoids the consultation deadlines imposed by adopting an instructional decision. In my opinion, this will be abusing the power of the Storting. Therefore, instead, I encourage the Council of State to make an effort to find other solutions to get the Storting into a case where it is absolutely clear what the majority of the Storing believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e720	The President suspects that there are a number of representatives going out and driving a belt car in the Easter! Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e725	This is a strange thing. As many people have been in this room now, it is destructive to the reputation of environmental protection. The mood in the hall is ready. There is nothing to suggest that this track ride to the Hövringen should be stopped. It should be able to continue and, in particular, when this journey actually has less impact than the alternative, namely to open the road to general traffic. I would also strongly urge the Minister for the Environment to find the natural solution to this matter within the space of action that actually exists, which, among other things, exists. the President has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e730	As I said before, I want to start a work to get a satisfactory solution for Hövringen Hövjellshotell. The President-in-Office asked me to take a round to see if we can get a solution before Easter. I will, of course, but I would like to remind you that I had done a pre-work today. It became very clear that I can't give a dispensation. It would be a violation of administrative law if we sent this out without a hearing. Of course, I want to do what the President-in-Office asked me to do here. I also thought that this proposal would take place, but I do not want to create any greater expectations. I have done a pre-work before I came here today, precisely on the basis of the wish that the staging president had, but I want to do what the staging president asked for in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e735	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e743	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e751	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6-8, by Mr Voksdal on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9–16, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left Party proposals No. 17 and 18, from Eli Sollied Upperaas on behalf of the Center Party Proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Center Party, is being taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e791	Proposals Nos. 9–10 and 12–16, from the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e865	Proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e897	Proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e955	There is an alternative proposal from the Socialist Left, no. 11th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to entrust Statnett or another State company with the task of entering into concrete discussions with the industry with a view to realizing the pipeline for the transport of gas to Grenland. However, such a solution is conditional on CO2 management and capture, as well as the realisation of offshore CO2 injection projects and thereby reductions in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e1014	During the debate, Eli Sollied Överaas put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Flood-restructuring and flood-cleaning shall be fully covered by the State. The change shall include the flood damage after the large floods that struck parts of More and Romesdal and South Trøndelag in 2003 and 2004.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e1054	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ownership of Posten Norway AS is transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e1073	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e1085	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e1092	The proposal in Document No. 8:56, from the towering representatives Øyvind Vaksdal, Øyvind Korsberg, Kenneth Svendsen and Thore A. Nistad, is taken up for a vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to amend immediately the necessary regulations so as to permit the use of a coach for the carriage of passengers in the same way as before the entry into force of the new Professional Transport Act of 21 June 2002.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-2.ana.ud1813e1114	There is no record.
