ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e35	The President will propose the election of two presidents of Odelsting's meetings today and for the remainder of the spring session – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are unanimously elected as presidents of Odelstinget’s meetings today and for the remainder of the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e51	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Socialist Left Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e60	In its proposal, the Ministry of Transport proposes amendments to the rail law to facilitate competition in agreements on rail passenger transport. It shares the Committee's views. A majority support the proposals of the Ministry of Transport, and a minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, are opposed. As the rapporteur, I could have taken on the great task of fully explaining the majority's views. However, I have come to the conclusion that it does enough of the representatives of the majority themselves in a better way than I would be able to do. I would therefore like to focus on going through the points in the configuration that the minority has come to, and those parts of the setting that the whole committee is behind. And then I'll start with the last one. The Committee has underlined that the level of safety remains a responsibility of authority regardless of the legislative changes currently being made and that it needs to be established irrespective of whether there are one or more road users on the network. The minority is critical of what the Government adds. One is also critical because this happens without an investigation into the overall impact of this on Norwegian railway. Track launching will be parallel to the privatisation of large operational and maintenance tasks at the Railway Station. These major conversions are also carried out without impact assessments being carried out. The minority believes that this is unfortunate in order to ensure full safety, to ensure a high quality and to ensure the rights of employees. We also want to point out that the same kind of parallel conversions we've had in aviation. There is reason to warn, in view of the problems encountered in aviation, that the same should be done with the railway. The minority do not share the Government’s belief that a notified competitive outsourcing of all passenger services will ensure jobs, stimulate innovation and strengthen Norwegian railways in the long term. Nor are we presented with experience suggesting that an exclusive right to operate single sections over a long period will help to achieve the objectives to which the Ministry of Transport refers. The minority would also point out that there are many unanswered questions as to whether the railway could function as a coherent transport service in the future. It is worth noting that Norway is a small, long-term country, where it is important to coordinate and make optimal use of limited resources. The minority considers that there are significant economies of scale, cost-efficiency and synergies associated with further developing NSB AS as a national integrated passenger transport operator. The minority also refers to what was written about the issue in the national transport plan, but must note that we are a minority and that there is a majority for this competitive outlook. The minority is deeply concerned about what's happening to the NSB. We would like to stress that it is particularly important to contribute to the fact that NSB AS is a strong national transport company, and that the NSB is not clipped, as the government states in the bill. We refer in particular to the proposals made by Section 7b to open a unilateral obligation for NSB AS to place rolling stock at the disposal of competing companies that win tenders, and Section 7c to open a unilateral obligation for owners of workshop infrastructure – and it is only the NSB that has today – to make it available to competing companies. These two legislative proposals may have very unfortunate consequences for the NSB’s commercial freedom. They will increase the risk of loss of large societal values and reduce the ability of NSBs to compete on equal terms. The Committee as a whole indicates that the railway has lost terrain compared to private cars, aircraft and express buses. It shows the need for investment in the line, so that Norway too can have a railway infrastructure that is in line with other European countries. I want to add that the combination of competitive outsourcing and poor infrastructure is scary. I might go so far as to say that we would have been less concerned if that was the way the infrastructure was at the top. But combining an old, worn-out infrastructure with a full competitive environment will be a warning against this. The minority believes that there is no evidence of experience and evidence that the type of competition to which it is put in place is positive elsewhere in the world either. The Ministry of Transport writes in its proposal that considerable emphasis has been placed on studying the experience of other countries with the introduction of competition. The minority refers to what the NSB writes in its consultation opinion that ‘no other European country has taken a similar risk as a result of the Ministry’s proposal’. The minority believes that European countries have mixed experiences with railway competitive outsourcing. In Sweden, new operators on the track have gone bankrupt or are struggling on routes where they have won, such as: Connex. Such tenders have a significantly reduced offer for passengers and increased pressure on employees. Experience from the United Kingdom, which was early outsourced to competition, is that they now have Europe’s most expensive rail operation, after going a long way in privatisation and outsourcing. The aftermath and maintenance are very large, and the operation and infrastructure have now been brought back to the public. The minority will also refer to the proposition and stress that it is not about competition on the track, but that we are talking about competition on the track. That is, it is added to large packages to compete for exclusive rights. The minority fears that the investments made by the NSB in rolling stock, which in recent years amount to more than NOK 5 billion, may be lost in the scheme that the Government is now adding up to. There is an overall committee that will underline the need for mutual travel information and the sale of tickets between two or more companies operating rail passenger services, and would also point out that travel information between all companies operating different types of public transport would make it easier for us as a public passenger. There is also an overall committee that is concerned with accessibility on the railway. The organisations of disabled people have been concerned that this should be incorporated into the law now. On the other hand, the Committee asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with regard to universal organisation of disabled persons in the transport sector. The minority is concerned about the competition bureaucracy we see developing. Today, representatives of the government will probably boast that they have saved 10 million dollars. kr that the NSB has been offered on Gjøvikbanen. We have spent many times that amount building up competition competence and bureaucracy both in the NSB, in the Railway Agency and in the Ministry of Transport. So far, most of the experience has been that those who have made the most of this are the bureaucrats who are set to administer this so-called competition. However, I would like to say that when the NSB has been offered the Gjøvikbahn, there is reason to congratulate the NSB on that. I also have no great fear of what the consequences will be for the actual operation of the Gjøvik track. What's more cause for concern, on the other hand, is if you go on with Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen, and that's the overall impact of the railway system as such. When that happens, it is likely that competition bureaucracy will also grow further. Finally, I register that even the Evening Post seems to be going too far in terms of competitive outsourcing on the railway. They wrote in their leader recently: ‘Competition and outsourcing of tasks are not necessarily the best means of getting better and cheaper public services. Some tasks are, in fact, the best and most accurate – and not least the cheapest – in their own organisation, although they can in principle be carried out by others.’ They're asking if the downpour was really that smart, they say, and they're looking at the railway station. When the blue lights flash even in the evening position leader’s column, there is reason to be concerned about the outsourcing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e101	It's basically a big deal we're dealing with today. It is a pity that there is no one in the press department, because in addition to being a major issue, it is a matter of principle and a matter that shows the dividing lines in Norwegian policy. Those who want to learn more about it can read the setting, which is very clarifying at that point. I want to thank Heidi Sørensen, who has been the case spokesman, and who has not least done a good job for the minority. Our vision has now done well for her. I can stand behind every word Heidi Sørensen said in his post. This setting is probably proof that Bondevik II, well assisted by the Progress Party, has an ideological relation to launching and privatising competition. That's right, and that's going to happen, cost what it's going to cost. I have previously claimed that full competition for investment and operation in the road sector has so far given us no more way or road maintenance for the money, but more bureaucrats. Now we also get a competition bureaucracy in passenger transport on the railway. We in the Labour Party are opposed to this, which probably the Stortinget has understood. We look at facilitating rail transport and rail passenger transport as a societal task. Security is so well integrated in work that it's hard to separate what's about security, and say it's a societal task, and the rest can take care of any other company. We are afraid that when a set of transports is available, a risk may arise of putting security on offer. In addition, the infrastructure is the challenge. For this reason, a number of us have said that we should spend $26 billion to do something about the next ten years. In addition, it has recently been found that the NSB is very competitive by receiving this offer on the Gjøvik track. This would be a good proof that they have managed to change and streamline without being exposed to competition. There's competition about the track we're talking about, not on the track, because we only have one track in most of Norway. We are, in fact, world champions in this area. Granting the right to one or more sections gives a single right, a monopoly, to this section, so that one can cheat on the competition in this way. In addition, we are thus missing the economies of scale for which the case spokesperson did well, by splitting up and by the fact that there are many companies that should be able to operate. So we in the Labour Party think that NSB AS has shown great ability and willingness to convert, and that they're more punctual now than anything. The majority also create a regime that confers on competitors the rights of our own company, by giving competitors the right to both materials and workshops, without being obliged to use them, and by allowing the ministry to enter and review the price at which they arrive. I'm assuming that one does not ask for a legal secret to go in and say that it was too low a price NSB took, that a perceived NSB should take a higher price, but that one thinker price was set too high for the competitors. There are three items that make NSB not similar. It is also risky legal, and I do not understand that the Council of State is taking responsibility for it. It's pretty clear that one doesn't want to follow up on this a little bit better in advance. When a new cover is to be laid on a railway station, the railway supervision must be in place and approved in advance. Now there's a huge shift in Norwegian railway operations, and then you just have to see how things are going, and don't do the evaluations in advance. I would like the Council to state something more about the claims attached to the Constitution § 105, that the NSB cannot be subjected to this review from the Department's side as one now adds. There is a need for a new government, a government that will increase the investment in the railway network, a government that will, of course, continue the Gjøvik Railway, as it is, but that will stop the further deployment of rail passenger transport – then there will be no Bergensbane package and the Südlandsbane package – a government that will review the promise. This case shows that the railway should become an important electoral issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e127	The red-green side is still worried. Today, it's the NSB they're worried about. Every time we make a change, they're worried. Going into politics and being constantly concerned is not the right starting point. We look forward and will be offensive. The left side, the red-green, will return to the past – you should know that. Better provision for passengers and more rail for money is what this proposition is about. In this proposition, the Government presents proposals for legislative changes to facilitate real competition on the railways, on a level playing field. Such opening up to competition on the national network means that persons other than the NSB may be released where they now enjoy exclusive rights. Competition is already the most obvious in aviation, on bus and freight trains. The main objective is to improve the provision of services to users. To achieve this, we need a more efficient transport system. Competition is then an important means. Experience from abroad, including: many years of experience in Sweden, show that competition provides more passengers, more and better rail for the money. What is saved through the use of competition must be used for better rail services. Travelers will continue to receive one ticketing system and information system, irrespective of who is driving the train. The user shall be focused. It is important to strengthen public transport. Passengers shall experience the train provision as transparent and user-friendly. Operators will be granted access to rolling stock, workshops and stations. This is a reasonable resource usage. We can only look at the positive experiences of aviation and the bus industry, where competition has helped to create a diversity with more players who challenge each other to improve. The introduction of competition shall not take place overnight. It shall take place gradually, inter alia: in order to gain experience on the road. The high level of safety on the railway shall be maintained irrespective of who is the operator. It will have a duty to provide for it, and it will verify and contribute to both the State Railway Agency and the State Railway Authority. Security shall have a first priority. Only companies which comply with the safety requirements laid down will have the opportunity to participate in the competition. The development and operation of the railway line network shall continue to be a State responsibility. Today's migration processes help to secure and further develop the railway both as a means of transport for customers and not least as a job. In the Ministry’s work, considerable emphasis has been placed on studying the experience of other countries with the introduction of competition. Countries that are naturally comparable, like Sweden and Denmark, have been successful with the introduction of competition. Nevertheless, there is no recipe or special procedure that should be copied by outsourcing in Norway. It has been chosen to learn from different types of experience. We are not aware that countries that have introduced competition in passenger transport have reversed or do not want to continue this process. The basic law § 105 on compensation does not apply to wholly owned state companies such as NSB. Nevertheless, in terms of access to rolling stock, we are pleased that the Ministry is in dialogue with the NSB to find agreed solutions. Hopefully the NSB will be, as we've seen Mesta become, a competitive player in the market. The NSB will receive full compensation in accordance with the principles of competition law on cost recovery. The Ministry of Transport will have access to the monitoring of the passenger transport market. A fair competition regime shall also be the main objective in this case. It is gratifying that, in the context of the basis of competition for the Gjøvik track and new calls for competition, attention will be paid to improvement measures for persons with reduced mobility. We are confident that Norwegian railway workers will be able to withstand competition on the track. The good offer and the level of service the employees have received from the NSB, they deserve commendation. They've done a hell of a job. Therefore, the NSB will continue to be a large, heavy and important provider of transport services in this country in the future. Finally, I would like to congratulate the NSB Tenders, who won the Gjøvikbanen bidding round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e153	The proposal for amendments to the rail law is a follow-up to previous decisions of the Stortingen to introduce competition with regard to the right to operate passenger services on trains. The launch of such a competition is now under way and NSB Tenders AS won a tender to operate passenger services on the Gjøvik Railway after the Ministry of Transport announced last autumn competition for this traffic. Competition for the operation of passenger trains on the rest of the network will then be announced gradually, initially for the Bergensbane package and then for the Southern Railway Package. The introduction of competition takes place gradually by putting the passenger train offer out of competition in traffic packages over time. It is wise to reap experiences along the way. It is particularly important for the Christian People's Party to underline two elements in this context: state responsibility and security. Public authorities shall continue to be responsible for the execution of the services and that this is done in accordance with strict safety and quality requirements for the provision of services. The development and operation of the railway line network shall continue to be a State responsibility, which shall remain within the State Administrative Agency of the Railway Agency. We also want the Ministry of Transport to have access to the monitoring of the passenger transport market. The Ministry should be empowered to monitor competition and to take active action against market players. In this way, the Ministry will be able to ensure a level playing field. Monitoring by the Ministry of Transport should be carried out in cooperation with other authorities, including: The Competition Authority. So the second element, the most important of all, is security. It is not the case that we have to introduce competition to save money and thus jeopardize railway safety. No, no, no. We are opening up competition on the national rail network so that road users other than the NSB can get out of where the NSB currently enjoys exclusive rights. Mint money will be used to create even better rail services in Norway. The aim is to contribute to more and better rail for the resources used in the sector. Funds saved through the use of competition must be used to improve the supply of the railway. The Christian People's Party believes that competitive outsourcing will only take place if the offer is at least as good as today. It is therefore gratifying to note that, at the time of the first invitation to tender, Gjøvikbanen, production is one third higher than today. There will be newer trains, and it will be arranged for disabled people with wheelchair lifts in all trains. Here comes the slogan "we promise, and we deliver" to its full right. For all competition for the operation of passenger services by train, high safety requirements shall have priority. Only companies which fulfil the safety requirements laid down will have the opportunity to participate in the competition. Thus, the changes in railway legislation do not in any way impair safety on Norwegian railways. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important objective to make collective provision more accessible also to people with different disabilities. We would therefore like to stress that the bill is based on a condition of state purchase, and that access is required for all in such agreements, in the same way as has been done in the context of the Gjøvik track competition, where it has also produced the expected results. An overall committee asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with the issue of universal organisation for disabled people in the transport sector. This is an area in which we must maintain a strong focus. The Christian People's Party supports the Ministry and the Government Attorney's assessments in relation to the Basic Law § 105 with regard to the Ministry's access to oblige the NSB to place at the disposal of other activities rolling stock, sales and distribution systems and other support systems relevant to the operation of passenger transport. The Ministry will not require the provision of train equipment and conditions without prior dialogue with the NSB to find agreed solutions. The detailed rules on conditions and remuneration for making material available will be laid down in the regulations. The regulations will be sent to the interested parties at the hearing in the usual manner. The conditions of any imposition will be set early enough for the NSB to have sufficient financial predictability to be a competitive operator in the market. Finally, the Government proposes otherwise a provision for the introduction of competition in rail passenger transport in accordance with the basic principles of non-discrimination, non-discrimination and transparency. Christian People's Party supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e185	I will first commend the case spokesperson for good and thorough work on the matter, and I will join the main content of what the case spokesperson said. In the present proposition, the Government, while increasing the use of competition, points out that it can be used to provide the best possible transport offer within the framework of the resources it makes available to the public for commercial purposes. At the same time, in the review of experience from other countries, a point has been made that the annual supplement has been reduced. I want to warn you that it's going to be an objective in itself to reduce the state supplement. The level of service purchase must be a result of the services you want, and it must not be a measure of how low the level should be. It is worth noting that the Government provides for long-term competitive delays in passenger transport without eliminating the cumulative effects on Norwegian rail. No documentation is available to show that the expected effect will be due to a competitive postponement. The government has pointed out that considerable emphasis has been placed on studying experience from other countries. However, in the review of experience from other countries included in the proposition, little or nothing has been said about the negative experiences of countries that have been at an early stage out of competition. For negative experience, it has ours. At best, experience from other countries has to be very mixed. Other countries, including Sweden has experienced that the companies that have been awarded contracts have, after some time, gone bankrupt or had major operating problems. This, of course, creates major problems for road users, and there is no good advertising for the railways. Several parts of the proposal point to the achievement of a more efficient transport system as a main objective with a competitive environment. However, it is also important to be aware that competition can be a pressure on quality, maintenance, investment in materials and employment for them to add. This may in the long term lead to reduced regularity and weight security. In Dagens Nyheter, the Swedish Minister of Infrastructure has said, in the light of the experience gained in Sweden, that the government there will not continue to deregulation on the railways. Perhaps Norway should pay more attention to the experience of Sweden? It is strongly underlined in the proposition that there should be equal and non-discriminatory competition in the supply allocation. However, there may be grounds for asking questions as to whether the Government’s proposal for implementation could effectively discriminate against NSB AS in the competition for the track. The legislative proposal opens up extensive access regulations and a unilateral obligation for NSB AS to provide rolling stock and workshop infrastructure for consultation. In contrast, competing companies have not imposed the same obligation to acquire material and workshop services. Quite rightly, it has been said that there is a lack of decent agreements between NSB AS and any other actors, but if there are no decent agreements, compensation is unilaterally determined by the ministry. It must be a premise that the compensation is in full compliance with the requirement of full compensation under the expropriation law principle. In the proposal, it has been said that some aspects of the relationship between transport services are particularly important to meet the needs and wishes of road users, in order to increase traffic. In order to increase the use of trains or other collective means of transport, it is important that it is organised in such a way as to make it as attractive and user-friendly as possible. Users of collective services are concerned that services are tailored to their needs; they are concerned with price and regularity. A collective journey of a certain length often involves more means of transport. Therefore, it is important that not only any different actors on the railways, but also traffic operators on different modes of transport cooperate on route coordination in relation to correspondence, provision of travel information, ticketing systems, travel tickets, etc. This is an area that should be worked on and that should be improved independently of outsourcing or not. Here we have a lot to learn from other countries that have positive experiences, for example. Switzerland, Switzerland. Finally, I just want to sum up the central part's position. After an overall assessment, the centre party will oppose the amendments to the railway laws that facilitate competition for agreements on rail passenger services.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e211	The introduction of competition in rail passenger transport is necessary in order to provide more efficient transport services and to increase the quality, diversity and creativity of the rail sector. This is not least important to users. The aim of the legislative proposal is to facilitate effective competition, on equal terms and with the possibility for all the companies concerned to participate in the competition in a level playing field. This is important to ensure that it is the best agreed to operate the offer for the country. In this way, I believe that we get the most railway for the resources. By facilitating competition, the Government wishes to contribute to strengthening the transport and competitiveness of the railways on routes and within types of transport where the railway has its natural advantage. The Proposition therefore proposes rules enabling the Ministry to lower the barriers to establishment of the companies concerned and to ensure that passengers still experience the railways as a whole transport system, while providing the Ministry with the necessary tools for the planning, management and control of the railway sector. Access will be required for all groups of society, not only for disabled persons, in the agreements concluded with road users. I am very concerned that PRM will receive a good offer, and I refer to the fact that all trains in normal traffic on the Gjøvik Railway during this contractual period, at the request of the Department, will be equipped with a wheelchair lift. It's important for me to have a neat relationship with the NSB. In its hearing opinion, the NSB is in favour of the introduction of competition. The Ministry’s choice of NSB Anbud AS as the preferred party to the Gjøvikbanen contract has been based on objective criteria and shows that the NSB group has the ability through competition to achieve clear efficiency improvements and compete with other companies. I hope and believe that these experiences could have a positive impact on the rest of the NSB group. The NSB has a key role and could be required to make production factors available to others at fair prices and conditions. In this case, I believe it is right to provide full compensation to the NSB according to the principles of competition law on cost recovery, plus a reasonable profit. It also provides guidance on the resolution mechanisms in the event of disagreements consistent with the other transport sector. The size can give rules on compensation to the NSB without prejudice to the Constitution § 105. I'm familiar with the fact that the NSB doesn't share this view. In Norway, competition for the operation of rail passenger services will take place in such a way that public authorities will continue to be responsible for the execution of the services and that this will take place in accordance with strict safety and quality requirements for the provision of services. For all competition for the operation of rail passenger services, high-security requirements shall have priority. Everything suggests that the competitive outsourcing of the Gjøvik track will be a success. Travelers on Gjøvikbanen get a much better route offer, with increased capacity, more departures and better service and comfort. These improvements will help to increase the number of journeys by train. At the same time, the State will pay less for the operation of the train offer on Gjøvikbanen over time. Competition thus leads to more and better rail transport for less State resources. This must be a good starting point for the further competitive outlook. After the Gjøvik Railway, competition for the operation of passenger services on the rest of the network will be announced gradually. First, there will be competition for the Bergensbane package and the Southern Railway package.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e232	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e235	I have to ask the Council of State as a general meeting of NSB AS why it will give this state-owned limited liability company poorer conditions of competition than those with which it will compete. Firstly, NSB AS has an obligation to rent train sets without the corresponding obligation for its competitors to rent these trainsets. This may result in poor use of billions of investment by the State and the NSB. Secondly, NSB AS has an obligation to consult workshops without the corresponding obligation for competitors to use these workshops — even poor use of resources. And third, today, the Ministry of Transport will be able to try out the NSB's pricing of these services. Are these equal and non-discriminatory terms? The council said that the Gjøvik Railway is already a success. She pointed at 10 million. kr of the gain. Then I only have one question: how much extra has it cost for NSB AS and for the Ministry of Transport to do the job with the suspension of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e242	What we have now presented is precisely an incentive for us to have a level playing field. To say that the NSB will have worse conditions of competition, I think at all this does not belong here. We've already had a bidding round, which NSB has won. When we look at what conditions they have won, I think it is quite obvious that we have not taken the view that we should give them poorer conditions of competition. The NSB shall be fully compensated for the material they have to provide. As far as the Gjøvik Railway is concerned, I am making this reflection: is it so that the red-greens are afraid that people are going to start travelling more by train than they have before, and are more concerned that we are increasing public expenditure? The Gjøvik Railway provides a huge advantage for the travellers by increasing the transport offer. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e250	The President will remind you that speaking time is available to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e253	When the government gets a majority for this today, it's with a party that can't even stand up in the main hall and defend what they're doing. That party does not have the love of the railway in its priorities in this matter. It is the Progress Party, which otherwise wants to lay down most of the railway, which ensures the Government's majority in favour of this. I wonder if the Council of State doesn't think it's a paradox. I think it is time to get an answer to this question: haven't we had to build up a competition bureaucracy that has cost far more than what we might have had to save in the future on the Gjøvik Railway? Does it not worry the Council of State that we are developing such a bureaucracy? That means we're actually spending more money on red tape and less money on the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e260	When we have had a situation where the train offer on Gjøvikbanen seemed to be very bad, I have to say that it is a great pleasure to be able to present an offer – I did it a few days ago – that over a long period of time guarantees people along the Gjøvikbanen a product that is 30-40 pst. better than what was. We had the opportunity to lean back and think, "Yes, yes, it goes well." But we thought, we have to do something. We want more people to travel collectively. We have just discussed climate change. Are we willing to do something about it? Yes, this government is willing to do so. We are concerned that we should not only increase public spending, but that those who travel around here in the country should get a good transport offer – get something that is better than before, more attractive. We want them to travel collectively and less environmentally inconveniently, to say it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e267	I like it very bad when the Council of State mixes the cards and compares them to different ones. Of course, we are happy for a better offer on Gjøvikbanen. What is the question is whether it could have been done without postponing competition. I think so. We thought it would be strange if the NSB could not do that job – without it being put on offer. I thought the council took it very easy that we saw a 100 pst. State-owned companies in a situation where they have poorer conditions of competition than others. It's not going to be so good when it comes to the Dove Path, because NSB got this offer itself. Of course, they want to use their own materials and their own workshops, so we can't try it out in this context. But there is a danger in the longer term if the right-hand side is controlled in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e274	Let me make a confession: I'm a politician because I want to do something. I don't want to do anything about the environment at all. And when I sit in my chair and see that, for example. The offer of the Gjøvik track is getting worse and worse, so I choose to do something about it. I haven't heard a word about what you would like to do about the Gjøvik track, unless you want to go in with more money. We have managed to make an offer that is significantly better – for less money from the state. It costs a little bit more in bureaucracy, but I think the benefit for the travellers, for the environment and for the transport as such is much greater than the cost of the increased bureaucracy. Yes, there is increased bureaucracy, because we need to know more about what to order and how to implement it. We have good experience with the Gjøvik Railway, which may be the basis for increasing the collective share of other rail services as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e281	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 700]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e299	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e306	This Document No The 8th proposal by representatives of the Progress Party on an amendment to Law 21 June 2002 No. 45 in the case of professional carriage by motor vehicle and ship, the Professional Transport Act, relates to the authorisation to drive a bus after the age of 70, however, so that the driving licence is issued for one year at a time by the submission of a health certificate proving that health is sound. As the law is today, no driving licence can be issued to persons after the age of 70. The Committee has been divided into this matter. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, propose that the matter be annexed to the Minutes. We have a note that I will come back to a little later in my post. The Christian People's Party will reject the proposal, and the Progress Party is promoting the amendment here. I expect that the individual himself will justify his proposal. The majority will attach the matter to the protocol, because we believe that the matter needs to be considered more carefully in order to be able to decide on a sound basis whether there is a need for a change or a change. We believe that the issue of harmonisation with other European countries of the age provisions of the Professional Transport Act needs to be carefully considered before concluding. There are arguments that suggest that a change may make sense, for example: Because we're the only country in Europe that says no to the issue of driving tickets to people over 70 years of age. It is important that we also consider what has to do with values such as individualization and freedom of choice. The health and labour skills of individuals should be of great importance. I also see clearly the issue mentioned in the case, where a foreign driver who is over 70 years old can drive a bus in Norway, while a Norwegian driver over 70 years old is not allowed. The majority are also concerned with safety and safety, both for drivers and for passengers. Will this be taken care of equally in the event of any change? The proposers behind the amendment refer to the third paragraph of Section 37a, which refers to the age limit for issuing driving licences. If you read the first paragraph of the same paragraph, you see which occupational groups this applies to. It's not like it might look like Document No. The 8 proposal only applies to bus drivers. No, also with regard to the driver of the taxi, coach, coach and motor vehicle specially designed and/or equipped for the transport of disabled persons. For this reason, the matter is not as simple as the Advance Party wants it to. We need to have a thorough assessment of this matter before we make any changes. Where changes are to be made, all professional groups falling within Section 37(a) must be assessed. For these reasons, the majority would like to attach Document No. The 8th motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e327	I believe that the rapporteur has given a thorough account of this matter. As the rapporteur has also said, there is also agreement with the Labour Party. Initially, the Labour Party shares the Ministry’s view that the overall risk assessment of the combination of age and risk of acute illness is different when a bus is full of passengers than when a private car is driven. After all, 70 years of age are higher than the normal retirement age for bus drivers. However, we have concluded that it is important that the issue of harmonisation with other European countries of age provisions of the Professional Transport Act needs to be carefully assessed. That is why we are in favour of the proposal for a decision together with the SV, the Right and the Center parties. We have received a letter from Security Traffic, which says: ‘Safe Traffic considers that for road safety reasons it would not be appropriate to authorise drivers who have reached the age of 70 to continue to be allowed to drive buses for economical reasons. This will include buses which normally take up to 53 passengers. Bus is currently a means of transport with relatively low accident risks, and this is not least due to the different safety rules governing the current industry. Those provisions are strict and should remain so. There is also reason to stress that a health certificate itself is not sufficient evidence that a person over 70 years of age is suitable as a bus driver. A health certificate is no guarantee that he is still able to carry, for example: bus. There is a need for a practical driving test.As far as Safe Traffic is known, there are currently relatively few bus drivers in many companies running up to 70 years of age or at a lower fixed retirement age. This is also confirmed by, among other things, the National Association of Transport Companies.” Regardless of this, we believe that it is not dangerous to get a thorough assessment. We also believe that it will be in place. At the same time, however, we believe that what Safety Traffic has said on this matter should also be listened to. This is not a simple matter at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e347	I would have liked Odelstinget to see a simple amendment of the law here today that had cleared up this horrific discrimination and immediately removed the strange provisions that entail a categorical professional ban on Norwegian bus drivers who are 70 years old. Let's start by saying that old age itself doesn't necessarily mean you're becoming some worse professional than before. This fact is even mentioned in the department's letter of reply in this case. This is in several ways a very strange case, which, as I see it, is in the category ‘heia Norway’. Such age bans exist, as far as I know, neither in Denmark, Sweden or other EU countries. This means that bus drivers over 70 years of age who are from Denmark, Sweden or other EU countries can drive a tourist bus as much as they want across Europe and, in fact, Norway. But if a Norwegian bus driver over 70 years of age drives a bus in Norway for payment, he is therefore a lawbreaker. Where's the logic? At the same time, Norwegian bus drivers, who are not allowed to drive buses in Norway because they are over 70 years old, can legally drive buses in the rest of Europe, from the Norwegian border and down. This doesn't hang on to anything, to say it like this. Is it really the case that Nordics over 70 years old are so much more fragile and in so much worse health than Danish, Swedish, German or French people over 70 years old that we in Norway have to impose a ban on Nordics over 70 years old in certain professions? Of course it's not like that. But the Council of State and the Department obviously have to live in the error that the Nordics over 70 have a much worse health status than the Danish and Swedish over 70 years. I would like to mention that in the position on the Working Environment Act, which was passed on to the Municipal Committee yesterday, to be dealt with in Odelstinget on 6 June, Section 13-1, first paragraph – which will be unanimously adopted – states that discrimination on grounds of age is prohibited. And if the thing we're talking about here is discrimination because of age, I don't know. What do you do in line with these beautiful words about the seniors, with bus drivers who want to continue their professional career even after the age of 70? Indeed, they are banned because of age, they are discriminated against in relation to existing legislation in the EU countries, and there is arbitrary age discrimination. It is now high time we cleaned up these strange and age discriminatory provisions and harmonised legislation in this area in Norway with that in force in EU countries. Refusing to issue driver’s driver’s ticket over 70 years represents a shameful senior policy. The driving ticket is also something that, in any case, I am experiencing, is a strange phenomenon. I have both a bus and a truck certificate myself, and I have had a driver's ticket for the bus, but I have to say that I never understood the point of having this ticket. In the EU countries, medical certificates and health certificates determine how long a bus can be driven and not even a driver’s ticket. This should also be the case here in Norway. Let me refer to a letter we have received from bus driver Håkon Råheim from Förde, dated 10 May, where he writes: ‘Even more ridiculous and annoying is it when I have colleagues in both Sweden and Denmark running a full bus after 70 years of age.’ So Råheim calls the strange rules ridiculous and requires politicians to clean up. The party of progress fully supports him in this view. In Stavanger, Gabriel Haga is 70 years old and is concerned that he recently had to park his bus on his 70th birthday after 50 years as a bus driver. However, he can still drive a bus as much as he likes on the other side of the Swedish border. Last, but not least: in Fromand, my own municipality of residence, there is a bus owner named Leif Oland who recently turned 70, who, for the occasion, sits on the landfill gallery and follows the debate, and who is now fighting hard to keep driving his own buses in the family bus company. But he will no longer be allowed to do that, even though a medical certificate shows that he is as healthy and crack as a 40-year-old. I believe that it is completely pointless and arbitrary to deprive these persons of the right to pursue their profession from the day they happen to pass 70 years. As long as they are declared by doctors to be both healthy and fast – in the head and in the arms and legs and otherwise – they should be allowed to practise their profession. I hope the Council of State will soon realize how pointless and discriminatory this strange provision is and will clear up according to the proposal that the Progress Party has made in the document we are discussing. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e389	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e392	For the Christian People's Party, security is most important. That is why we believe that this proposal should be rejected. For the Christian People's Party, neither competition nor justice arguments count more strongly than the security argument. We cannot take the chance that a desire to include as much as possible in the labour market or a desire for a level playing field for Norwegian and foreign workers will allow us to experiment with security. An upper age limit for driving licences has existed for one year. Old age in itself does not mean that you become a driver worse than you have been before. However, with old age, the risk of serious acute disease cases which are difficult or unforeseeable through normal medical examinations increases. This also applies to persons with normal health and e.g.: complies with the requirements for driving licences. The difference between the provisions on driving licences and the provisions on driving licences at this point we think it is wise to have. The risk should be assessed in a completely different way for a driver in professional transport who is responsible for a bus full of passengers than for one who is to drive a private car or a truck without passengers. The legislative proposal argues for an amendment to the provisions to allow bus companies to install retired bus drivers if necessary. This means that a pensioner shall be given responsibility for many passengers on a bus without having the opportunity to maintain his/her skills regularly. The Christian People's Party is sceptical about this, considering road safety. Driving passes are not required for foreign bus drivers. Theoretically, for example, a Danish bus driver over 70 years of age could drive a Danish registered tourist bus in Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that this is not a good enough argument to change the current provisions of our professional transport law. Firstly, the argument is simply not strong enough in relation to safety. Secondly, we believe that this does not have a practical impact on the competitiveness of Norwegian transport companies in relation to the rest of the world. On the basis of these assessments, the Christian People's Party has chosen to support the Ministry's assessment in the case. The main objective of the Christian People's Party with transport policy is to develop a road-safe transport system. We believe that the extension of the authorisation to drive a bus does not increase road safety. However, there is a possibility that such an extension may impair safety. That is why the Christian People’s Party proposes that the proposal, which is today on the table, be rejected. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e409	The representative has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e412	The problem raised in Document No. 8:62, 2004-2005, is a multipage case. Requirements must be imposed on those engaged in economic activities in the transport of passengers. Then it can be easy to have a concrete age limit to stick to. But it is understandable that many people react to the fact that passing a certain age should make a person unfit to be e.g. bus driver. Everyone knows that passing 70 years does not automatically make a person worse as a driver. This may be considered unreasonably because the same drivers, when they have a driver card for all categories of vehicles, can legally continue to run large trailers. Running large trailers can be more demanding than running a bus, or taxi, for that part. The same drivers can also legally drive buses if passengers do not pay. There is also reason to compare schemes in other countries. Since the running seat requirement is a strange rule, situations that seem quite understandable arise when comparing Norwegian and foreign drivers, or when looking at the rights of a driver to drive in Norway or abroad. Since there is no running seat required in e.g. The EU, but on the other hand, a Norwegian driver over 70 years of age may be driving on a Norwegian bus travelling abroad. Foreign drivers over 70 years of age may also be drivers on foreign buses in Norway. There may be many individual cases that may appear unethical according to the Norwegian rules, especially when they are strictly enforced, as we in the Committee have been informed that they are. In view of the view of the Centre Party, there is reason both to look at the decisions and to consider possible harmonisation with other European countries. The centre party is therefore included in the plural commentary, which states that harmonisation must be assessed, and we support the inclusion of the document in the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e425	The Professional Transport Act requires that a driving licence be issued by the person responsible for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward by taxi, coach, coach or motor vehicle specially designed for the transport of disabled persons. A driving licence shall be issued by the police, who shall assess whether he/she is of good repute to be a driver of motor vehicles as referred to. In order to obtain a driving licence, a medical certificate must be submitted. Health requirements are somewhat stricter than those for standard driving licences. The driving licence shall be valid for 10 years and the driver’s license must be 20 years of age. After reaching the age of 60, the driving licence is issued for five years at a time, but not more than until the holder reaches the age of 70. As far as I'm aware, only Norway and the United Kingdom operate with a driving licence. In the United Kingdom, the so-called ‘driving entitlement’ has to be renewed every year after the age of 65, so operating in Norway at a fixed limit of 70 years. The background to the upper age requirement for driving licences is general road safety considerations. That is to say, a balance has been made between the combination of old age and the risk that unforeseen fatal disease conditions may occur abruptly during the exercise of professional passenger transport services. In public passenger transport, where the public must have confidence that safety is ensured, the balance is different from in the case of driving licences for private use. The issue was last assessed by the Health Directorate and the Ministry of Transport in 1972, without any changes in the age limit for bus tickets. On the other hand, the limit for taxi was lowered from 75 to 70 years. No questions have been raised over the years about the need for changes to the scheme, either from industry or from organisations representing drivers. The special feature of the Norwegian driving licence system is the 70-year limit, not the setting of specific health and standard requirements for the driver in the professional transport of persons. The majority of the Committee considers that harmonisation with other European countries of the age provisions of the Professional Transport Act needs to be carefully assessed. I will follow up on this, of course. As far as I am aware, no harmonised EU legislation has yet been developed for professional drivers over a certain age. However, I would like to take the initiative to compare the competence requirements and health requirements set for bus drivers in the EEA region. In the long term, it may be appropriate to remove the driving licence and the limitation of age if the general road safety considerations can be met by other means, such as: by stepping up medical checks on professional drivers. This will, for example: may also involve shorter intervals between each time a health certificate has to be provided and a lowering of the limit, such as: annual intervals after age 65, as in the United Kingdom. However, I will not change the rules in the driving order until these conditions are clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e445	It was the representative of the Progress Party who made me take the floor. When we heard him at the pulpit now, one would think that this matter was settled. I also perceive that he spoke to the gallery. Then the undersigned will also do so and on behalf of the Workers' Party and the majority will say that this matter is not settled. But there also has to be an understanding that we want to have a more thorough assessment. It's not like we're getting younger with the years. I also think it is important to see this in relation to the EEA countries. Traffic safety also seems to me to be incredibly important, so this matter should not be raised. That's why the majority has now said that they want a review of this. ‘It is considered that the issue of harmonisation with other European countries of the age provisions of the Professional Transport Act needs to be considered more carefully’, the report states. That is why I think we should be allowed to do so. I also think that both the Council of State and the President-in-Office have explained well what they want to do. If we look at the Christian People's Party, they have also rejected this case. It was not so far away that the Workers' Party also saw the possibility of possibly rejecting it, but we wanted to go for a round to get a thorough assessment of this matter together with the majority. That is why it was important to clarify it, and it is not dangerous to get an assessment either – so this case is not settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e454	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 701]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e467	The odelsting shall now vote in the cases No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e571	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will oppose the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e584	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to oppose it here as well. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e598	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e605	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 2, from Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party The President will first vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law 21 June 2002 No 45 on professional transport by motor vehicle and vessel II Act 21 June 2002 No 45 on professional transport by motor vehicle and ship is amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 37a is replaced by the following: [[professional transport law]] [[professional transport law]] For a person aged 60, the driving seat is issued for a period of five years at a time of 70 years. From 70 years of age, the driving seat is issued for 1 year at a time by submitting a health certificate which demonstrates that it is fully justified. If specific health conditions so require, the period of validity of the driving seat shall be reduced. IlLaw shall enter into force immediately. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e647	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:62 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01-lower.ana.ud151e669	There is no record.
