ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e57	The representatives of Olav Akselsen, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim and Synnøve Konglevoll, who have been on leave, have again taken up their seats. The delegation to the 112th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union of Manila, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Karin Andersen, is subject to a permit application. The application concerns a period of leave from 4 April to 6 April for the representatives of Karin Andersen, Trine Skei Grande, Ola T. Lånke, Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Hedmark County: Helge BjørnsenFor Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor Oslo: Ola ElvestuenFor Rogaland County: Inger Lise AarrestadFor South Trondelag County: Tora Husan3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e116	Helge Bjørnsen, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Ola Elvestuen, Inger Lise Aarrestad and Tora Husan are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e122	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e132	So to the invited evening meeting today. Since two of the interpellations have fallen away, there is every reason to believe that we will be finished at this morning's meeting. If it were to snap a little bit in time, the president would be willing to continue a little bit beyond the clock. 15th This is for Storting's information.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e146	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e157	A cheap substitute is a deep regret from the public to those who have been wronged. Credit compensation is provided on the basis of a reasonable assessment without a legal basis for liability. It is essential that the amount of compensation be measured on the basis of the abuse that has taken place. However, the compensation does not aim at covering the applicant’s total financial loss. Firstly, the reason for this is that the level of Norwegian claims payments is generally moderate. Secondly, it is because we have a well-developed welfare state. Those who fall outside and get it difficult are caught up in the security networks of popular and social law. An overall justice system also wants the lavishness system to continue to be practised in line with the leadership I have just mentioned. In addition, the Committee considers that if reasonable compensation is to be awarded to persons or groups in the future, this should be done through an adaptation of the current cheap compensation scheme. The consideration of those who, for various reasons, wish to apply for financial compensation for the injustices to which they have been subjected suggests that it should be easy to find the appropriate body. It is inappropriate to establish several specific compensation schemes. There is reason to stress that the cheap substitute scheme is and will remain the Storting scheme. It is very important that both the Administration and the Billing Replacement Committee transmit cases of a specific political and principal nature to the Parliament for treatment. As a result, the Storting will be able to lead in individual and specific matters and will lead to the development of the scheme in general. Several war children were subjected to aggressive and malicious behavior in the postwar years. They grew up in environments that were permeated by hatred and contempt, and were subjected to special suffering, loss and unreasonableness as a result of being war children. The outreach and harassment that many war children experienced was an expression of the attitudes and actions of adults. It is precisely this that makes the actions particularly serious. However, it was not only degrading behaviour by others in the local community that degraded the living conditions of war children. Research shows that a number of State interventions, such as: barriers to the collection of children’s contributions from father in Germany, hit the war children hard. In the New Year's Eve on 1 January 2000, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik complained about the treatment many war children have suffered in the post-war period. It is, in the view of the Judicial Committee, very regrettable and sought that innocent children in this way had their upbringing deteriorated solely as a result of their ethnic origin. Today, the Storting decides that children of war who were raised with special suffering, loss and unfairness will be compensated. The Judicial Committee is in favour of making very modest demands for evidence in such cases. I would point out that the Committee is in favour of less stringent conditions than those resulting from the Government's proposal. If the child of the war cannot provide other than a self-declaration as a basis for the application, compensation of NOK 20 000 may be granted. However, the amount of compensation may be significantly higher if other evidence is attached confirming either the infringement or its consequences. Through this, the Storting takes a settlement with those who made the growth of the war children difficult. On behalf of society, we apologize to the war children. Several Roman people have previously been denied their applications for cheap compensation because they didn't have the harder part than the more tattooed. Now these applications are to be re-examined. For example, children who grew up in the detention camp Svanviken. Compared to other children in the camp and not to ethnic Norwegian children who grew up in freedom. The Judicial Committee considers that if Roma people are not compared with the majority of the population when applying for cheap compensation, this means that they are indiscriminately discriminated against, contrary to general legal principles. It also provides for discrimination against groups on an ethnic basis, without resulting in consequences for those responsible for the abuses. The size now requires the archives of the departments to be reviewed in order to find previously rejected credulity claims from Roma. Any person who has previously received a refusal to apply shall be informed that the conditions have changed and shall be informed of the possibility to apply again. The abuse of the tattoos by the authorities is one of the greatest in recent Norwegian history. Several Roman people were interned, persecuted, deprived of their children, lobotomized and forced sterilized. That's why a lot of tattoos have been paid off. For me, as a representative of the Christian People's Party, it is particularly serious and frightening that the Church and the Christians were involved in much of the injustice committed against the Romani people. With the state that sponsors, the mission contributed to the impoverishment of the Roman people. In recent years, the Norwegian Church has settled this, but it is nevertheless important for me in this context to say that I am particularly sorry for the role of the Church in the abuses. Today, the Stortinget decides to introduce a specially adapted compensation scheme for those who were forced to sterilise in violation of the 1934 sterilisation Act. The compensation is going to be 150000 kroner. The requirements for proof are small and any written consent to sterilisation does not necessarily prevent replacement. What may in some cases appear to be consent is actually often not. Many were not aware of what they signed. The Judicial Committee repeats and underscores the setting of St.meld. No 44 the excuse given to the Romanesque people in February 1998 by Minister Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad, on behalf of the Bondevik I government. The persecution and abuse of the Romani people should never have happened. More men and women lost school during and immediately after World War II. In addition, many did not receive training in their own native language as a result of research policy and have not learned to read or write in their own native language. The combination of inadequate schooling and research policy also led to the fact that more people cannot read and write in Norwegian. The feeling of not stretching to and from not being an equivalent citizen in Norway was expressed in many Sami and female schoolchildren. This feeling has followed more throughout life and has contributed to a deterioration in the quality of life. This is deeply regrettable. Educationally injured co-workers and women are the last group to have an adapted cheap substitute scheme today. The Judicial Committee would like these to be reimbursed cheaply in line with the usual practice of applications for inadequate schooling. Normally, the amount of compensation in such cases is approximately NOK 60000. So finally a little bit about the way forward. It is important to take a settlement with past injustice. The credit compensation scheme is probably suitable for that purpose. Today, a total outburst says that the assaults on war children, romanists, sams and women were unacceptable and should never have happened. We apologize. We also adopt compensation schemes for these groups as compensation to the individual for the wrongs committed. I have received a lot of enquiries from people who are covered by the compensation schemes we are adopting today. Many express joy at the upliftment they now receive. But some war children express dissatisfaction and express dissatisfaction that the amount of compensation is so low that it is perceived almost as a new offense. To that I would limit myself to saying that no amount of money in the world can compensate for abuse. But a cheap substitute has to be understood as an excuse for the individual and as a compensation for injustice. I hope and believe that most people will experience it this way as the case settles down. I also refer to the position and comments of the committee there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e210	The size will today adopt mechanisms that will improve the cheapness compensation scheme for three groups. The improved arrangements will enable more war children, romanists/taters and elderly educationalally injured cohabitants and women to seek compensation for abuse committed against them. These are people who have suffered an overload, or have simply been subjected to an assault for which the Norwegian State has to take responsibility. Many have responded to the low payments made in our cheap substitute scheme. To say that Norway has a tradition of low compensation payments based on the fact that we have chosen to have a good social security network that captures those outside. Payments of cash from the government outside the social security system and without legal liability are therefore considered to be exceptional. When we deal with this matter, we shall remember that the wrong committed by the state against different groups of society cannot be settled with money. The compensation we give must be seen as the way in which the state of Norway apologizes for the abuses that the Norwegian authorities have been responsible for because of unacceptable policies and practices in the past. Many of the children who were born with Norwegian mother and German father have suffered special suffering as a result of who their parents were. Many have been exposed to malicious and aggressive behaviour in their community, and not just from other children, but – the more serious – from adults and authorities. Research shows that a wide range of state interventions hit war children hard. This takes Stortinget very seriously, and the committee believes that the treatment of innocent children who helped to reduce their growth is part of our history that we should have liked to have been ahead of us. The Prime Minister has previously complained about the treatment of war children, and so does the Stortinge today through the document we are now dealing with. An overall committee supports the Government’s proposal that compensation for war children should be made through an adaptation of the cheap compensation scheme and that applications should be assessed individually. Compensation shall be granted to those who suffered special suffering, loss and unfairness as a result of being a war child. This means that it must have a certain degree of seriousness and the intrusion to which a child of war was subjected. How this has followed them later in life will be a relevant element, but not a condition for substitution. In the case of bullying, the government has proposed that compensation be paid to war children who say that they have been bullied, based on their own declaration. The amount of compensation is proposed is NOK 20 000. The working party believes this amount is too low. In previous cases under the Grand Stortinge’s cheap compensation scheme, the amount has been between 40 000 and 60 000 for the lowest known. The Workers' Party believes it would have been desirable to raise the compensation to NOK 40000 on the basis of the recognition that it is the State and not the war children's seams who are responsible for the loss of documentation. But for the Workers' Party, it is important that there should be an overall committee behind a decision like this. We believe that the case is not suitable for party political markings and will therefore support the majority's proposal for a compensation scheme. As a traveler, the Roman people have been subjected to state research policy. Many have previously been granted low-cost allowances for lost schooling. A fund has also been set up to promote the preservation and development of the culture, language and history of the Roma population. The Labour Party has been committed to changing the practice of the cheap compensation scheme in order to compare Roma applicants with the majority of the population and is pleased that there is a majority in favour of this today. The highest claims are awarded in connection with the forced sterilisation of tattoos that occurred between 1930 and 1970. This has hit 350 women. The size has stressed the importance of meeting the demand for compensation. For the possibility of applying for compensation on a non-compulsory basis, it is also important for the Workers’ Party to stress that it is difficult for many Roma people to promote the application for compensation without legal assistance, as they lack schooling and have difficulties in relocating in administration. That is why we are concerned that it should be easy to get free legal aid. Therefore, the practice of the Law on Legal Aid must be liberal, so that more people can have their rights respected. The occupation of Norway and the retreat after the war hit Finnmark and Nord-Troms harder than the other parts of the country. During the war, the local population had to suffer from the use of the occupying power of school buildings and thereafter by burning earth’s tactics, so that education ceased for many years. In particular, this, in combination with the research policy, hit many Sami and female children who could not Norwegian. Since the post-war education took place in Norwegian, this has meant that many Sami and female have lived as illiterate throughout their lives. The research policy was an assault on the Sami population and particularly affected children of school age. The consequences of this have followed many throughout their lives. Let me conclude by stressing once again that the lavish substitute system of the Storting can only be an uproar and a complaint from society to those groups that have been attacked by the state. Limited compensation with the payment of a sum of claims can never settle the various abuses that have affected many. We are pleased that we finally have a decision in this matter, so that many of those who have waited a long time for this decision can get on with their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e236	War creates suffering and sensitivities of different kinds. Many have been affected by the aftermath of the war throughout their lives. Both those who fought for the homeland, those who lost one of their loved ones, and those who belonged to the ‘wrong side’ of the war years, have been heavily affected by the war. The pain has been associated with life. However, there is little doubt that many of the war children have found it extremely difficult through childhood, at school and also in adulthood. Society must take responsibility for the systematic bullying many of the war children were exposed to. Hatred and contempt from adults and banishment among other children have hit the war children hard. A very large number of people are struggling with the aftermath of this, and therefore a separate cheap substitute system is now in place for war children. Before and now – in the past and through the work of the Committee on this matter – many of us have been contacted by people who have suffered injuries as a result of being war children. The stories are strong and have also made an impression. The Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to extend the cheap-compensation scheme to include the war children who have suffered particular injuries. Credit compensation is granted to those who have been subjected to particularly adverse conditions on the part of the State. A cheap substitute can never fully compensate for the suffering suffered by an applicant, but the replacement represents an upliftment and a complaint on the part of society. Pain is not cured by money, and all pain cannot be eased by money. Apologize for wrong relief, but don't take away the pain. But that society must, is to learn from the experiences of war children and make sure that history does not repeat itself in encounter with other groups. Therefore, knowledge and understanding in society are also important for what war children have to undergo. War children also need clarification and knowledge about what is their own past. Bullying is usually not a reason to apply for cheap pay. Most of the war children who suffered childhood injuries were exposed to bullying from children and adults in the community, at school or in contact with public institutions. We believe that in the case of war children there are special circumstances in which such bullying should be able to provide a basis for compensation. State intervention, such as: preventing the collection of child contributions from Germany has also hit war children particularly hard. The Committee has joined the Government’s proposal on the same ceiling as under today’s cheap substitute scheme, i.e. NOK 200,000. The specific compensation measure must take account of what has been paid out to other groups under the LFS, as well as of previous specific claims settlements. Typical assaults on war children will be difficult to document. In our view, a graduated compensation scheme will therefore be appropriate. Where there is expert evidence to confirm the application and the adverse effects of the infringement have been suffered for the individual, it may be paid in return for full cheapening. Where there is no such evidence, a cheap allowance may be paid up to NOK 20 000 based on a self-declaration by the applicant. St. Report. No 44 for 2003-2004 also deals with another black chapter in Norwegian history. Many romanists and tattooers were subjected to gross abuse by the authorities. They were put in detention camps, lobotomized, taken from their children and forced sterilized. Several tattoos have been rejected over the years for their applications for just cheap substitutes, because they didn't have the harder part than the more tattooed. In our view, the fact that they have not compared their situation with that of the rest of the Norwegian population is very unreasonable. We are pleased that this injustice is now to be compensated. The Committee also asks for the Ministry’s archives to be reviewed on previously rejected applications from Roma/taters and for information to be sent to them on changes in the conditions. Many tattoos have been subjected to multiple assaults — some have been internized, forced sterilised, forced to adopt, and bullied. In these cases, the sum of the claims could be up to NOK 200000 for each basis. With this, the Committee hopes to put a line across this dark chapter of Norwegian history. Many Sami and female children did not learn to read and write during and after the war and have lived as illiterate throughout their lives, this because many schools in Finnmark and Nord-Troms were occupied by the Germans, and the schools were burned when the Germans withdrew. Samer and women are a group that has come out particularly unfortunate precisely as a result of lost schooling in connection with the war and research policy. These are now also compensated by the cheap substitute system, and we are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e262	For the Advancement Party, it is important to point out that injustice does not go away simply because if one closes his eyes to what is happening or has happened. Hurts that have been committed against many and a long time ago may be difficult to correct again completely. This is the background for us wanting the most aggregate attitude from Stortinget. It would be unfortunate if one did not see that there was a total increase in size that in this case wanted to indicate that previous actions had been improper. The Progress Party will point out that even if we have a case in which you talk about the groups – war children, romanists/taters, samers and women – it is the individual people who have been exposed to the situations. Even if it is pedigree and so on. which may be the cause of the problems, it is always the individuals who have had to bear the injustice and suffering. The fact that there are several who are exposed to the same thing does not necessarily make it much better for the individual human being who has been exposed to the injustices. Therefore, it has been important for the Progress Party that a compensation scheme should be based on the individual and the burden to which he has been exposed. Cohesion and identity are important, but no group is more than a collection of individuals who have something in common. The compensation shall be calculated on the basis of the wrong for which it has been the victim. In most cases this will be about concrete actions, but obvious omissions could also fall under the definition. In particular, we believe that this is where representatives of the public have not intervened against injustice that would otherwise have intervened if it had affected the normal population. This applies, for example: where the school has chosen to ignore large-scale bullying because the child did not belong to the normal population. Perhaps even more serious is the fact that assault has not been taken seriously or even defended on this basis. A cheap substitute will never be able to rectify the wrong or the suffering and loss caused. This must be seen primarily as a complaint from society, carried out by the Stortinget as Norway’s only directly nationally elected body. In relation to the respective groups, I want to relate to the systematics used in the setting. In the case of war children, the similarity is that they have had a father who has belonged to the occupying army. No matter how one assesses individual relationships between people in an occupation situation, no one can truthfully claim that children should bear responsibility and be punished for their parents’ actions. Children shall not experience such a thing. Inheritance sin is hardly a valid argument in this context. The only similarity between war children is that your father has been in a large occupying force. As a result, there has been a wide variation in the situation in which the children have lived. Some have had an almost normal growth, while others have had it very difficult. In that context, it would have been unreasonable if a claimant could not take this into account. The regret goes to all who have had it difficult as a war child, but the amount of compensation must bear in mind that someone has had it tougher and has had a more difficult growth due to their origin than others. The party to the proceedings would also point out that, in the case of compensation, an overall committee is to consider the particular suffering, loss and unfairness suffered and not whether the consequence of the wrong has caused particular suffering, loss and unfairness. We want to settle the damage, not just make sure that this has caused problems in retrospect. The injustice shall be replaced reasonably, even where the victim has been able to live an almost normal life after it. There may be a need to give something extra where a person has had serious problems in retrospect, but an injustice is not corrected by the fact that a person, despite the injustice, has subsequently managed to gain a more or less normal life. In the case of the sum of claims, one might argue that Norway is a country with low claims. In particular, Norway is known for its low level of compensation, which is not direct financial loss. Although one may have views on this, we have chosen to relate to that reality. A general increase in the weighting of non-economic losses should be taken into account in an overall assessment where criminal law also plays a major role. All lots agree that one should join the affordability framework. This means that we all agree on the maximum payment sum. As far as disagreements are concerned, namely regarding the sum for which the self-declaration alone is enough, we have taken note of the proposal put forward by the Government. This disagreement may also be due to the fact that some are more uncertain as to whether evidence requirements in addition to self-declaration are possible to an appreciable extent in view of the time aspect. The point of progress is of the opinion that one should be able to provide a certain degree of evidence for requirements exceeding NOK 20000. It is important that the sample takes into account the difficulty of clear evidence when considering the documentation requirement. It is clear that testimonies, statements or other supporting evidence could satisfy the requirement for evidence. The problem with evidence of serious injustice will be the same regardless of whether a limit for documentation is NOK 20000, NOK 40000 or NOK 60000. It's in any case up to a maximum of NOK 200000. As regards the compensation scheme for the Roma/taters, with particular emphasis on forced sterilisation, the Committee is also united in view of the complaint and compensation. All the time of forced sterilisation is only one of several assaults that was made, a cheap substitute in which all conditions can be seen together would be a better solution than if one were only to deal with forced sterilisation by itself. This is also the basis for the Committee's view that several relationships may together exceed the sum limit of DKK 200 000. Nevertheless, it is an advantage to see things in their context, and therefore it will be an advantage if one gets the opportunity to deal with a person's affairs collectively. As far as the law on legal aid is concerned, one can see that its practice appears to be somewhat restrictive in view of persons in need of legal assistance. Nevertheless, in this context, we will highlight the information and guidance obligations of the public vis-à-vis the individual applicant. The increase in administrative resources to be provided will also be used for guidance for those in need. If, against assumption, this is not enough, we will of course be able to get back to this. I assume that if the Justice Secretariats who receive the application ask for a specific case to fall under Section 13 of the Law on Legal Aid, much is needed in order for the county council to reach a different conclusion. It is important to note that this work should be in addition to the matters that are normally being worked on, and therefore it would be unfortunate if matters that would otherwise have been funded under Section 13 could not have the means to do so during this period. In the case of older educationalally injured cohabitants and women, one sees that several unfortunate conditions together have given rise to very unfortunate situations for people. The war itself is not a substitute for Norway, but, together with research policy, some have found it particularly difficult. So that's the total load that one considers has given this wrong. Mastering a language well, including writing, is essential for working well in our society today. In these cases, there may also be a need for assistance from the Justice Secretariats in the provision of guidance and documentation, because of the fact that lack of education naturally affects the possibility of providing a complete and good presentation. Finally, I would like to point out that many of the applicants will only be able to use their own declaration as documentation. This has to do with the time aspect and the fact that injustice is less often written down and documented by those responsible. With this, we want to take seriously the individual people who have been subjected to injustice and to clarify that their statements are believed – yes, to the extent that their stories can provide cheap compensation without doubt about the content. Then we are hoped that our regret will be received positively by the persons who have been subjected to injustice by the society we all have a responsibility to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e299	SV is pleased that the situation of the war children in recent years has received a much stronger focus, and that the authorities have taken more steps to tell the war children that the abuses they were subjected to were not something they had to expect. This was on the contrary something they should have gotten away with. It is often said that one can say how civilized a society is, according to how one treats one's weakest. The fact that Norway has now taken a larger settlement with its own past in the case of war children gives Norway a higher place in the divisions. I also want to praise Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who has taken important initiatives in this matter. In Norway, children have a strong position, and Norway has incorporated the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We still have a long history of child abuse, and unfortunately the Norwegian authorities have not done what they should to protect children in many ways. On the SV side, it is important to stress that we have to learn from history. When we decide to compensate people who should have been protected by the authorities, but who were not protected, we should at the same time ensure that other children do not grow up without the protection they should have. We mean, among other things: that there is not enough provision for children of ethnic minorities in need of child protection, that child protection does not have the resources they need to help children suffering, that private actors have too much room for manoeuvre in the area of child protection, that supervision is inadequate, and that asylum seekers and children of Rome should have better protection. On the SV side, we think there may be many new things ahead where people have suffered unnecessarily because the state did not ensure that they had fulfilled their rights. The first register-based survey on the living conditions of war children showed that the mortality rate among war children is high: in the period from 1960 until the end of 2002, the entire range of war children has an excess mortality rate of 40pst. compared to their peers. In fact, there was an excess mortality of 66 pst. for the best-documented annual coals. War children have the highest proportion of heart disease, cancer and suicide, as evidenced by a difficult life with heavy stress and wear. There is a link between living conditions and quality of life. The study shows that large groups of war children have and have had major health problems, which in turn indicate a decrease in the quality of life. At the same time, it is gratifying that a significant number of war children have had normal living conditions. SV agrees that compensation for war children should be made through an adaptation of the cheap compensation scheme and that applications from war children should be assessed individually. SV is very satisfied with and will pay tribute to the case-rapporteur, Marthinsen, for it was not that the war children who were attacked as a result of being a war child should not necessarily be compensated if it turns out that he has mastered the assaults and had a good life. From the SV side, this was absolutely necessary to get away. A prostitute woman told me that she was subjected to gross assault as a war child, and that she has been a prostitute since she was very young. She nevertheless believes that she has had a good life, but there is no doubt in her soul that she deserves compensation for what she has been through. We fully agree with that on the SV side. We're not going to put on a victim identity because we're giving them up. SV had wanted the minimum amount of compensation to be set far higher than the 20 000 kroner for the other lots, all except SV and the centre party, finally to settle. In previous cases dealt with under the Grand Storting’s cheap compensation scheme, the amount was between NOK 40000 and NOK 60000 for the lowest known claims. SV and the Central Party propose that the minimum amount be set at NOK 60000. I would like to remind you that an overall committee states that it is important that the implementation of this compensation scheme and the level of compensation being assessed do not feel as if they were a new wrong for those groups that are now to be given a retribution for past injustice. The Committee is unanimous in its view that the State must have an additional responsibility when it can both be blamed for too much of the injustice that has occurred and at the same time has been responsible for the mutilation of the evidence of the infringement. The conclusion of such an opinion should, in the opinion of the SV, be at a minimum level higher than that of the majority of the Committee. Finally, I'd like to say a little bit about the Roma people and educationalally injured men and women. The abuses previously committed against the Romani people are very serious. It's great, and it's time for romanists seeking replacement to be compared for the future with the majority population. If the roman population is not compared with the majority population, it can allow discrimination against groups on the basis of membership without resulting in consequences for the person behind the discrimination or abuses. Romanics who have previously applied for cheap payments and received a refusal should now apply again. A unanimous committee requests that the archives of the departments be reviewed on previously rejected credulity claims from Roma/taters and that information be sent to them on changes in the conditions of cheap substitutes. This is terribly important. The SV and the Workers' Party are concerned that for many of the Roma people it is very difficult or impossible to promote an application for cheap payments without legal assistance. Many have very poor schooling. It is difficult for them to be involved in administration, and some of them naturally have a strong voice of scepticism for the Norwegian authorities. The application of the third paragraph of Section 13 of the Law on Legal Aid must therefore be liberal, so that the general rule is that those who need legal assistance to promote their application are given free legal assistance. The rest of the committee should have agreed to this. The research policy, which lasted well after World War II, was an attack on the Sami population. Many women also suffered greatly. More men and women lost school during and immediately after World War II. In addition, many did not receive training in their own native language as a result of research policy, and have not learned to read and write in their own native language. The combination of inadequate schooling and research policy also led to the fact that more people cannot read and write in Norwegian. We agree with the SV that the cheap substitutes system must be adapted to include compensation for those who have come out particularly unfortunate both as a result of lost schooling during and immediately after the war and as a result of research policy. I take up the proposal SV has promoted in the hall, about a lower limit of 60 000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e320	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e325	Both the representative Gjul, of the Workers' Party, and the representative Thorkildsen, of the Socialist Left Party, have now pointed to a matter that needs to be given some attention. This relates to the assistance that some may need in order to promote an application of such a nature that it provides the necessary and appropriate information about them to the Committee on the Exchange of Letters. They want Section 13 of the Legal Aid Act to be amended. We stress from the majority of parties that the Justice Secretariats receiving the applications will request additional information and provide the applicant with the necessary guidance. Each trade union has a further obligation to provide information on the matter before it is brought before the Committee on the Exchange of Letters. In other words, we believe that this is how SV is dealt with here. Doesn't the representative Thorkildsen agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e332	We hope it is as Mr Marthinsen says here, that it will work that way in practice, and that there will not be a need for more liberal practice of the Law on Legal Aid – but we believe that both could have been said. That's why we have this comment in the setting for sure. In these matters, it must not be that people feel that they are not getting the assistance they need, and therefore we thought that this had to come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e338	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e341	The Central Party has not been represented in the Judicial Committee. So let me first point out that the Centre Party joins in the wise words of apology and upliftment that both the spokesperson and other spokesmen have made. St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004 includes compensation for very different groups. But there are some similarities. These are individuals who have had a very difficult start in life, who have suffered from an overload – many for several years – and who ask for unusually degrading experiences, events such as Norwegian government powers either approved or even were active with and provide the basis for. Let me briefly comment on the three groups that this message includes. In the case of the war children, the Central Party had hoped that the Committee would arrive at a more expeditious treatment than the Government initially provided the basis. There are three things that I thought it was important to go under there. As late as 1998 there was a lack of knowledge and transparency in public bodies, so there was little help to get for those who were looking for documentation of their own identity and their own history. When the White Paper arrived in 1999, she gave some more help, cleared up something more in the division of responsibilities in relation to baptism certificates and schooling, etc., but she also clearly shows the holes for which the government itself has to take responsibility. One of the most important arguments, however, is in our view the further research, which has revealed extensive restraints and actions on the part of the government that have laid the basis for too many extra difficult lives. That's why we think that when the lower limit of the allowance already very often has a doctor of between NOK 40,000 and NOK 60,000, it should have our starting point. 60 000 kroner, and not 20 000 kroner, should be the starting point for replacing the war children. I am surprised that the last research of Lars Borgersrud is not given more weight. Lars Borgersrud was on the phone. He showed how the collection of child contributions was stopped by the Ministry of Social Affairs. He showed how the war children were treated in a special way with regard to the introduction of the child-rescue law, and he also showed how the state advance on child-responsive contributions was subsequently managed so that in practice no one was involved. All of this should, in our view, be a starting point of NOK 60000. When it comes to the roman people, the government has provided a very good starting point for evaluating the individual now in relation to the inhabitants otherwise, and when it opens now for rescanning, and for several reasons. Some of us in the committee stress that self-declaration in relation to unlawful sterilisation should be emphasised, but we had hoped that there would have been a change in the laws to make it absolutely clear what the offer would be in the case of legal aid. Finally – 5 minutes go by quickly – on intercourse and women: we find it necessary to stress that when bullying is given weight to war children, romanists and tattoos, it also has to be true of Samaritans and women. One must also stress that there is a need for assistance for all groups to promote applications, that it must be possible to re-apply, and that there is a need for a rapid procedure. Then I get to come back in a three-minute post for further deepening the situation of partners and women.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e360	Norway is today one of the world’s best countries to live in for the most, but it has not always been so. In the development towards a modern welfare state, people have fallen outside and thus not been given the same benefits and opportunities as the majority of Norwegian citizens have. It is not possible to stick under the chair that many of these are mentioned in St. gemeld. No 44. In addition, it is a common feature that the problems have their origins in views and attitudes in the societies of the past, attitudes that we are taking away from today. It's important that the authorities take care of the treatment that the people we're talking about have been exposed to. First of all, it is important that a complaint be made by the authorities about the critical issues affecting the group as a whole – including, of course, all individuals – and which have marked growth and adulthood for many Norwegian citizens. Secondly, it is important to gain knowledge about the conditions that have been, and are, typical of those affected. And last but not least, the question of whether individuals have been suffering so much that they should be awarded a financial reward under the cheap compensation scheme of the Storting. In May 2003, the Government set up a working group to assess the overall treatment of reasonableness-based requirements of different social groups. The report of the group is attached to St.meld. No 44 and in short, such requirements are channelled into the existing cheap substitute scheme and the Storting takes a position on any adjustments to the criteria currently applicable to the scheme. In the New Year's Eve on 1 January 2000, the Prime Minister complained that many war children had been treated in the post-war period. The government has followed this up by carrying out extensive research on the growing conditions of war children, which is also referred to in the debate here today. Research revealed several critical issues, some of which are of a very serious nature. It is my hope that the research material and the public debate have given the war children a recognition and society an understanding of what they have been through, and that this relieves the strain that many people feel. At the same time, it is my hope that in today's society we can draw lessons from the research material in contact with groups and individuals in the society we live in. In the proposal, the government mentions a relationship that has typically affected war children, namely bullying. Mobbing is a significant extension of current practices, where cheapness replacements are not provided because of difficult growth conditions. To the extent that he has been subjected to particularly serious bullying and is able to demonstrate that he or she has suffered mental damage as a result of bullying, this may, in accordance with the Government's proposal, as the Committee also states, provide a cheap substitute at the same level as similar damages to those caused by the present system. However, the Government has also taken into account evidence of the type of assault involving bullying and has proposed a lower amount of compensation based on the applicant’s own declaration. This, too, is a clear change in relation to what is required of the evidence for today’s low-cost substitute. We live in a time when we focus on injuries and high amounts of compensation in this respect. It is important to stress that there is no similarity between the economic measurement under general law and the Grand Duchy’s cheapness compensation scheme. Welfare schemes, such as popular protection, must meet the needs of individual citizens for economic security. Billing compensation shall not be a crown of crown compensation which comes as an addition to compensation rules and social security schemes. Billing compensation can therefore be seen in practice as a symbolic confirmation that society is serious about its apology. Those who get the bills will have suffered a lot of harm, and a replacement payment will never change that. However, my hope is that those people who fall under an extended system of cheap substitutes – both war children, tattooists, and sams and women who did not get school during the war – feel a satisfaction by hearing and believing their stories, and thereby being able to live on with what they have experienced in their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e378	There is no doubt that both the Ministry of Justice and other departments here have been faced with difficult decisions before one should finally offer a recommendation. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice for a comment on what has come out of research after the committee has put forward its position. The Committee says that it is important that the final decisions be taken in the light of this new knowledge, in relation to both the state’s activity towards the war children, the evolution of their living conditions and experiences in growth. The committee could have expanded this even more, but it has not. But I guess the Council of State has thought through how he will follow this up with the Secretariat. I'm asking for his comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e383	First, a general comment on research. It was very important, when the Storting was about to deal with the matter today, what the Storting in its time said, that you shouldn't wait for final research to do anything. The government has followed up on this, and so has the Gazette Committee. If we were to wait for the final research, we would have to wait a very long time. So in this case – and here the representative Kleppa, as stated earlier, has made a fine effort – it has added knowledge. The knowledge that comes further, I expect, will be knowledge and insight that the one who goes in and applies for cheap compensation, will benefit, and that I also expect to provide a collective insight into society. As a government council, I do not process either on behalf of the Stortinget or on behalf of the Billing Replacement Committee, but collective insight and collective understanding is a good thing that we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e388	First, I would like to say that SV agrees with the Central Party that bullying of cohabitants and women as a result of the opinion and policy of the authorities must also be included in a compensation measurement for applicants from these groups, such as for war children and the Roma people. We agree that cheap compensation is a symbolic excuse and upliftment, as the Council of State said. But wouldn't it be reasonable to put the minimum level here at the same level as for other cheap substitutes, i.e. a place between NOK 40,000 and NOK 60,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e395	The representative of Thorkildsen and I have it in common that we look at the cheap substitute system as in practice a symbolic handshake. In the public debate, the representative has also promoted this view in an excellent way, including: Having regard to the arrangements we otherwise have in Norway. In the case of reasonableness, there may be a balance made by the individual. I have explained that we have lowered the threshold for what is required at all to get under the scheme. Once we've done that, it's because people who live in the situation that the war children have done, otherwise could be at risk of falling outside almost everything. So that's my answer to this. Then I have the additional response, as the representative Gjul said, that I don't think the matter is suitable to race with each other about who can make the best contribution. I also do not believe that the representative of Thorkildsen has done so, but I feel that I have, in fact, submitted a proposal that has been accepted in practice by the government parties, the Progress Party – and therefore also in practice by the Progress Party, as the representative Gjul did, see the correction of Dørum in his next post. – and I'll take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e407	As the Council of State is well aware, on page 6 the Committee has made it clear that the substitution of cheapness is to be reserved for the person who ‘had suffered’ particular suffering, loss and unfairness, but that it is not necessarily necessary to have undergone ‘special suffering’ afterwards. I understood from the statements of the Council of State that he saw it almost so that bullying itself can give NOK 20 000, and that bullying with serious consequences can give NOK 60 000. A joint committee says: ‘The consequences of the overload/attacks on the war child later in life will be a relevant element to emphasise in determining the amount of compensation.’;» Does the Council agree that bullying that can be supported by documentation can also provide more than NOK 20 000, even if the aftereffects have not been of the most serious nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e422	First of all, I'm sorry that I got so excited about the previous post that I think I got hurt to include the representative Gjul in the crazy party political context. What I meant to say was that the government parties with the support of the Progress Party, but also in practice with the support of the Workers' Party – as Gjul said – are behind the scheme. Regarding the question from the representative Kukkestad, I have the following short comment: I have nothing to add or subtract from what Stortinget has expressed through the committee setting. I expect the wise people who will do this later will listen both to this debate and to the position that has been taken on the part of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e430	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e433	Two of the issues raised in the suspension, which have been transferred from the Government, are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and have been among the issues we have worked on. I would like to stress that both the question of replacement for the tattoo/romani people and the question of compensation for those suffering from educational injury as well as for women have been difficult questions – not because it is difficult to see that it is reasonable what we are doing today, but because the cheap compensation scheme is a scheme that is below the Stortinge, which has actually done the opposite of what is being done today in dealing with individual cases in repeated decisions. We therefore consider it important to follow up both the unanimous comment and the minority comment related to the Roma population in the context of the treatment of St.meld by the Municipal Committee. No 15 for 2000–2001 in this way that we put a broad field of action before the Storting with some recommendations. As far as the results are concerned, I believe that the leaders that have been set up are broadly in line with what we have proposed, and that this is of course the lead for the Bureau of the Committee on Credits, which is dealing with the applications, so that it is not primarily the government's task to carry it out further. I am very pleased that we have managed to reach an agreement that, although the main principle of the cheap compensation scheme has been that there is no substitute for conditions that have been in line with previous standards, this could not be the case in matters where there has been almost some form of racist thinking in Norwegian society, linked to minority populations – to tattoos and romanists, to cohabitants and women – in Norway. It is clear that much of what we are now substituting for is the result of a systematic attitude, that someone was second-guess -- we can't say that it was acceptable because it was generally accepted at the time. We have done something about this through two different schemes. We've done it earlier by establishing the Same People's Fund, a collective compensation for joint research policy that was a result of our belief that the Nordics might be better, and better able to solve problems than the joint, and what the Sami culture stood for. We have also done so in the context of the revised national budget, as we established a fund also linked to the Roma people. In both of these contexts, questions about the individual claims and the treatment of the bills have been discussed. What we're doing now is to ensure that we grant exemptions from the general position that there is no substitute for conditions that were in accordance with previous standards or that it is not acceptable in relation to the standards that applied at the time. This concerns the question of compensation for forced sterilisation, for which the government parties, SV and the Central Party were specifically concerned with the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2000-2001. We believe – and have investigated – that these should be specific leads for within the cheap substitutes system, and that we have fulfilled the wishes of the minority at the time. I am pleased that everyone now agrees that it should be looked at separately. In addition, it is clear that many other issues related to the treatment of the Roma population in Norway provide a basis for substitution. What is now done by granting an exception to the general norm allows for all these conditions to be considered. With regard to the loss of school during the war, and the search, on several occasions the Stortinge has been referred to the Same People's Fund. At the same time as the Same People’s Fund was adopted, the Stortinget explicitly informed that it should not be used for individual claims. We therefore believe it is quite natural to open up the whole base of cases relating to cheap substitutes, linked to the loss of education during the war – also as part of the research policy. By January 2002 at the latest, the Stortinget rejected 105 complaints. We now believe that all of these can be reopened. We are committed to finding good ways to inform about the arrangements, and we are prepared to find ways to help legally. We're going to work further both towards the Roma people and towards their peers and women to get the legal help and, if necessary, to quickly get things re-established that have already been rejected. These things are clear, so it can only be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e447	There is every reason to commend the ministry for the way they have handled the fact that the Roma and the tattoos can have different reasons for seeking, and that it is said that this can also be compensation that needs to be assessed against each other. It is good that it is so clear, and that the Council of State is now clarifying it today. I have a question about the merger's decision, the merger's announcement, in which they ask for the outsourcing of research policy also in areas of society other than education – namely whether there are other groups that have suffered the conflagration during and after the last war. The limit values may be such a group. I have reason to believe that the Government has put in place a plan for a dialogue with the Sameting for how it can be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e454	Let me stress that it is nice to get praise from the representative Meltveit Kleppa in between. We are concerned that we should also have a good dialogue with the Sameting in terms of research policy in general. To the extent that there is an individual basis for compensation, i.e. in relation to the basis of cheapness, it is clear that the current leadership – that we cannot always accept that standards that were in force at the time can provide a basis for loss of rights or other means of loss – will be a principle which the LFS must take with it further. As far as frontier unemployment is concerned, it is a topic that we can look at – also a dialogue with Sametinget. But I want to underline one thing: it's like the cheap compensation scheme is the Storting scheme, and in a way, it's a bit of a big deal's responsibility to lead this system. When we have brought up a matter from the Government in this round, it is because there have been special wishes from the Storting in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e463	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e468	It's hard to understand what the war children have experienced and gone through. I really don't think it's possible to know without having experienced it. The hatred against the Germans as a group in the Norwegian people made them 100 pst. the innocent children of victims. This was also unworthy of public authorities. The matter the Stortinge treats today, is a fuss from one of the most dramatic things that happened in our part of the world in the last century. On a European basis, it is estimated that there are about two million war children. In most countries, the problems these innocent children have had to go through are just pushed under the carpet. In Norway, we have between 10,000 and 12,000 war children. For most of these, it's a heavy burden just to tell the environment that you're a war child. On this day I want to give honor to the small group who have dared to stand up and say: I am a war child, I am a « German boy». It was this word that was used so diligently in Norwegian villages and cities in the mention of the innocent children with German father. Those who have fought in year after year for the recognition and admission of the wrong, without any kind of compensation for this, and without giving up, have much of the credit that this matter is being dealt with today. I don't think there can be any peace on this matter in our lifetime. It's really impossible to make up for the abuses and injustices that have been committed. The serious thing is that the hatred — and abhorrence — against the war children was so strong that it was also propagated to the Norwegian authorities. It was probably not a policy adopted, but more public service opinions. The involvement of the state and the municipalities in the suffering of the war children is a regrettable part of Norwegian history. War children are Norwegian citizens. They have exactly the same rights as all other Norwegian citizens in terms of education, social services, health care and protection. But a war child I know was hidden away from a grandfather who was not yet there and lived in a house without water. The child was to be hidden – and was not even allowed to come to her own mother's wedding when she got married some years after the war. The child did not learn to wash, which led to massive bullying throughout childhood and youth. How will he be able to document this? He's ruined his life. The committee setting today is probably acknowledgment of the wrong committed. But it's hard to see this as something other than a beginning to settle for injustice. My hope is that the authorities will make very low demands for evidence of infringement and injustice, so that as much as possible the maximum compensation limit can be reached, of NOK 200000. It will in any case not represent a repair of the damage, but there will be a signal that the calls for recognition are finally beginning to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e481	Only some closing comments. First, when it comes to intercourse and women, I thought it was good for the Council of State to state that the department here is going to follow up its part of this. When it comes to the cheap substitute scheme, it is – as it has our lines under here – the issue of the Stortinget. I thought it was an important day on the one hand to point out that there are individuals who are not happy today, because this has been ripping up in stories they experience as a past stage, and they don't want any more focus on. But on the other hand, it is very joyful and meticulous that many individuals have stood up with their stories and thus have contributed to the dark chapters in our history being brought to light – and that we now have a big message and a committee setting with so clever leadership for Stortinget’s further work on this matter. It's important to stress when it comes to war children, that one here has both a big message and a committee position. A recent research has also been carried out after the submission of the message, which is additional documentation, and which needs to be done when the Committee on Privileged Replacements is going to be part of this job. It is important for those who are now going to follow up on this from the Storing page, that a visitation work - as is now permitted in the setting - be undertaken in order to recognize the possibility of rescanning for those who are given the opportunity to do so today. It is important to facilitate the availability and the necessary assistance in carrying out their application. And of course, it is very decisive that the follow-up of the different groups does not lead to new years, but that it will facilitate rapid action. That's the first time we can put a dot in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e494	The poet says: 'You must not tolerate as much injustice as you do not touch yourself!' I am therefore pleased that a total increase today will lament the injustice committed against individuals in Norway – to a large extent with the blessing of the authorities. The rapporteur stressed that the compensation for cheapness would never be a substitute for ruined lives, but above all a deep regret for the wrong that has been committed. Today's document adapts cheapness compensation to three groups: the Romani people, the Sami and the women, and the war children. This means, therefore, that there should be more limited documentation requirements in respect of replacements for applicants who would not have been compensated – the way the cheap compensation scheme works today – if the Government had not submitted its proposal for an extension of the scheme. As State Councillor Solberg had in mind, the Municipal Committee has dealt with several of these issues in the past, including: Int. S. No 145 for 2000–2001, on national minorities in Norway, treated by the Stortinget in 2001, and where questions were raised about compensation for abuse committed against the Roma population. I've had the pleasure of following up on this, among other things. with questions to the Council of State Solberg on compensation for forced sterilised, compulsorily placed in an institution and compulsorily adopted. I pointed out at the time that there were many old ones, so we had to act quickly. In January 2003, the government set up a working group to assess the issue of forced sterilisation. In time, I have received many telephones from individuals from the Roma people. Some have been able to tell about how they have tried to hide that they are of tattoos throughout their adult life. One I've had the pleasure of working with for a long time has been able to tell that he was taken from his mother, placed in institutions and then adopted away. He and his adoptive parents tried to get in touch with the biological parents, but they were told by the homeless and by the authorities that this was not wanted by the biological parents. When he contacted me, he had just got in touch with his mother. He had made contact with the Salvation Army, who found her in the course of a week. She had wanted her whole life to meet her son. There are many atrocities committed: I thought this was an old man – he was born the year I took Artium. It's not that long ago, so there's a fairly new story we're talking about. I feel the need – on behalf of society – to complain that we have had laws and rules that made it possible to commit such an injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e514	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1935]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e531	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1935]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e548	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1935]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e564	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1935]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e580	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1935]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e596	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e603	Many have indicated that document no. 8:32, which is the background for this debate, should not be a matter in the Storting. I'm far on the road along in it. The background for the whole thing, the height of the tunnels on the E134 at Haukeli, should have found a decent solution for the State Road Service, so that it was not seen at the head in such a way that the staging representatives felt it necessary to present a Document No. Eight proposals. E134 over Haukeli is the most important major road link from Austria to much of Rogaland and Hordaland. For the industry in the area of land covered by this road, it is crucial that they continue to be able to use the road for the transport of food. Long bypasses will impose additional costs on a competitive business. This is why municipalities, county councils, businesses and individuals in the area have been strongly involved. The extent and strength of our commitment has been great. This is a matter where different interests have to be taken care of. In addition to regional and business interests, road safety and respect for traffic rules are important elements in the case. Nor should the environmental aspect be forgotten when heavy transport is recommended to run long bypasses. The committee has sent several questions to the ministry, had open hearings and spent a long time on the matter to ensure that we have come up with different aspects and necessary facts. At the same time, it has been important that we have time and space for dialogue between different interest groups, hoping that they will find an acceptable solution. What I do not have in this case, where road safety has been pointed out as an essential element, are more thorough assessments by the State Road Administration on the road safety side of the traffic routes recommended by the State Road Administration and the Department. Some of the bypasses are not built for increased traffic of heavy goods vehicles. Some bypasses also pass through densely populated areas, such as Odda, where transit traffic must cross between 10 and 20 pedestrian fields. What about traffic security there? That doesn't say anything about the state road system. In my work on this matter, I have many times wondered how a matter that should initially be resolved with flexibility and dialogue between interested parties could become a conflict case with an extent that the matter does not flare up. Fortunately, it is not common in the hearings that the committee believes there is as direct criticism as in this matter of the state road system, and in particular the Region West, for the way they have dealt with the challenges. I believe many people have looked at me, and look at the State Road Service as an important service establishment, an important service body. Many suggest that the state road authority has not been able to act as expected in this matter. Many who have made contact with me have expressed, as they say, that it has been a difficult dialogue, which has gone on the loose. It's obvious that the state road system here has a great potential for improvement. There is a joint committee which, in its comments, shows that there is now a positive dialogue between the stakeholders in the matter and that it is to be put in place to plan and implement the repair/extension of the tunnels in Haukeli. In addition, the Committee is concerned that the improvements that are being made, as far as is advisable, take care of the interests of industry. This case, as mentioned earlier, has received great attention, and many have had opinions on the solution proposed by the State Road Administration so far. From the plant industry, it is claimed that the optimal solutions are not necessarily the most expensive. Therefore, the Committee believes that it is important that different solutions are considered in the context of procurement. This is the Committee's clear advice to the State Road Service, but now it is the State Road Service that has to do the job of finding the right solutions. The Committee, on its side, chooses to add Document No. 8:32 by the minutes, but at the same time the committee asks to be properly informed in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e626	I agree with the case spokesman and others that it should be unnecessary for this matter to be written in the Stortinget. That amount shall not be subject to any procedural procedure. And there could have been a better solution to it between the department, the Vegvesenet and the Truck Car Association as stakeholders if there had been a better dialogue at first, not least if one had agreed on the facts. It would have created less noise and less fuss. In the media debate, there are many allegations and suspicions that may seem both unworthy and unsubstantiated, such as the misinforming of the state council, the training of the Road Service, a disagreement about height measurements, and there is complete confusion about who is to determine height measurements, etc. As I said, this could have been avoided if the Council had shown a little greater will and had been a little more flexible at an earlier time. I'm not going to decide on these claims right now, but I'm just happy to say that the Storting is going to be in this case. This means that we can get a good solution for all parties in this case, and the Road Service can once again get a chance to work out more trust. The comments in the settings are so clear and clear that now the department and the vegetate should solve the challenges associated with the tunnels in a fast and good way. And there's no doubt that E134 is the most important main link between Austland and parts of Rogaland and Hordaland. It also shows the great commitment in this matter. Today's setting is greeted with cheers and excitement by several actors working for a better ride across Haukeli. There is no doubt that both society and business need a standard on this tribal road that meets today's transport requirements. Therefore, it could already be tempted to demand that work on improving the tunnels to 4.2 m should have gone out in the first round of tenders. Nor is there any doubt that this is the long-term intention of the recommendation for the decision. Out of respect for the fact that Stortinget is not going to process the case, I am satisfied that the case now stands as it stands, but I would like to stress that Stortinget will not be able to find itself in a slow progress in this matter. Here we require action; we require rapid action; otherwise, the Storting will probably take new initiatives if one is not satisfied with the information requested and which will be given during the spring session. It is important to remove bottlenecks on the road network in order to provide effective logistics and reliable accessibility. I am aware that there are many tunnels in the country that have a height lower than the height of the cars with which the transport industry is operating. E134 over Haukeli is just part of the problem. But it is claimed from the industry that the tunnels are the wrong sign and that there is a need for control measurements. Here I encourage the Council of State and the Road Service to make arrangements based on a proper factual basis. It'll seem to all the parties that there's agreement on the facts. When it comes to E134 between Austria and the West, I have been concerned about the importance of this transport corridor for the population and business of the affected states. It can also be claimed that the tunnels with a relatively small repair can be used by cars up to 4.2 m. I'm busy transporting in a safe and legal way all over the country. When combinations of vehicles are stopped at Haukeli, they are redirected to other locations that are not built for these combinations or for this traffic. It also carries dangerous transport. It is therefore so important that action is taken as soon as possible, so that cars with a height of up to 4.2 m can legally operate E134 over Haukeli. I appeal to the Council of State that she pleads for this to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e645	This Document No The 8th proposal concerns the immediate introduction of remedial measures to allow vehicle combinations above 4 metres in height to pass through the Haukeli tunnels. The fact that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol today does not mean that nothing will happen in this case, for this route, E134, is an important link between the East and parts of Hordaland and Rogaland. In Norway, we do not have a general vehicle height limit, but all tunnels, subways and other obstacles with a permissible height of less than 4,5 m shall be separated by the maximum permissible height. Such a set of permissible heights is made both for safety reasons and in order to avoid damage to construction works and equipment installed in connection with the road. And it is important that road users comply with these provisions – for their own and others' safety. With regard to this matter, there is now a contact between, among other things, State Road Administration, industry representatives, Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal and Haukeliveien AS, where the planning of improvements and extensions of tunnels is a topic. Here, different ways to come up with sensible solutions will be addressed. The right-hand side also records that local and regional interests and the business community believe that E134 needs to be organised for cars up to 4.2 m as soon as possible. This issue is not only relevant here in Norway, but the State Road Service initiative now taken by identifying all tunnels less than 4.2 m in major road sections in the country is important. Finally, I am pleased with the dialogue that the State Road Administration has with the business community, and the Committee will receive appropriate information on the matter during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e658	On behalf of the Advancement Party, I would like to say that we agree with most of what the rapporteur has explained, but with two reservations. Firstly, this is actually an example of how it is good to have an arrangement with Document No. Eight proposals, including in cases like this, that allow us to clean up an incredibly bureaucratic attitude. Secondly, we want this cleanup to go all the way forward, so that the Storting actually gives the road authorities clear instructions on what they want as a final solution. I understand that the committee has the same desire. We say it directly, and I therefore take up the proposal of the Advance Party from the vote. The background, as several others have pointed out, is that E134 is the main link between the East and Hordaland and Rogaland — two counties west of Norway. The background for this document no. The 8-proposal is that there came a so-called reinforced rule practice almost overnight, without notice, which created understandable and strong reactions from a business that is quite dependent on having their goods transported to and from wheels over Haukeli. What we are satisfied with from the Progress Party, when we have been involved in bringing this matter to the Grand Council, is that this is an overall committee, that in any case, both in comments and in clearly shown intention, one is united. We are also pleased that the Committee does not let go of the matter, but asks to be properly briefed. As far as road authorities are concerned, it is less to rejoice over. At the same time, we are fully aware that there has been a gradual embellishment of the positions of both the competent authority and the political level during the committee's examination of the matter. It's obvious. It is also gratifying that there has been a thorough examination in the Committee, and it is gratifying that those who have shown comprehensible and strong reactions have been given the opportunity, through consultation, to present their views to the Committee in a clear and good manner. I'm sure that's helped to achieve a good result. This concerns, among other things: to demonstrate flexibility so that transport can proceed. I have also enjoyed a movement at the Council of State and a clarification related to a parallel case in a Question Time here in Stortinget on 9 February 2005. There was another tunnel, but the problem was exactly the same. Then the Council of State said: ‘In Norway, we have chosen not to set such a limit’, i.e. 4 m. – ‘It has recently been shown that it may be difficult not to have a general limitation on the height of cars. But we want a little bit more flexible solutions. We're a country that sometimes needs a little more flexible solutions, and therefore I'm going to work to hopefully avoid having to have that kind of limit on the permissible height of cars." It is promising, and I hope it is also used to ensure that we now move quite quickly and okay towards free driving, not centered driving and not illegal driving at Haukeli, but with a permissible height of 4.2 m. In the same questionnaire, the Council of State said on follow-up questions: ‘When you want to have a safety margin to go on here, it’s probably the philosophy that you have to round down and not up.’ There's been some point of view on how you've calculated the height of Haukeli, and you've calculated quite differently and got quite different results. I hope the movement we have seen at the road authorities and at the political authority continues, and that we can quickly get a proper solution. I hope so, but today I have become a little worried. I have received a letter dated 30 March 2005 from Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund to the Directorate of Roads, expressing a great deal of concern about exemptions practices in the case of special transport services at E134 over Haukeli. So it's another thing, but it's the same main road connection, and you're worried about signals from the Road Directorate that you're going to start tightening up. The irony is that, among other things, will go beyond the transport of equipment for, inter alia: to repair both Haukeli and adjacent road links. I hope there's a clarification from the Council of State that there's no cause for concern in that area either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e686	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e689	Let me first of all express my satisfaction at the fact that the Committee has put an overall view of the proposal – and this despite a broad consensus that this is a matter which does not belong in the Stortinget. Haukeliveien is one of the main road links between East Norway and West Norway. The road forms the backbone of a network serving national, regional and local needs. It is in everyone's interest that E134 is open and functioning well and that road safety is ensured in all areas. Especially for business, good promotion on Haukeliveien is of great importance. For example, for Fatland Slaughterhouse in the Beer, the Haukeliveien is absolutely crucial. 70 pst. of all the products, both fresh and frozen meat, that way. If the road is not open to this transport, there will be far greater costs for the company. Furthermore, the period between ordering fresh goods and their delivery will be longer. This is an important factor. Rapid supply is essential for the supply of fresh meat from Haugaland to the East, and therefore this is also an important issue for agriculture in Northern Rogaland. In addition to the importance of the transport corridor, E134 also plays an important role for the population and business in the counties and municipalities through which the road passes. The development of local environments, not least in Telemark, but also in a number of other counties such as Rogaland, Buskerud and Hordaland, depends entirely on the fact that E134 can continue to play an important role as a safe and reliable transport year. So the way over Haukelifjell has to be open and work well, but we can't go on chords with security. The Christian People's Party will never give consideration to security elsewhere. We must always be clear that road safety is of the highest priority. Then the Christian People's Party will stress that we do not want to specialise in Haukeli, either in one way or another. Otherwise, there are a number of tunnels in similar open-ended situations in the country. The Christian People's Party is therefore satisfied that the State Road Service is in the process of assessing all tunnels with a permissible height of less than 4,2 m on all the main roads in the country. It is positive that the Swedish Road Administration has engaged in dialogue with the business community in this matter. Finally, I would like to mention the responsibility of the transport industry for road safety. The transport industry has played an active role and is an important part in this matter. We would stress that the industry, like all other road users, is obliged to comply with the provisions in force at all times, including in the case of material acquisitions. To conclude, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Transport on its overall position and stress the importance of Haukeliverein. In the Christian People's Party we will follow closely the development further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e706	I broadly agree with the remarks made by the rapporteur on this matter. Let me just clarify two things: I'm very happy that the committee is as broad as it is, and that you've put yourself in the harness to make sure that with this treatment you can have a good process in the future. Let me say that in order for us to do that, all actors – those who perceive themselves as stakeholders and others – really have to put themselves in the harness, so that we do not have to go into individual matters for the future. This case really shouldn't have been here. It should have been solved before it came to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e713	Through parts of the media who have followed this case, there have been some very unsounding allegations and accusations against the State Road Administration for the manner in which they have acted. According to the press, it is among other things. said that the Road Administration has taken care of itself, and that the department has driven politics. I will refute this criticism. I would say that there are parts of the truck industry that have taken care of and that therefore have to endure criticism. If the Road Service is to be criticised, it must be in order that they have not reacted to the unlawful driving previously. I would like to stress that it is the clear responsibility of road users to comply with traffic rules, and I assume that the Committee agrees with me that this also applies to signs indicating the maximum permissible height. On E134 over Haukeli this sign has indicated 4.0 m for many years. The State Road Service has become aware of the illegal use of vehicles that are too high. This has been discovered by damage to equipment in the tunnels, by observations of vehicle combinations running in or near the middle of the lane and by public reports of dangerous situations. I am very serious about the fact that it is being driven with vehicles that are higher than what is allowed. When parts of the truck industry have invested in vehicles that are too high for the road sections where the vehicles are to be used, it can be interpreted in such a way that the breach of the provisions is conscious. This is unfortunate for road safety. In addition, it distorts the competition vis-à-vis the serious carriers in relation to the legislation. Part of the truck industry has thus put itself and the authorities in a difficult situation. For reasons of road safety, unauthorised driving is unacceptable. In the interests of business, I also see the need to find a solution to this problem. The Regional Road Managers of the Southern and West Roads Region of 2004 carried out some vehicle control measurements that run E134 Haukelivegen. A lot of illegal driving was found. In order to improve the possibility of re-run, the Tyssedal tunnel of rv.13 was extended to the permissible vehicle height of 4,2 m. It was so announced that it would react to illegal driving. A 24-hour check was carried out between 1 and 2. of December 2004. After a liberal assessment of the measurement results, ten wagon drivers were notified to the police, who have now given each of these a proposal of NOK 4000. When the maximum authorised vehicle height of 4,0 m is a problem of E134 over Haukeli, it has to be assumed that there is also a problem with other important pedigree routes. The State Road Service, in cooperation with the Norwegian Freight Car Association, is in the process of identifying the problem and providing an overview of what is to be done in order to obtain a permitted height of 4.2 m on a national basis, as requested by the Freight Car Association. This work will be adapted to give the Storting a briefing in the spring session, as requested by the Committee. The State Road Service has already found a solution allowing a vehicle height of 4,1 m about the networks. Road services are also in the process of making plans and specifications to extend the tunnels so that they can allow 4,1 m throughout the day. The tender notice is scheduled to be completed in the middle of April and tunnel work is scheduled to be completed in good time before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e732	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e736	It's a little disappointing that attack is the best defense. I have to say that I had hoped for a more solution-oriented post – not a defense – from the Council of State, with the emphasis on getting things into clear and well-solution-oriented dialogue with the parties involved, also in line with the Council of State itself in the Questionnaire on 9 February. I still hope that it will be the actual situation. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Progress Party, that we want heights above 4 m for all tunnels. We also want safe and lawful transport, but we want it on all roads, even where other tunnels have to be used. Some of the surprises of this reinforced interpretation of the rules were that they were referred very quickly and surprisingly to other sections of the road where there were no sinfully better opportunities to pass by vehicles with a height above 4 m, and where traffic conditions were otherwise not particularly recommendable – taking into account the bypass route and the fact that the road network was thus loaded by far more miles. We want safe and lawful transport, and we want business to come forward, including heavy equipment. And then I am back to the announcement we have now received, and I want to repeat the request and the request to the Council of State – since it was not affected in the post – that we should not get a new case on Haukeli, but that we show the flexibility we have shown before, in getting plant material on the Haukeliveien. And then finally, something else that has caused a little wonder about this sudden and surprising rule practice, is that you started at 4 meters, and then it didn't take long before you had taken the reactions over and raised the list to 4.1 meters. Furthermore, there have been quite a number of different measurements and quite different results from measurements. This is the case, I have been told, that those who have driven car combinations and have been stopped and controlled by the Road Service several times have experienced being measured to three different heights. Here, there is also an improvement potential for road authorities in terms of credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e747	I didn't intend to prolong the debate by taking the floor several times, but as the debate has developed, I find it right to make some comments. First to the representative Arne Sortevik, who indicated that we disagreed when it came to Document No. The 8th proposal. I'm very happy that we have the opportunity to use Document No. Eight proposals when such situations arise, but my point was that the State Road Service should have acted in such a way that in this case it would be unnecessary for representatives to present a Document No. Eight proposals. It was basically the Council of State who got me to take the floor, because I'm surprised that the Council of State in its speech is proposing to continue the conflict line that the Committee in its configuration has tried to get away. The Committee has been constantly working to find a decent solution and to find ways in which the parties concerned could arrive at sensible and acceptable solutions. So I'm very surprised that the Council of State started its article with a way of tearing up everything that's been in the media. As case spokespersons, I have tried to look at the facts, and it is clear that if one were to take on everything that has come of claims, we could have used a lot of pages in the setting in such a case. We have worked hard in the committee, and I would like to congratulate the committee, which has agreed that we should gather on some formulations that give a clear signal to the state road system about what we want to do in the future. But we have also stressed that we should not be case handlers for the State Road Administration, and I believe that the Committee is clear. We haven't been case handlers, but we've given a signal to the State Road Administration about what we think makes sense. And then we've kicked the ball over to the state roadway and said that here's our signal, now they get the job of doing the job. I hope that the Council of State will do some work to ensure that we get this case out of the world, and that we get a solution that all parties might be able to do, even if it had to be a little long-term solution. This is not a matter of continuing a conflict line, and the issue is not likely to take too long before we can see that a solution is approaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e760	I think we very much agree that we want a good solution here, a solution that business is earned, and that not least everyone who travels on this road is earned. As far as this is concerned, we, as road users, are dealing with the legislation. When it is said that the State Road Service should have acted in such a way that this would have been unnecessary, I agree in part with that. The road service should have checked this earlier, so we knew that the height of the cars was legal. It should not be that we get into a situation where we suddenly get a case where we see that a large part of the vehicles are too high for this road section. I don't want to pursue a policy where we deprioritise road safety. I want to pursue a policy where road safety is high. This means that all of us as actors must respect the traffic rules and the signs we have. I think, as I interpret Stortinget, that we are all interested in following the rules and the signs that are. We want more people legally to be able to drive higher cars than is the case today. We know that in other countries a maximum height of 4 m is set. Had we had it in Norway, we would have avoided this matter. I have not been so eager to have such a maximum height on the cars, assuming that we need some flexible solutions. In a country like Norway, we need to transport a lot of goods. There may be a good deal of dispensations, and then we have chosen to have the profile that we are liberal in that area. But it requires that the actors who drive on the roads respect the rules that are. It is now working, as I said in my post, to put out a bid for a job to get the height up, so that you can allow 4.1 m high cars. An estimate has been made by the State Road Administration, which has been estimated at between 40 and 70 million. kr to extend the Haukeli tunnels to a height of 4,2 m, but there is also a risk that this may cost more. There are no plans at present which can form a framework for the award of tenders. There will be extensive work and it is difficult to estimate the time needs today. I see it as highly desirable that we continue to work with and finish work at 4.1 m, and that we continue to work with the investigation that the LVG and the State Road Administration are working together in relation to the analyses of 4.2 m, so that both business and road users can travel safely on the E134.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e771	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e779	We shall then proceed to voting on the matter No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e787	In the course of the debate, Mr Thorkildsen has tabled a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The minimum amount of compensation for children of war shall be set at NOK 60000.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e817	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 March 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a guide to the regulation provided for in Section 3 of the SE Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e836	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Einar Holstad on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 March 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess on an ongoing basis the need to draw up a guide to the regulation provided for in Section 3 of the SE Act and to draw up such guidance if three or more European companies are established in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e883	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The road authorities of the Member States shall submit for tender tenders the Haukeli tunnels with a height of not less than 4,20 metres based on the various solutions presented.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-04.ana.ud166e1046	No. l67 will be set up for treatment at the end of tomorrow's grand meeting.
