ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e28	The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The appointed alternates from Akershu County, Sverre Myrli and Mette Korsrud, have taken their seats. The representative of Gjermund Hagesetter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e44	Today I have the joy on behalf of Per Erik Monsen and myself to propose raising the amount limit for duty-free imports from NOK 200 to NOK 1000.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e49	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e52	I have the pleasure of delivering and promoting suggestions to ask the Government to approve a free treatment plan at the Dead Sea for patients with rheumatism and muscle and skeletal disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e81	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dagfinn HøybråtenState Council Børge Brendestatsråde Morten Andreas Meyer The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative, Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e100	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. It's a big day today. The Kyoto Agreement will enter into force. It's historic because it's the first important step towards saving the environment on Earth. In Norway, emissions have increased by 9 pst. Since 1990, while in relation to the agreement we should have increased emissions by only 1 pst. So we're on an excess emission of 8 pst. Emissions are projected to increase further in the coming years. What will the Minister of Industry do to reduce emissions from Norwegian business in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e111	First, I would like to join in what the representative Ryan said, it is an important day when the Kyoto Protocol enters into force. Of course, it would have been even better if more of the countries responsible for the largest emissions had also joined the protocol. But it is true that the countries that have chosen to ratify it should, of course, comply with the Kyoto Protocol's requirements. For Norway, it is true, as the representative Ryan says, that it has been suggested that Norway can actually increase its emissions by 1 pst in 1990. I think there are few countries that can point to as many measures in broad areas as Norway in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. We were one of the first countries, if not the first, that implemented a CO2 tax, and it's high. We also have very high charges in the use of fossil fuels. It's also going to be closer to 97 pst. all electricity in Norway comes from renewable hydropower. To reduce emissions in Norway, it has a cost of action, such as: is six times higher than if one reduces emissions in other areas where, for example: can do so in the context of the modernisation of coal-fired power stations. What the Government has done, and what the Government will now do, is to stamp out all means of cost-effective action. It's in shipping, and it's in the whole oil and gas sector. We have ongoing reviews of how to meet our Kyoto commitment. But I also have to add that the flexible mechanisms, i.e. the purchase of allowances and also investments in developing countries are part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e123	The Minister of Economic Affairs got a lot of praise for his job as Minister of Environmental Protection. We in SV hope that he has taken with him part of the knowledge and experience he has from the Ministry of the Environment, when he has now entered the Ministry of Industry. We know that former Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen presented an innovation plan a little over a year ago. In this plan, environmental technologies and environmental efforts are relatively absent. Now it turns out that this plan has apparently ended up in a drawer in the Ministry of Industry – at least we have a little labeled it. But I want this plan to be re-developed and revised again, and that in a country where we have a lot of money and a lot of knowledge, you are actually willing to take some necessary steps to put environmental technology higher on the agenda. For example, in bioenergy, we have come very, very short in Norway — compared to, for example, Sweden. Will the Minister of Industry take the necessary steps and connect knowledge and money, so that we get some speed in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e130	First, thank you for the nice words about the job I did as an environmental protection minister. Of course, nutrition and the environment should go hand in hand. Investing in environmental technologies has a future ahead of us. In Germany, 1.5 million workers have their jobs in environmental technology companies. Now it is the case that the growth of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway has come offshore, on the pedestal. Looking at the growth of greenhouse gas emissions in the mainland, it is actually reduced. We face a challenge as a gas supplier to Europe: those who buy our gas will reduce their CO2 emissions if they replace coal with gas. They import Norwegian gas, thereby increasing greenhouse gas emissions. We agree with the commitment that we should take responsibility here. We will do that through good action in Norway, but we have also assumed that we should be able to use the Kyoto mechanisms – buy allowances and also use the green development mechanism, that is. make investments in countries where you can get more money back.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e142	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e145	If you have ambitions, it is possible to combine many different relationships and achieve a gain. In the field of energy, it is possible to invest widely in energy development, technology and research to generate alternative energy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. We've seen it in Denmark. Over two to three decades, a wind power technology has been developed that is now Denmark’s second largest export article. It is possible, if you have ambitions – and we should have ambitions about this – to create new large industries in Norway that create jobs and environmentally friendly technologies and enable us to achieve the environmental objectives set by the Kyoto Agreement. But then we have to have a government or some government councils that have ambitions, that want to take some bold, bold grip. This field is open to large, bold grip. My question to the Council of State is: Will he try to see if it is possible to create new industries in the field of solar energy, in the field of biofuels, within CO2 injection in the North Sea? There are many different fields that are really just completely open for someone to take up this and try to do this job. My challenge is: Will the Council of State take these initiatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e157	Of course, it is good to be bold, but if these measures can also be profitable and provide more Norwegian jobs, it is even better. That's what the innovation plan says on my desk, and that I look at every day – it's definitely not in a drawer. What we're going to live on in the future in Norway are products where we can work in knowledge, development, research and design, so that we work smarter and thus get a higher price in the market and also defend our cost level. In the fields of environmental technologies, we already have success, and we should not hide it either. Scan Wafer, who is now one of the world's leaders in making solar panels, has developed through the knowledge we have from the Norwegian process industry related to silicon. In wind power, there are already many Norwegian players on the market, and we have ambitious targets to also increase the use of renewable energy in wind power. There are also some breakthroughs in relation to other renewable energies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e167	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e170	Many enterprises and jobs are also threatened by spe­cific environmental requirements, which help to reduce the competitiveness of enterprises compared to similar enterprises, for example. in the EU area. Does the Minister of Industry see this conflict, and what will he do in that case to contribute to the best possible harmonisation of this legislation in order to reduce distortions of competition arising in the Norwegian market as a result of strange rules? It is reasonable that in some industries we have a challenge in this area. It is well and good that Norway is concerned with environmental prevention — I think many agree on this — but it must not be done in such a way that Norwegian companies lose out on competition because many of our European neighbours have designed the legislation differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e177	In a future-oriented industrial policy, setting environmental requirements is an important element. But here's the difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. It has to be a balance. I believe that we should continue to be offensive in relation to environmental requirements. However, it must be done in such a way that companies do not flag out and establish themselves in areas where environmental requirements are not met, or have much lower environmental requirements – including in the area of health, environment and safety in general. I think we have found a good balance here in Norway. In some areas, we have done very well in terms of exploiting fossil fuels more efficiently and perhaps also within the area to manage greenhouse gas emissions. The breakthrough we've had in reinjecting CO2 on the socket, I think it's going to be more of a future, and the government's put out research funding to develop this. Among other things, we have for the current year, in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, increased the appropriation for research into oil and gas by 60 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e189	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e192	The climate challenge is perhaps the biggest and most important environmental policy challenge we will have in the future. We in the Labour Party are very serious about the situation that we are facing in relation to the climate challenges, but we also see the opportunities. For example, we have now come a long step closer to a technology with a CO2 management where CO2 is reinjected on the base, to get more oil and gas out. Developing such an industry can lead us to become world leaders in this area – a major and important environmental policy area – and we believe that we can develop it so that it actually becomes profitable in relation to quota trading. We are therefore in favour of a company that is responsible for the entire CO2 chain, from CO2 being taken up by the North Sea to being reinjected. Does the Council of State think that such a company will be relevant to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e213	First, I must agree with the representative of Klungland that the biggest environmental challenge we are facing is probably the one related to climate change. Only in the hundreds of years to come will we be at risk of a temperature change of 3 to 5 °C. And it has to be handled. To this that Norway can be world leader in reinjecting CO2, I would say that I believe we are today world leader. We've done it. The point is that it is not cost-effective in all areas yet. We have to consider different ways to be world leaders as well. I believe that increasing research and development efforts in this area is essential. We have also shown in Norway that we are doing something to combine oil and gas and what is our traditional activity at sea, namely fisheries. Two Norwegian companies are now prequalified in connection with the Shtokman field in the Barents Sea, because we also have leading environmental technologies in arctic regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e225	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e228	I have a question for State Council Meyer. Over the last few days, we have had a lot of comments about gifts of money to the political parties, among other things. that the Christian People's Party has received money from hotel owners in Molde, while Prime Minister Bondevik has added – or planned, now we get to be precise – together seven prime ministers or presidents on at least four different occasions to these owners' hotels. Once again, we see the need to have full transparency about these kinds of gifts, so that the public, the media and others can see whether there is a connection between the gifts given and what is done back. Twice this has declined the proposal that the requirement of transparency for gifts should also apply to the local joints, i.e. that gifts to the county and locality should also be covered by the law. We have not yet received a proposal from the Meyer Council on such a law. My question is, when can we get such a law in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e239	This question has been asked earlier by the representative Giske. He gets the exact same answer. The bill is presented in such a way that Stortinget is given good time to deal with the matter and to adopt the law before the election. That means that the bill comes to Stortinget in April. I unquestionably agree with Trond Giske that openness and trust are essential in the political system. In contrast to the Trond Giske government from 2000 to 2001, we have taken effective action to strengthen confidence between the government, the political system and the population. We work along four important axes. We come to Stortinget with a proposal for a quarantine code also for politicians. We have introduced a quarantine code for people in the central government who go from politics to the central government, or who go from the central government and out into senior management positions in private business. We've established an ethical code to enhance the attention of ethics in the country. We're tightening the procurement code. We are therefore presenting, on the basis of the public-appointed committee that has looked at funding democracy, a bill that provides full transparency about gifts to the parties at local level, state level and national level. So it's not right, as Gisk points out, that this government is not doing anything in relation to these questions. It's rather the opposite of this government that's doing something, in the position we're sitting in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e250	I thank you for your answer. It is good that the Council of State promises that such a law will now be presented. We have had two occasions earlier in this house to adopt that law and for a long time seal the hole that allows you to give millions of gifts locally that can be excluded from the public, while only the central level is covered by the public. It's good that we get it into place. When we last proposed such a change in the law, in 2003, it was said by the Government that it could not have retroactive effect, i.e. that it could not work for the gifts given in the same year, i.e. in 2003. Will the same argument be used when a law is presented in April, that the gifts given in the financial year 2005 cannot be covered by the law? Does that mean that the gifts given to the campaign for the harvest will be exempt from publicity if they are given to the local level? Or will the Government ensure that all gifts given to the 2005 election campaign are subject to the requirement of publicity?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e259	We are now in a situation where the attitude of the public authority is out at the hearing. Following the expiry of the consultation period, the Government shall examine the final legislative proposal and the draft law shall be transmitted to the Stortinget in April. The representative will then receive a reply to the question. But it is not forbidden to do what the representative Giske is asking for today. It is fully possible to go beyond the disclosure requirements laid down in today's legislation. The part that I'm representing, it's exactly what I'm representing. In the 2003 local election campaign, the Right chose, despite the fact that there was no legal obligation to do so, the publication of all contributions at local level and at county level. In the 2005 election year, the lot Right has already launched a pre-flagging, in the sense that contributions are continuously registered and made publicly available on the website of the lot. So it's perfectly possible for other parties to choose a more public line than what the law actually requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e267	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bjørgov Froyn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e270	This thing has a long story. It has been debated on various occasions, and for 13-14 years back in time, it has been relevant to identify these secret donors to the Right. In recent years, we have experienced concrete issues where there has been a timely interest in whether there has been a link between economic gifts and political decisions, there are hospital housings at Ullevål University Hospitals, there are building permits on the ground, there are mutual agreements on the use of Bygdøy old homes in Oslo. In the 2003 election campaign, Oslo Right stated that they had received 400,000 kroner in gifts, while the reality was between 3 and 4 million. kr. My question is therefore: does not the Council of State feel uncomfortable that so many things will come up before the change comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e279	I don't feel uncomfortable. On the contrary, I am pleased that in so many areas we have taken hold of changes to strengthen confidence in the political system, which should strengthen confidence in the state administration system. I'm occupied with full openness. The government is occupied with full transparency. We are committed to ensuring citizens' confidence that no one can buy for political decisions. That's why we work along four axes: with transparency about party financing, where the Right already practices a more transparent approach to what the law imposes on us, with an ethical code, with a quarantine code to ensure that no one goes out and misuses information that has come as a result of a political or administrative function in the state system, and with restrictions in the procurement code, which will ensure that 230 billion public dollars for the purchase of goods and services are handled in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e286	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e289	It is good that proposals will now be made for legislative changes and full transparency on gifts to political parties. And I fully agree with the Council of State, which says that what we absolutely must try to avoid is that political gifts of money to political parties also lead to political influence on programmes or on positions in the political parties. That's why transparency is important. But what will the Council of State do where we are aware that the main sponsor and those who give money to political parties receive direct rewards in terms of influence over the politics of the parties – or the party? The most scandalous thing we have in this area is the Workers' Party, which in 2001 gave a programme commitment not to change the health pay scheme, to secure 6.7 million. kr from the National Organisation. That the Workers' Party, a party bought and paid by the LO, dares to raise this matter at all, amazes me, especially when the LO has received the reward that they are in the Programme Committee of the Workers' Party. What will the Council of State do with this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e298	I share Mr. Hagen's concern about the LO's influence over the Labour Party's policy, but there is a relationship between the Labour Party, the LO and the voters essentially get settled between themselves. It is precisely in this relationship that transparency is important, so that the voters actually know who is funding the various parties, and can also assess how gifts of money and financial support affect the policies of the parties and, where appropriate, contribute to changing positions as a result of gifts of money. But once again, openness is the central thing, the fact that the voters have insight, that the outside world can verify. And so it's going to be added to the full scope of the bill that comes to the Storting in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e303	Ågot Valle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e306	I just want to say that it must be perfectly legitimate to be able to have influence in order to defend the interests of the community and the sickness pay system. SV has also been working on this for a long time with full transparency around public contributions to the batches. It must be important that the voters know who contributes to the lots and that there are no bounds that are closed and concealed between the lots and those that contribute. For us, it is important that the contributions are made public before the election day, so that the voters know. A minority in the sample referred to by Meyer has entered into public disclosure before election date. The majority say it's not so necessary; there could be some unnecessary noise around this. Does the Council agree that it is important for voters to know in advance who has contributed to the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e315	As I also stated in the answer to Trond Giske, the government's final bill will be presented to the Storting in April, and we will come back to the details then. But I stress again that my own party, Right, before this bill is presented to the Stortinget, before it is adopted, has chosen to operate with a pre-flagging, as the representative Valle asks for. We also have gifts of money to the local party, to the county party and to the national party flag the contributions continuously on our websites, and it is fully possible for the other parties to choose the transparency line that the Right has chosen on this issue. So it's completely possible to show a transparency that's greater than what the law might require.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e320	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e323	Eight months after Stortinget’s treatment of the shipping communication, there is a strong weathering of Norwegian shipping environments. Many suggest that Norway’s time as a maritime power is soon over. Central shipping companies, like Odfjell, Farstad Shipping, Wilh. Wilhelmsen, Royal Caribbean Cruise Line etc., flags out all or part of the establishment. Shipowners are fleeing the Norwegian tonnage tax system, the number of Norwegian seafarers is going down sharply, and Norway is downgraded from third place to fifth place as the world’s shipping nation – yes, now Hong Kong is also going by. So we have a completely different situation than when Stortinget dealt with the shipping message, and I expect the government not to be in the hands of the prisoner and just to stand by this. What can we now expect from improved framework conditions, so that we can reverse this negative trend, to the benefit of Norwegian shipping and Norwegian maritime environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e331	If we see the overall maritime sector in Norway as a whole, it is a very significant and important sector for our country. In recent times, we've seen some arrows that have gone up, and we also have some challenges. If we look at our yards, which were almost empty for a few years ago, the yards now have a commission for at least over 12 billion kroner. They're doing very well. So that's what we're going to take with us. Also those who export ship’s equipment are doing very well. It is true that we need to work even harder to make conditions competitive for those who want to operate in shipping in Norway. Therefore, in the context of the budget, which was also concluded in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, the Government has improved the tonnage tax model by 110 million. kr for the current year. In addition, the Government has reduced a sample to present a recommendation in December of this year, which will also assess the totality of the Norwegian tax system for shipping companies against the system that is now being observed in the EU. In addition, we have launched an initiative to make the NIS register more attractive, by going through various measures to make it more competitive. It is also true that in Norway, we spend more than DKK 1 billion on the budget in connection with various support schemes for seafarers. Never have we spent so much money on these measures. The sum is that the maritime sector in Norway is doing very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e340	The Progress Party strongly disagrees with the Government. It's too defensive. In Europe, even Germany has now passed Norway as a shipping country, measured in tonnage, and several other countries are soon following. After all, when we look at the Lisbon Agreement, the EU has as a strategy to build itself up as a maritime major act by 2010. We'll see the results. They suck their skills, their value and their jobs. Norway has taken some action, but there are seconds of action in relation to what we see in the EU. Can we not soon understand that we need to harmonise the framework conditions with those of the European Union and introduce exactly the same conditions for seafarers and shipping as we have in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e347	I think we all deserve to draw a nuanced picture of the Norwegian maritime sector. As far as ship equipment is concerned, as I mentioned, we are world leaders. 7 pst. all exports in a world context come from Norway. In the case of offshore deliveries, which are closely related to this, we have 10 pst. of the world market. So after the United States, we're next largest. In the case of Norwegian shipyards, they go better than ever. It is also true that Norwegian shipping companies have billions of profits. They run very well and very profitable. The Norwegian tonnage tax model is such that all the revenue collected from rates within the tonnage tax model is not taxed. That's the moment you take this money out to the personal owner, or reinvest it in a property project etc., you have to pay 28 pst. tax. The situation for other Norwegian companies is that they pay 28 pst. tax on its profits, and the shareholder shall also pay taxes. So we have a system that's good, but we're going to review it to see if it's good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e358	There will be two follow-up questions – first Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e361	The working party worked intensively to reach a broad agreement on the shipping communication, to maintain Norway as a leading shipping nation and to ensure that Norwegian seafarers can work on Norwegian ships. The government parties did not agree to this. Here they were completely steep, completely locked. They wouldn't be in this, and it was a shame. Now we see the negative development. Does the Council not see the importance of maintaining the maritime competence of Norwegian seafarers? What will the Council of State do to maintain the full breadth of that competence, i.e. Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships? No seafarer can, as you know, simulate himself to become a good officer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e370	I don't recognize myself in the picture that the representative is drawing. The negative development I can't see. Overall, there is a positive trend in the maritime sector in Norway. Contrary to e.g. Germany, which was mentioned, and Sweden also declines Norwegian unemployment. They have come up in a situation where they actually have what is called ‘jobless growth’, i.e. growth without growth in jobs. The maritime sector along the coast, yard and maritime industry in general is now doing very well. They employ more people, and those who have been on leave are admitted. I think that's what I hear in this overall picture. Norwegian shipping companies operate better than ever if you look at their profits. They're big. We have never spent so much money in Norway on support schemes for seafarers. We're spending 10060 million in the current year. NOK, i.e. over NOK 1 billion, on net pay arrangements and similar schemes for Norwegian seafarers, which are much more than when the Workers' Party was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e377	Here, there's a big difference in the description of reality. I wonder if the Council of State will join in today’s business and economic aspects of the Evening Post and elsewhere. There you see, as Øystein Hedstrøm said, there is a decline in our registers. We're now in the fifth place instead of where we should be, in the third place. In addition, companies do not have the same framework conditions. It surprises me that the right does not at least apply to the same framework conditions as in the EU, for example. in Sweden and Denmark. It is almost tempting to ask: Shouldn't you do something really active until the last ship leaves Norway and the last shipping office moves to London or Cyprus or elsewhere with the necessary skills for our shipbuilding industry? My last question also concerns the seafarers, of whom Bendiksen was concerned. Will the Government, if it submits the government budget for the harvest, ensure that we extend the net pay system for seafarers and ferry companies, so that the many now living in considerable uncertainty can secure jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e386	The government will be based on the competence model that we presented to the Stortinget last year in the design of the net pay scheme for 2006. On the issue of the overall maritime sector in Norway, it is doing very well. It is also such that Norwegian shipping companies operate very well. But because, among other things, It has been claimed that other countries, in the EU area, have changed their shipping tax models and made them more favourable than the system adopted by Norway in 1996, we have set up a sample to look at this. But the issue of property taxes is a very complex one. The fact that you have to pay taxes on owning a company in Norway is inside this. We actually have a situation where you pay zero taxes on profits in a company in Norway, but at the moment you take it out to your personal owner, or transfer it to another type of business, you have to pay 28 pst. tax. So those who want that model, I also ask them to think through the implications.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e393	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e396	I'd like to ask a question to State Council Meyer. Over the past few weeks, we have had several cases in the daily food sector claiming that producers have bought shelf space in the groceries sector to prevent competition. And we've had the TINE case for the very last week, where TINE allegedly tried to shut out a competitor, which is completely unacceptable, of course. Unfortunately, this has also led many people to try to doubt the organisation of the vulnerable system we have to maintain Norwegian agricultural production. State Council Sponheim has been exemplary in the nations today when he says that it is necessary to maintain both the market organisation we have today, and the import protection we have in order to maintain strong Norwegian agriculture throughout the country, where small producers too will have an opportunity. Is the Council of State Meyer in agreement with its colleague, Sponheim, that it is necessary to maintain these arrangements in order to have an agricultural policy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e405	I am pleased that the representative of Enoxen is engaged in competition in the agricultural sector and in the dairy market and is concerned with tidy conditions in the food sector. I'm glad that the law that the government passed last year, which has worked since May 1st last year, now also creates enthusiasm for the parties that actually voted against the law. I am also pleased that the Centre Party supported our proposal to strengthen the competition authorities and the Competition Authority by 10 million. kr. It is important to ensure diversity in food business, to ensure that small producers have access to the market, and it is important that small producers are allowed to challenge those who have been monopolists and who remain totally dominant in the supply of food and dairy products. I assume that the representative of Enoxsen is aware that a joint working group of the competition authorities and the agricultural authorities have looked at the division of labour between themselves, with a view to the liquidation of the specific competition rules under the direction of the agricultural authorities. This working group has now delivered its position, and it is working in the government apparatus. The Ministry of Modernisation and the Ministry of Agriculture assesses the report of the working group and we aim to send it to the hearing in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e413	I thank you for the answer, which was not really an answer to what I asked the Council of State. It is good that this working group report should be consulted and that it will once again come to a conclusion by the Government. But what I asked with all due respect, the Council of State, was whether the Council of State agreed with its colleague Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim, who says that it is absolutely necessary to maintain strong import protection, and that it is also absolutely necessary to maintain the market organisation we have today, where the role of agricultural cooperation as a market regulator is to be maintained in order to maintain a scattered agricultural situation throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e420	The role of TINE as market regulator, milk netting scheme and alternative options is addressed in this working group’s report. The Ministry of Modernisation and the Ministry of Agriculture are now cooperating on a report to be sent out at the hearing. When that consultation comes, we will clarify how to ensure framework conditions that not only safeguard agricultural policy interests but also strengthen the opportunities for competition in the dairy sector and clarify the role of market regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e425	There will be three follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e428	We do not ask what a working group thinks, but what is the Government’s attitude here and now – today – regarding the milk price equalisation system. The Prime Minister has been exemplaryly clear, the Minister of Agriculture is quite clear, and we are now asking whether Meyer is in line with his government colleagues in that what is to be investigated at the Competition Authority is TINE, not that one should use this opportunity to get rid of the milk price equalisation system. After all, milk price dithering is the system that ensures that those who are small producers receive the same price as the large ones, and that those who live far out in the districts are allowed to produce milk at the same price as those who live in the central districts – a very important and fundamental position in order to maintain a district-based and family-based agriculture here in the country. The question is quite simply: what is the Government's position per year? Today? Does the Minister for Modernization agree with the Prime Minister and with the Minister for Agriculture that the pricing system should not be attacked?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e437	In the government, we fully agree that we must strengthen competition in the dairy market. We must ensure a level playing field for those who want to use milk as a raw material for the production of finished products. We want to review the milk netting system in order to ensure that TINE challengers are also properly addressed. I can refer from the mandate of this working group: ‘The Working Group shall describe and assess the competitive conditions of the dairy market under the market organisation. Among these, different aspects of the market and the system relevant to the supervision of competition conditions and, in particular, the control of market dominance shall be described in terms of the objective of promoting competition in the dairy market.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e447	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e450	I'd like to follow up a little bit of what Marit Arnstad's representative was at. The most important measures we have had in Norwegian district policy have been differentiated between employers’ fees and agriculture. We now see opinions both from the Advancement Party and from representatives from the Right who are on the road in the wake of what is happening to Tine and are in a way designed to change the way we have organised Norwegian agriculture. We know that having the same price for milk is either on an island, far up in a valley or near the dairies is absolutely fundamental to maintaining Norwegian agricultural production and spreading agriculture throughout the country. What we're worried about, many of us -- we appreciate the Minister now going in with both post-control and all these pieces; we agree that it's really being done -- is that you don't have to flush out the main baby with the bath water in this process when you start to change. Can the Council of States promise that we will still have the arrangements that will allow us to maintain a spread of agriculture and that the price system that we have will be taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e457	I can, of course, confirm that the Government will continue to pursue an agricultural policy that ensures farmers have the opportunity to engage in sensible business activities and ensures that young people want to take part in the opportunities offered by agriculture. But I think it's important to separate these things something from each other. TINE is therefore accused – and I stress that nothing has been documented so far – of using a market dominance to try to push a competitor out. There we have competition supervision as a tool to examine whether those claims are correct and, if necessary, to propose measures. And then we have the other side, and that's an assessment of the recalculation of the milk price equalization scheme. There has been a working group set up by the two departments working and made a recommendation to the departments. It is currently being processed and must be sent to consultation within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e464	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e467	The focus of agricultural cooperatives has been on the latest. ECON Analysis has recently submitted a report stating that there are incentives for cross-subsidisation and distortion of competition, as market regulators are provided with information that competitors do not receive. They also say that market regulation mechanisms work towards increased efficiency and mean significant socio-economic losses. My question to the Council of State is: What does he want to do with these regulators in order to get equal competition? And as far as this is concerned with the milk back-testing, the Ministry of Agriculture has proposed that it be removed. If he wanted to put that back-check -- we both want more transparency and control -- for example. to the Competition Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e474	Yeah, that's one of several possibilities. There are different alternatives to today’s netting scheme. It is an alternative to continue the netting system, but with simplifications in relation to the current system. It is therefore these assessments that are contained in the report submitted by that working group. We are now using time in the two departments to process the material provided by the working group, and then, when this matter goes to the hearing, we will flag what position the Government has in terms of ensuring a level playing field for the whole dairy sector and creating security for those players who dare challenge the great, totally dominant player in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e480	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e483	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I have with pleasure noticed that the labour market is better for me. to be added to industry and to construction. Nevertheless, there is reason to recall that there are still almost 100,000 people in this country who are completely unemployed, and particularly worrying is the fact that unemployment continues to rise within a number of health-related professions, such as care workers, caregivers and nurses. At the same time, we are informed that two out of three municipalities have to cut in the number of posts this year because of the need for a municipal economy. There is reason to believe that this will mean fewer teachers, fewer caregivers and fewer people to do many of the tasks that the municipality is required to do every day. It can also lead to more unemployed and poorer public services for the population in the next round. Does the Labour Minister share the concerns of the Labour Party about the way the poor local economy works in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e492	The main picture in the Norwegian labour market is now positive. We see marked growth in employment, and we are now approaching a record level of employment in Norway. So we've seen a gradual decline in unemployment and a marked fall in unemployment at the end of last year. It is right, as the representative Uppebøen Hansen says, that there is still too high an unemployment rate, and there is still a need to have a targeted effort to reduce the unemployment rate. It must take place along two main tracks. One is to continue the economic policy underpinning recent developments, with record low interest rates, with a price rise that is also historically low, with a krone price that is manageable for competitive business, while targeting those groups that are particularly vulnerable in the labour market. The Government will. It is important that the public sector is also involved in this overall picture. There is a tight local economy in many places, but some major threat to the overall employment picture does not constitute the tightness of the local economy. However, we will follow developments closely and make our assessments towards the revised national budget, inter alia. of the level of intervention, as we have notified Stortinget about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e499	I thank you for your answer. There is every reason to believe that there is a great deal of reason for the increasing unemployment in the health, social and care sectors, and a bad community economy is a political choice. In Hedmark, the number of unemployed unskilled in the health sector is almost double in three years, and these are people who need both skills and work training. In Eastfold, the unemployment rate among health, care and care workers has risen by 57 pst. the last three years. This is a major challenge, so my question to the Council of State is: How does the Government intend to ensure that this competence and the labour force are taken care of, given the enormous need that we see for us in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e510	It is true that in the years to come, we will need more and more free hands towards care tasks in society, and this government has made a great effort to develop and further train health and care professionals through a separate action plan in this field. We place great emphasis on continuing the work in such a way that we ensure good access of personnel to the tasks that we have in the short term, and not least in the long term, in the public and private sectors of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e515	Then we get four follow-up questions – we get time for it – first Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e518	In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we proposed to increase the free income of municipalities by NOK 3 1/2 billion. According to the Statistical Central Bureau, it would have provided the basis for 7 000 to 8 000 more annual works, several employees, in the municipal sector. One would think that the Minister of Labour would have prioritised such growth in employment, and one would think that the leader of the Christian People's Party was concerned with such strengthening of e.g.. the care sector of municipalities. Does the Council of State still believe that the country's biggest challenge is the lack of tax relief for those who have the most from the past, or will he, in the time to come, rather work to strengthen the community's ability to solve its tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e525	First of all, I think it's a concern if in a situation where we have a marked growth in employment and a clear decline in unemployment, the population gives the impression that it's the opposite that's the case. We are in a positive trend, and part of the basis for that is that this government has contributed to getting the Norwegian economy in order. Then the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, asks whether the Council of State and the party leader still believe that tax laws should have priority over welfare. I do not know where he has it from that this party leader and state council has thought that it is a right priority, but the government has at least given a different priority – the government I am a member of. We've invested two or three times more in building up well-being in the period we've been behind, than we've been trying to give tax relief. What we have been committed to in terms of tax relief has been reduced to companies, for which the Workers' Party has voted. There has been a reduction in taxes on work, but an increase in taxes on consumption, and there has been a reduction in taxes on houses and homes. It's a profile and a priority that I'm most in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e532	Karin Andersen for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e535	For SV, it is quite obvious that the increase in unemployment that we now see among help nurses, among nurses, among care workers and also among teachers could have been avoided. We had got two good results from that. We had fewer people who had been unemployed, and we could have been sure, for example. that children in school had been given appropriate training, we could have ensured that old people who now do not receive the home care they need could have received it. We could also have had sick leave in these sectors, because it is also much higher than in other parts of society, precisely because there are too few who work there, and people get tired, worn out and sick by working there. But when I hear from the government council, it sounds like it was harmful if we got fewer unemployed and better care and care. Can the Council of State describe what damage will be done if our children are adequately trained, if the elderly and caregivers receive better care and more help than they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e540	It is not harmful to bet on caring for children, and this government does. It is not harmful to bet on the school – this government does. It is not harmful to bet in hospitals – this government does. If we go through and see the investment in these sectors I have now mentioned, including kindergartens, in the period that we have behind us, it is altogether only in these welfare areas two to three times more effort than what you like to draw out is given in tax relief. Then we agree that it is important to have a strong local economy. In 2004, in a budgetary settlement with the Labour Party, we strengthened the local economy, and for 2005 we have contributed to strengthening the local economy through a budgetary settlement here in the United Kingdom with the Progress Party. We will continue to have that focus, because a strong public sector is important primarily for the services of the public. The fact that it also has an employment impact is also not immaterial.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e546	There is something unreal about the Council of State's satisfaction when we know that so many older people – more – had a hand to hold in, that so many elephants had needed greater learning density, and that it is the municipal economy that has seen borders here, a municipal economy that the Government was supported by the Progress Party. The government must invest in recruitment plans in health and care. Now it's actually so that 48 pst. by active nurses working part-time – 32 pst. of these would have had a larger position. 68 pst. part-time before care – 28 pst. would have had a bigger position. Is it so that the Council of State realizes that the tasks have increased, and that it does so per year? date does not match any of the tasks and resources of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e555	The answer to the representative Meltveit Kleppa's question is yes. There is a challenge that there is too little consistency between tasks and resources in the municipal sector, and this has been the starting point for us to focus on stepping up transfers to municipalities in 2004 and to continue in 2005. There will always be unmet needs. What is important is that you focus on how to put resources where they are needed most, and make the most of them. In the case of involuntary part-time work, as pointed out by the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, the Government intends to propose to the Stortinget in the proposal for a new employment law a statutory right for part-time workers to full-time jobs when they become unemployed, just to counteract the very unfortunate fact that very many, mainly women, have part-time jobs on an involuntary basis and could wish for a full-time job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e562	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e565	It's obvious that the political memory is very short when you're about to start fronting a red-green option. Here it is shown, among other things. to strengthen staffing in the health and care sectors in municipalities. In fact, the same batches recently voted down the introduction of, among other things, in this room. manning standards. My question to the Council of State will go in a slightly different direction, but within the same theme. It depends on how we, among other things, to get disabled people into work, so that they also have an offer and do not go on passive measures, but get a meaningful daily life. In this respect, I ask the Council of State the following questions: How is the state now in relation to, among other things, The IA agreement in terms of bringing people with disabilities into working life, and what further measures will be taken to increase the number of active measures in enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e572	The IA agreement now provides very good results in terms of the reduction in sick leave. It's very joyful, and it seems that the downward trend that we saw last year can also continue. What is also particularly gratifying is that the companies that have concluded an IA agreement seem to have better results than the other companies. It shows that there has been a proper grip. With regard to the other two objectives of the IA Agreement, including more disabled people in the labour market and including more seniors in the labour market, the results are somewhat backward. There are things that indicate that we now have a greater number of people with disabilities in work than a time back. But I have mentioned to the parties, at the latest in the Contact Committee on Friday, that we need to step up efforts to get disabled and elderly people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e579	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e585	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Question 3, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered in response to question 22, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 16, from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Siri Hall Arnøy. Question 17, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e603	This question, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e606	My question is as follows: ‘Five children aged 3 to 19 have been detained in Norway, while their mother has been refused her application. The Prime Minister cannot intervene in any particular matter. He runs a government that thinks he's profiling himself on a good family policy. The government is also responsible for today's refugee policy. Does the Prime Minister think that it is good family policy to separate mother and children against their will and thus also violate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, or will he do something to ensure another and more child-friendly practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e620	At the request of the Grand Duchy, the Government last summer developed the so-called ‘long-term child regulation’ for children who had been in Norway for more than three years as asylum seekers. In 93 pst. by the cases which were dealt with under this regulation, UNE’s facilitator has granted the cases. However, a few cases had to be dealt with at the hearing, as there was considerable doubt as to whether authorisation should be granted or not. The matter asked by the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is one of these doubts. In this case, the children were given a stay, while the parents were refused. This means that parents have to return to their home country. I would like to stress that the child’s residence permit in Norway does not, of course, prevent parents from choosing to take them to their home country, as both parents have parental rights and care for the four youngest children. The oldest child, however, is 20 years old and has authority under Norwegian law. I do not agree that this matter violates the principles of the Children's Convention. Both UDI and UNE have found that this family did not need protection in Norway. It is clear that family life can be restored in the home country. The aggravation of the Storting has provided the basis for dealing with issues relating to children was not intended to imply an obligation to stay in Norway. The right to family life under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights is ensured by enabling the family to live together in the home Member State. The outcome of this case follows directly from the regulation on long-term children. The first paragraph of Section 1 of the Regulation states: ‘Children under the age of 18 who applied for asylum by 1 July 2001 at the latest are considered to have a special connection with the Kingdom if they are in Norway... the same applies to parents without a work permit or a daily residence permit for such children.’ It appears from the circular to the regulation that ‘daily care’ means living together by parents and children. In the matter in question, neither father nor mother lived with the children. Therefore, the parents were not included in the circle of persons that would be considered to have a special connection with the kingdom. In addition, the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Regulation states: ‘Residence permits for children in accordance with the first subparagraph may not form the basis for family reunification with parents who have voluntarily left the day-to-day care to others during the three-year period.’; The reason for the provision was that I did not want to reward parents who leave their children without caregivers. I have registered that after all the documents in the case had been reviewed and the mother herself had been heard, there was a unanimous mention that both mother and father’s decision to hide from the Norwegian authorities and thus leave the children without caregivers, happened on a voluntary basis. It is a problem that children are abandoned in Norway because parents and supporters believe that the family as a whole will be allowed to stay in Norway if the children are left alone. Children are thus used to postpone and prevent the implementation of negative decisions. I do not want to contribute to a system where children are used by their parents for their stay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e641	Is it good family policy to separate mother and children? The central party's answer is no. We believe that this case is an example of a practice that takes too little account of the child's best interests. Let me underline: we are some people in a practice that has been set up to prevent parents from leaving the responsibility for their children to others for a period of time, and then later to seek family reunification, but we thought that each case had to be considered separately. I am surprised that the Council of State does not take into account at all that there was a disease inside the picture. All documents clearly state that the mother was ill and needed help to care for the children for a period of time. Does the Council of State think that weight should not be added at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e650	There is an inconsistency when the questioner on the one hand says that it is not good family policy to separate parents and children, and the next sentence says that of course you should not reward parents who choose to leave their children to others. I agree with the last principle, but it means, in practice, for some children, that they can risk being allowed to stay without their parents being allowed to stay. It's a general part of the whole foreign administration. When the question then concerns an individual matter and how UNE has managed the regulation in assessing the disease and other matters, I believe that it belongs within the regulatory framework that politicians have waived to have specific opinions because we have left UNE to make assessments of the facts in each case on the basis of a regulation. I therefore do not want to have any opinion as to whether the decision taken is correct or wrong, or whether the disease relationship with the mother is correct or wrong. I know that this has been thoroughly assessed in connection with the treatment, by a unanimous mention in the UN, which this magnificence has put in place to make such assessments on the basis of the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e657	The regulation on long-term children came after a unanimous decision in Stortinget on the initiative of the SV and the Central Party, and with – it is certainly right to say – opposition from the Council of State. But she followed this up, and she designed a regulation. I'm surprised that she doesn't see that in this particular situation, when it comes to a regulation that she has developed and is to be used temporarily, it doesn't follow that the regulation is practiced according to the intention. In fact, there is also the possibility of taking care of the disease as the regulation is designed. Express emphasis has been placed on the child’s best and reckless judgment. I would like to ask as earnestly as I can, that the Council of State re-check this matter and see if it even thinks that UNE has followed up the regulation it has designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e668	There are some consequences that some wholesale representatives do not want to take away the legislation they have adopted here. Once we have made a regulation, it is not up to me to assess whether UNE has taken the decisions in accordance with that regulation. In that case, it is for the Norwegian judiciary to assess whether the regulation has been complied with. I record that, in the previous supplementary question, the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa expressed the same principle as that contained in the regulation: ‘Residence permits for children in accordance with the first subparagraph may not form the basis for family reunification with parents who have voluntarily left the day-to-day care to others during the three-year period.’; It is not contrary to the Children's Convention to have such a rule. I have to say that I am a little surprised at just that additional question, because it requires me to go into a case-by-case procedure and find out if there have been proper assessments of a particular name that has been mandated by law to follow up the regulations and make the individual assessments. In fact, I am prevented from having opinions on the individual matter and the content of the individual matter. We can discuss the principles. I concluded that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa agreed with the main principle of a previous question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e687	‘Spain is in the process of legislating gay and lesbian marriage rights, with effect from the end of 2005/2006. At the Norwegian Embassy in Madrid, marriage is now possible, but not a partnership. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs take the initiative to ensure that partnership also becomes possible at our embassy in Spain?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e694	Norwegian foreign stations with the right of marriage could also be authorised to register partnerships if two conditions exist: the host country authorities must be able to approve such registration and registration must be legally valid in the host country. The registration of partnerships at a Norwegian foreign station will in practice only be legally valid in the host country if it also has partnership law or marriage law covering two of the same sexes. When such a law is passed in Spain, we will contact the Spanish authorities with a view to empowering our embassy in Madrid to make partnership registrations. I am aware that a legislative proposal is currently under consideration at the Spanish Congress, but it is currently not clear when it can be adopted. I can also add, for the sake of completeness, that in the light of the fact that Belgium now has legislation that allows this to happen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to authorize the Embassy in Brussels to register partnerships. However, in accordance with the assumptions made by the Belgian authorities, the embassy will only register partnerships between Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e707	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Is it possible for the Council of State to be a little more specific with regard to Belgium, and also with regard to Spain, about how long a process might take? If, before the summer, the Spanish Congress adopts the law that it now seems to adopt, it will, for example, adopt the law. is it possible to have a right of partnership in place in Madrid from the date of possible entry into force of the Spanish law, i.e. from New Year 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e714	The decisive thing about time is when Spanish legislation will be in place. If it is then possible to do it immediately at the same time or immediately afterwards, I dare not say on the standing foot, but I will not believe there will be any great difference in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e719	Would Siri Hall Arnøy like additional questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e722	No, no, no. It was a satisfactory answer, so I think I can finish there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e727	Then everyone is satisfied with it. Question 3 will be answered in response to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e735	‘Sick, elderly and infirm are severely affected following the introduction of a new computer system by the aid centres in several sample sizes. For example, more disabled people must: now wait several months for wheelchair repair. Time is spent on application procedures and even after a positive decision there is a long and uncertain waiting time for delivery. What will the Council of State do, both in the short and long term, to ensure rapid and good service for disabled persons who need equipment from the assistance centres?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e742	In the autumn of 2004, the Riksstrøgdeverket has introduced a new computer system in eight of its auxiliary centres. The aim of the new system is to improve access to information on lending, re-use and the acquisition of facilities by help centres. This will, in the long term, include: contribute to the speedy delivery of aids to users. In the introduction of new computer systems, experience shows that production can often be slightly lower during a start-up period. A new system will generate new ways of working, and there will often be a need to change internal procedures and organisation. In addition, other entry problems may arise. Unfortunately, this has been the case with some of the aid centres. The new system is a modern standard storage and logistics system. At the same time, it is more demanding because it requires registration for much more conditions than before. In order to address the entry problems, the Rikstrygdeverket has now decided to reduce the scope of the registrations somewhat. Similarly, the Rikstrøgdeverket has a close dialogue with the centres that have implemented the solution, in order to identify and resolve any problems as quickly as possible. Due to these problems, the introduction of the new computer system in the remaining assistance centres has been postponed. From the centres that have put the system into service, a gradual improvement in delivery times is now reported. The standards adopted for delivery time are still in place and priority should continue to be given to particularly vulnerable groups. The Rikstrøgdewerk evaluates the system on an ongoing basis and will not introduce it into any of the aid centres until it is found to be working properly. I'm assuming that it's going to happen relatively quickly, so that we can put in place a modern system that, in the long run, can also help to give users a much better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e755	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the implementation of this computer system is closely followed. I also realize that when a test out a new system, it takes some time before it can be in place. But you can't let that affect people with disabilities who, for their daily work, are totally dependent on aids. It is then a question of maybe not putting extra resources into the period, so that one can have parallel systems until the computer system functions. The question is whether the Council of State is prepared to deploy additional resources, possibly parallel systems, so that it can function.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e762	I fully agree with the representative Britt Hildeng that it is not good when, during a transitional period, a system improvement like this affects users in the sense that there will be longer processing times and delivery times. It has been taken seriously by the Swedish Government, and I am confident that they are deploying the resources and measures necessary to ensure that vulnerable groups are not adversely affected by this. What I have been reported by the Rikstrøgdeverket is so far satisfactory, but I want to follow along and make sure that they still have this under follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e767	Several people now claim that the selected computer program is unsuitable for the purpose it is supposed to serve. It is suggested that once again, perhaps, there is a real scandal about the introduction of new computer programs. It is claimed that the programme is more suitable for the stock management of goods than for the smooth operation of a computer application in dealing with crises linked to the tasks of assistance centres. I would like to have the Council of State's assessment of such claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e772	I think one should be careful to use such strong words, even if a meeting is critical of the outcome of changes in a public service offer. As I said, it is not good when you see this type of rash. The new system is a modern standard system for storage and logistics. I believe that the Rikstrøgdeverket, on the basis of the problems that have been revealed, has satisfactorily addressed this issue. So they've postponed the introduction of this new system into the remaining emergency centres until you're sure it's working properly. The focus you also have on gradually improving delivery times, makes me think you have control of this situation. But, as I said, I would like to follow up on the fact that this is also a correct answer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e783	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘The size has stimulated increased niche production through the value creation programme in agriculture. Now it was claimed that niche companies such as Norwegian Wild Product AS is being pushed out of the market because the big chains are pushing them out by their economic strength. Will the State Council propose regulatory changes to ensure acceptable access to the market for niche producers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e792	As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I would like to stress the need for a greater diversity of food products in Norwegian grocery stores. In the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we support a wide range of initiatives and projects to facilitate the success of several small food producers in the market in general and in the retail sector in particular. In order to further strengthen our work, our new industrial development strategy has increased market power and sales access for small and medium-sized food producers. Local food and Norwegian food specialities must be available to consumers in order to increase consumption and thus local value creation. This requires the food to be found at the shops. In our commitment to the Value Creation Programme for Food Production, we have a good dialogue with the chains. Dialogue and cooperation are important for success. Both Coop, the Norway Group and Ica have signaled that they want to bet on local food. We're actively following this up. The Value Creation Programme for Food Production also establishes networks that offer training to producers on how the groceries market works and on working methods that can give a position in the market. In addition, the food programme establishes different projects aimed at bringing more Norwegian food specialities and local food into the food market. As an example, I can mention the cooperation project between Norway’s SPAR shops and Matforsk. The project focuses on market access for food specialities in SPAR, increased knowledge of safe production, marketing, design, distribution, etc. However, it is also necessary to take inwards that the shops cannot take in all goods and at all costs. The goods must be of interest to the consumer to purchase, the quality must be good, the manufacturers must deliver the correct volume at the agreed time and give reasonable performance to the shops. Not all small food manufacturers are able to meet the requirements and expectations of the shops. They should look after other markets for their products, e.g. special shops, the Bond's market or Internet sales. The latter two market channels have been supported by the food programme and have been favourably received by consumers. It is hardly possible or appropriate to establish a separate regulatory framework which determines which goods and brands the shops and the hotel and restaurant industries should take in at all times. On the other hand, I have great faith and experience in the fact that through dialogue and cooperation with the grocery trade and the hotel and restaurant industry, the authorities can ensure that local food and Norwegian food specialities are made more accessible to consumers and to a much greater extent than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e809	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Let me immediately stress that I did not believe anything about the commotion around TINE when I reported this question two weeks ago! I started with newspaper headlines about the small, but important niche company Norsk Viltprodukt, who says that they are skewed out, among other things. by the hotel market of rich and powerful Orkla, even though Orkla cannot deliver the desired products of Norwegian Viltprodukt. TINE has erred, but I ask: Is this just the top of the iceberg? What will the Council of State do to see the other chains and powerful corporations in the cards? Are we, through the TINE case, actually in the process of taking away the attention from everything else about the chain-lock and all the sloppyness of the small niche producers that is going on in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e818	I think it's important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth in turbulent times, as this is. We're not going back more than a few weeks, so the focus was on the four big chains, and the way the chain was used, and how a negotiator. Then we have now had a few hectic weeks where we have gone down the value chain, on groceries suppliers, where there are hundreds of actors, after all. We have a constant debate about the role of the farmer, where it is over 50,000, and where each one definitely does not have much market power. I think it is important to continue to keep focussing on the role of the chains and the willingness of the chains to do a job in different ways for small producers, but also to have a transparency in the system that makes it possible to fit in. I am absolutely sure that the good thing about all the turbulence and the difficult debate that is currently about this is that it contributes to a certain cleanup. The competition authorities look at the matter, and the chains take the initiative themselves, because they live on their daily reputation, they live by the kindness of consumers and daily visits to their shops. All of this, I think, helps us get better relationships. The fact that we have also got a competitor from a pure-grown producer, a volume supplier of cheap products, I think also helps the other chains think through what they can be good at. I don't think they'll be able to compete for the lowest prices of everything, but they'll be able to be good in other conditions. I think the sum of what's happening, there's something good coming out of it. That's my hope. As far as access to small manufacturers is concerned, I work continuously in contact with the chains. I am already going to have a meeting with the Norway Group, which they have asked for, and I think there will be some good news about how they think and open their shops to the small producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e829	I thank the Council of State again for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State is continuously working on this. I read in a magazine, SAS Braaten's magazine for February 2005, an interview with the head of the cheese producer The Blind Ku, and she says: ‘98 % of the market is dominated by the four major chains. It implies that there are four men who sit and decide what to do at the shops three times a year.» This shows that consumers are not given the opportunity to get acquainted with these products, and how should they know about them? Does not the Council of State feel, in the light of what is now happening, that this calls for stronger governance to ensure both justice against producers and greater diversity in Norwegian grocery stores?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e841	I agree that it calls for stronger governance in the sense that it is about clearer management, and that one must be willing to raise these issues before people. It's not that we can make legal rules that determine what private business operators are going to do, and what they're going to have in their shelves. But we can help to draw attention to this, that the consumer requires different things. The great thing that's happened in the last few days is that we've got attention to consumer power. I myself have said on some occasions that there is too little Latin blood in Norwegian consumers. They have to be better at punching the cucumbers in the cash register when they expect better products in the store. I think the important thing that has happened, among other things, is that consumers are concerned that they have power. They must have the opportunity to go to the store manager or checkout and tell them that they want them and the suppliers, otherwise they will stop shopping there. The only language these store chains really understand is the struggle for customers. So I hope and believe that when all this goes down, we get a situation where there is greater transparency, greater opportunities for small-scale producers and more difficult for those who have power at all stages of the value chain, to abuse that power.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e851	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘Recently, we have seen several cases in which the State's agricultural management rejects solutions for co-operation where a derogation from negotiated agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the agricultural organisations is required. An overall food committee, in its 2003 agricultural report, said that these limits had to be applied in a slightly flexible manner in the context of local conditions. In many cases, local authorities have recommended derogations. Why is this not being practised to a greater extent?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e860	One of the conditions for obtaining the calculated quota for the co-farming of milk production is that the distance between the agricultural properties included in the co-farming and the centre of operation of the co-farming shall not exceed 12 km measured along the road. This means, in practice, that there may be up to 24 km between members of the same cooperative, given that the operating centre is in the middle of them. This provision is laid down in the Agreement on Agriculture for 2004-2005 following negotiations with the Norwegian Confederation of Bonds and Small Farmers. I believe that all milk producers should have the same opportunities to establish co-operation, whether they are located in an area with a high density of milk producers or not. However, it is evident that there are challenges related to achieving this in practice at the current distance limit for cooperatives. The whole point of having a distance limit is that it has to be practised as a general rule. This implies that the management assesses the reasonableness of the individual case. In line with the leadership of the Food and Agriculture Committee in the examination of the agricultural situation in 2003, this will include, inter alia: assessed whether the area has a low density of milk producers. An overall assessment of each application also focuses on the extent of previous cooperation between the parties. The distance requirement may include, inter alia: are seen in the context of previous requirements for the members of the cooperative to be active in the operation. The distance should therefore not be too long for reasons of rationality, animal welfare, transport, etc. In the last year's agricultural settlement, it was agreed to remove the requirement for the activity of members of joint farms in milk production. A working group between the parties to the agricultural settlement has recently concluded that the requirement is not being reestablished. In addition, the provisions for joint ventures will be subject to an ongoing assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e873	I thank you for your answer. We see that the number of co-operatives has increased dramatically. Many are very satisfied, and especially those users who are too small to defend large investments. In addition, we see that there are many uses that go out of food production, and that is why we cannot ignore the fact that many find a professional community to go into business together. However, when the economic carrots to make co-operatives are being phased out, it is important for me that we have to deal with the boundaries so that people understand them. I see quite clearly that what the Council of State says in relation to rational operation, animal welfare and transport is a challenge, but it will be a problem for us if those boundaries are perceived so unreasonable that people from both industry and government don't understand why we have the boundaries. I have to add that I think it is good that we have the limits, so I don't want them to wind up, but they have to be practiced with a little more flexibility than what I feel some newspaper headlines have given the impression of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e882	The main view of the government – which has also emerged from the agricultural negotiations that have taken place between this government and the parties to the agricultural agreement – is that we can survive without these limits. We have also proposed that, and then they have been negotiated again. The new issue now is whether there should be an activity obligation, or whether you can enter into a joint venture and not have an activity, or possibly have a rare activity. Now the parties also agree that there should not be such an activity obligation. How the Government meets this when the government's offers and negotiations are coming forward in spring's agricultural settlement, we will wait until we get there. But I probably want the clear opinion that we should still have a strong pressure in the direction that we should remove the distance limit, possibly expanding it. When Norwegian farmers can live by sitting in the car for a few minutes longer, there should be no problem for the Government and Stortinget members to live with that Norwegian farmers choose to sit longer in the car on their way to their poultry. That is my basic position – whether it is built within the municipalities, or it is done in other ways. But it will be quite crucial for such negotiations that there is also a clear view on the part of Storting, not least from the biggest opposition party in Storting, about what one might want, because it is obviously putting pressure on the parties if there is a majority for a different solution than what is today's solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e891	I thank you again for the answer. The reason why we are in favour of limits is that there should be rational operation, even if there is no need to contribute to the labour force. There is a lot of transport between the different uses involved in a joint operation, and therefore the distance should not be too long, because it has something to do with animal welfare. I put my trust in the fact that the last thing the Council of State said applies, namely that you have an ongoing assessment of the applications that come in. I'm aware that when 83 pst. consists of two farmers and reaches 12 pst. is composed of three farmers, not so many are composed of more than three or four. So I would have hoped that a slightly flexible solution could be found when there are applications, because, as I said, there are enough challenges in Norwegian agriculture, if we are not going to spend a lot of time and space on someone who feels unfairly treated when they want to cooperate with other farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e900	I basically agree with the goodwill they have with regard to cooperative ventures, but if that's how we want the 12-kilometre limit to be practised even more openly than what we're doing today, I guess we should quickly get a debate on whether we shouldn't be moving at least something at the 12-kilometre limit. I would like to contribute to this happening before we start this year's agricultural negotiations, so that the will of the Storting can be carried out through negotiations. Then I have to say that I meet a lot of people who are in the situation that they are closed by the 12-kilometre limit, even though there are milk producers that are much closer, with whom you could go in collaboration. But this is such a close and personal collaboration that it's all right to cooperate with people you think it's all right to cooperate with. There's often the 12-kilometre limit, which is annoying to many, coming in. I have a great deal of understanding for that. It's all right to be a good friend to the one you're going to be with every day, and run a big shop with. I hope and believe that we will be able to get more distances, and would like to invite the Workers' Party spokesman for this to put a certain pressure on the parties before we go to the agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e910	I have a question for our Minister of Finance: «The peat mill of the day processes peat and land into gardening and gardening centres with its own resources and imports from Sweden. Raw material imports have crossed the Högen/Kornsjö customs station all day, and the carriers have carried out the customs treatment. The Customs Region of East Norway will now have the peat transport on Swinesund beyond opening hours, but transporters of timber and tile can continue with simplified customs treatment. Will the Council of State help to ensure that the natural product peat is treated in the same way as timber and chips by customs treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e919	Let me first inform you that the Ministry of Finance has had contact with the Directorate of Customs and Fees on this matter prior to today's Question Time. The doughnut mill wants to pass the customs in Högen except for normal opening hours. Högen is a Swedish customs office which also performs service for Norwegian account, according to the border customs cooperation agreement with Sweden. Since 1986, the peat mill of Degen has had an oral agreement with Högen on permission to pass outside the opening hours. After the Swedish and Norwegian customs authorities had a local review of the tasks at Högen customs station, Degens Torvstrøkfabrik was asked to apply for a written transport permit. However, the Customs Region of East Norway did not find it possible to grant the application. The matter has been brought before the Court of Justice and is under preparation for transmission to the Directorate of Customs and Fees. As long as the matter is under administrative review, I can hardly comment on the assessments that have been made. The Torvstrøkfabrik of Deggen must therefore await the outcome of the complaints by the Directorate-General for Customs and Fees. However, on a general basis, I can state that the Customs and Tax Directorate is working to ensure that all actors importing and exporting goods to the country are treated equally as long as they meet the requirements laid down in the applicable legislation and procedures. This applies irrespective of the type of product. The Directorate for Customs and Charges has further informed that a review of legislation and procedures for the preparation of traffic permits will be carried out. New guidelines will be developed and distributed by the Directorate during the first half of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e934	I thank the Council of State for the answer and interpret it as positive. When this is being treated, I understand that he cannot intervene in the process. But based on his general assessments in this area, his view of a more open Europe, and that special barriers for some industries or industries in Norway may not be of the good, I have chosen to interpret him positively and will not raise any further questions in this area now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e941	I don't think I need any additional answers either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e949	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: «During treatment of Ot.prp. No 102 on temporary unpaid pay only affected the relationship with the financial industry. [[2002-2003]] In its reply dated 19 May 2004, on a letter from me, the Council of State says that the Ministry of Finance will assess changes in the law on occupational retirement provision in this context. Insurance corporations do not now pay unearned pensions or similar insurance to persons with temporary benefits. The benefits may be provided for up to 3 x 4 years. Have the Councils assessed these matters, and what has been done, if any?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e958	I pointed out that a working group on 2 February this year submitted a report discussing some issues related to the law on occupational retirement provision and pension contributions. The Working Party was set up by the Ministry of Finance and the working party report was sent to the hearing on 3 February, with a three-month consultation period. The report and the consultation notes will then be considered in the ministry in the usual way. Any proposed legislative changes will be promoted in the edifice proposal. One of the issues addressed in the report is the introduction of temporary disability benefit and the effects on disability pension under the Entrepreneurship Pension Act. The Working Party points out that in a letter dated 16 November last year to the Ministry, the Credit Authority has assessed this issue. In the letter, the credit supervision states that the introduction of temporary unpaid retirement should not have anything to say about the right to receive disability pension from such a collective pension scheme. In particular, in the light of the assessments of the credit supervision, the Working Party has taken the view that there is no need to amend the law on occupational retirement provision in this context. For the sake of order, I would like to mention that the credit supervision in the above letter also mentions the introduction of temporary unpaid pay and the effects on some other insurance contracts. This applies to municipal pension schemes, individual interest insurance, individual capital insurance and non-life insurance enterprises. The credit supervision states that the introduction of fixed-term unpaid pay does not appear to raise specific problems in relation to the payment of unfinished benefits from such contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e967	Obviously, then, the Credit Authority did not receive the letters and enquiries that included: I have received, because what has just been shown is that because of conceptual changes and changes that have been made, benefits are not actually paid. We are then talking about people who have entered into an insurance contract at an earlier date, several years before this change on temporary unpaid pay was introduced. They are now in an unfortunate situation. But my question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State now at least review and assess up against this based on the feedback that I have received, at least, that it is a problem, and not as the Credit Authority claims, that it is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e974	Yes, it would have been an advantage if the enquiries had been forwarded to the Credit Authority and the Ministry or as part of the hearing, because neither the Credit Authority nor the Ministry had received any enquiries on the matter. So we haven't registered any problem, and then it's very difficult to do anything about the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e979	No further follow-up is necessary. I'll make sure the letters come to the Council of State in her.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e987	The question is as follows: ‘The majority of the population removed from the 2005 budget the specific State resources for decentralised higher education in, among others. the higher education institutions of More and Romesdal. It is soon approaching student admission for the next year of studies, and the decentralised higher education offer in Kristiansund is in extreme danger. What will the Council of State do to ensure the provision of higher education in Kristiansund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e996	Since 1999, specific funding has been allocated to higher education institutions to cover additional costs of providing decentralised education and distance learning. These funds were reduced by 20 million in the treatment of the State budget in Stortinget. kr in 2005, among others because the performance component of the new funding system provides incentives for higher education to place education on a decentralised basis. Higher education institutions such as: failure of the recruitment basis at the place of usual study could thus increase the number of study credits and thus the funding by providing decentralised services. In addition, since 1991, the Volda, Ålesund and Molde colleges have been allocated funds to 90 places of study for decentralised studies in Kristiansund, as well as specific funds for renting housing. In addition, a one-off grant was granted in 2001 for moving, equipment and furniture. These funds are no longer earmarked but continue as part of the basic funding of the new funding system, and the higher education institutions therefore have financial preconditions for maintaining a decentralised study offer in Kristiansund, if they so wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1003	That was a little bit of a surprising answer. In fact, implementing a decentralised approach today with the funding mechanism to which the Council of State itself referred would not be able to do without having the specific state resources allocated to decentralised higher education because it is more expensive to operate a decentralised offer than to have it centralised in higher education. It shows the accounting figures that we've seen for the colleges in More and Romesdal. I guess that's also a fact for the decentralised offers in the country, too. It is strange, then, that the majority position and decision taken by the Stortinget in December mean that for some schools in the three northernmost counties, a continuation of earmarked grants should continue, whereas this should not be necessary for Kristiansund. I have to ask a little more precisely then: how does the Council of State see that the universities of More and Romesdal will be able to finance a study offer in Kristiansund for which no money has been allocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1012	I meant that I responded to this. There's two things we're talking about here. Firstly, special funding has been allocated to universities in Volda, Ålesund and Molde since 1991 for 90 study places. Special funds have also been provided for rent and a one-off grant for moving, equipment, furniture, etc. Since 1991, we have received a completely new funding system for universities and higher education institutions, which is approximately 60 pst. is so-called basic funding and is based on historical conditions. Other funding is linked to the quality of research and to the award of credits. These funds, which then came in 1991, are now included in the basic financing and are thus continued in the new system. Then there has been a cut in something that has been awarded since 1999 in addition to these 90 places of study. Here, there was a 20-million reduction. kr in a total item for decentralised education services. However, I believe that the new funding system will help to compensate for this funding as well, as there is a result component of the new funding system that goes on the score line. For example: If you have a failure in your application for an ordinary place of study, you can set up a decentralised study offer and get funding for your study credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1021	I do not think this is going to last at all. I have pointed out in my comment to the answer that running decentralised education usually costs something more than if you have an offer collected one place. With regard to the offer I address in particular, the offer in Kristiansund, the story is that it has taken a long time and has been an interaction between local policy actors and national policy actors and businesses to establish this offer, among others. related to the oil environment in Kristiansund, which is now one of the country’s heaviest. It is important to take care of the education we now have in oil-related activities, which are added to Kristiansund, and which are unique, alongside the health and education services we have. I'm very concerned if it's actually such that we in Kristiansund should not be able to continue the same scheme that one has justified is good for the northernmost states, where one has chosen to keep the offer for the higher education institutions to be a regional developer in an interaction with business. This I think the Council of State has to go into and look at, because it can't be that there's going to be a difference between one county and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1028	There are differences. It's absolutely right that there's been a lot of local involvement. Among other things, very many politicians in my own party have engaged in this. As a result, since 1991 there has been a very special system linked to the universities of Volda, Ålesund and Molde in the case of a decentralised offer in Kristiansund. A few years ago, a earmarked allocation was made, but the money continues in the new funding system in that part of the funding that is the basic allocation. And then there's been another arrangement on top, which has benefited everyone. It was, therefore, somewhat reduced in the context of the 2005 budget in this respect, for budgetary reasons. But as I say, I believe that the new funding system facilitates the collection of corresponding funding, because you simply get funded for credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1041	The question is as follows: «School violence is an increasing problem. At a school in Bergen recently, a student attacked a fellow student and a teacher with an iron rod, and both of these were injured. From an expert on behavioral disorders, it is claimed that the best thing for students with severe behavioural problems is to go to ordinary school. But a number of school teachers are threatening to report sick if the student gets back to school. The principal of the school says he understands the teachers' reaction. What is the Government’s strategy to avoid violence problems related to pupils with behavioural problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1050	The school environment is usually good in Norway. But we also have disciplinary problems, violence, bullying and general unrest in Norwegian school. This affects the working environment and performance of pupils and teachers alike. Fortunately, episodes of gross violence are not common in Norwegian school. However, when abusing violence occurs, the school and auxiliaries must intervene with all available instruments. Everyone who works at school is entitled to a safe and healthy working and learning environment. Work against violence and other problem behaviour must be both preventive and reactive: prevention must be part of a long-term and systematic work involving the entire school. Systematic effort benefits, as we do, among other things. have seen work against bullying, but still major challenges remain. The implementation of the Knowledge promise will require the physical and psychosocial working and learning environment of all schools. The prevention and reduction of behavioural problems in schools will be an important theme in the development of skills among teachers and school leaders. Major violence episodes, to which the Blackevik representative refers, require the intervention of the entire aid system, including police, child protection, school and other partners. If necessary, violence must be reported as a crime and must be a responsibility for the management of the school. The question refers to the opinion of problem behaviour experts that it is best for students with behavioural disabilities to attend ordinary school. This must always be balanced with the safety and security needs of the other students. The school shall not accept violence or problem behaviour that threatens or could harm or hinder the learning work of the students. This results directly from the new legal paragraph of the Education Act on the school environment of students. In most cases, better adapted training will enable pupils with behavioural problems to attend local school. In some cases, consideration by other students indicates that this is not appropriate, because the situation affects their safety and learning. Then the Training Act gives access to moving one student to another school. In order to enable schools to meet such challenges, I have developed guidance material on the school's work on pupils with major behavioural problems. The guide underlines the responsibilities of municipalities and schools, their capacity for action and the measures they have to take in relation to behavioural problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1065	Thank you for your answer! I am pleased that, unlike the professor of pedagogics who has commented on the matter, the Council of State strongly emphasises the importance of all the other students and of the employees, i.e. the teachers at school, and that, of course, there is also a need to consider solutions in such cases, to do more than just take into account the outgoing student. But the part of the answer that refers to a shift of the problem, I'm not satisfied with. It means, in short, moving the problem of one untrained student to another school, to another learning environment, and we are in no way sure that the receiving school, the receiving students and the receiving teachers are able to deal with pupils with major behavioural problems in a better way than the school from which the student comes. Here, there needs to be another strategy to provide better opportunities for those students who have major behavioural problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1072	I'd like to elaborate on this a little bit more. I agree with the representative Blackevik that just moving a student, especially if you do it blindly, is no guarantee of a solution. I think that moving to another school, if that transfer is done in a good way, in some cases can be positive, because it's the learning environment itself and the situation that promotes that behavior. But I want to add that many schools and municipalities also have some alternative solutions: what is often referred to as ‘alternative schools’, of which we have at least a hundred, I think, in Norway. Some have one or two in a municipality, some have it in connection with a concrete school, some may even have it in the area of school. I've visited some of these schools myself. Of course, their quality also varies, but the best is often a very good option for some students for a period of time. It could be hours or days a week, or over a few months, or maybe one year. I would like to stress that in these alternative schools there are not only 'crimes', to use such an expression in quotation marks, but also students who need to come by themselves for completely different reasons. I often think it's a good offer that the schools can have as a supplement to the ordinary. They're not special schools in the old-fashioned sense, but that's what you call an alternative school. We've seen a lot of examples of them, you're on school ships, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1079	‘Alternative schools’ is the new term for ‘special schools’, which was the old term Let's see. I'm glad we have a somewhat similar position in this respect. I'd like to quote what the headmaster of the Groetveit School says about the situation he's in. Because he doesn't agree that all students should be in normal school: ‘My impression is that the pupils in question are doing better in the behavioural schools than in normal schools.’ In order to strengthen the offer in the case of behavioural schools — or special schools or alternative schools, we can quickly find a name we can be satisfied with — will the Council of State and the Department look at state participation to strengthen this offer? It is clear that here we are dealing with some of the serious problems associated with Norwegian school, where we have troubles, ranging from the relatively innocent unrest to the violent epidemics associated with students with behavioral problems. Here, more than strategy plans are needed, there is also a need for concrete action and assistance for individual school owners and municipalities. Will the Council of State also look at State involvement in the establishment of such schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1091	I'm a hot follower of the inclusive school. I'm not a supporter of going back to the old special schools, I'm not a supporter of measures that contribute to lasting segregation. But I have experienced these alternative schools, which are often a temporary offer to a variety of students, I would say, which, for various reasons, are not compatible with the others and destroy both for themselves and others in the ordinary school situation. Many of the alternative offers seem to work very positively. We have contributed to a certain spread of experience around these schools. I can't say on the stand what we could do more than what we do to spread knowledge about that kind of action, but I'd like to go back and look at it, because even I think there are some very good examples. And actually, if you connect it to the local school, the local municipality, you can basically just view it as an expanded way of getting adapted training, because a student needs an hour or a day or a few months from the normal school situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1099	‘Reading and writing in a satisfactory way is very important in our information and competence society. The term read and write problems are symptoms, but at the same time they are used as a term without saying anything about the cause of the difficulties. Expert judgement and proper diagnosis are particularly important for dyslexics, as it triggers the necessary rights, for example, in tests and examinations. What can the Council of State do to ensure that the diagnosis of dyslexia is used even if it costs money?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1106	After a little media debate on this – it was probably last week – I am pleased that I have received this question. It is in the nature of the matter that as a State Council, I have no direct opportunity to influence the use of a particular diagnosis. However, I am responsible for the fact that we have a system that helps students to receive proper training in accordance with their rights. Students who do not have or can not benefit satisfactorily from the regular training offer are entitled to special education. To the extent that the school manages to strengthen ordinary education so that the student receives sufficient dividends according to the normal objectives of the curriculum, there is no right to special education. Before any decision on special education is taken, expert judgement shall be required. In certain contexts, a diagnosis may be included in such expert judgement. However, it is important to stress that the student’s rights are not dependent on a specific diagnosis. Furthermore, the possibility of having adapted arrangements for the completion of the take-off test does not depend on diagnosis, if the student otherwise needs specific adaptation in the light of expert judgement. The question suggests that there is a link between the economy and the use of diagnosis. I have no reason to say that there is such a connection, but if something like this was to be revealed through supervision, of course, it has to be turned down. Something else is that there may be a technical disagreement about the use of the diagnosis of dyslexia. Every five elementary school students have less reading skills than we would like. Up to 5 pst. students may be said to have specific read and write difficulties. Many of these students may have rights under the Law on Social Security, as well as under the Training Act, and may thus receive support from the Swedish National Agency for Social Security, among others. PC. It is important that there is good inter-disciplinary and inter-territorial cooperation at local level to ensure that students are offered the best possible range of services. The government is concerned with the reading skills of Norwegian children. In this connection, we have, among other things: submitted the «Gi room for reading» scheme, a read-only and read-awareness stimulation strategy. The plan envisages a five-year effort for, among others: prevention of reading difficulties. One hundred million. kr will be allocated over the period to implement the strategy. In St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, Culture for learning, a number of actions are foreseen to adapt students to training and, in this context, skills development is central. Both school owners, school leaders, teachers and PP services are important target groups for these interventions. Through the national reading and writing tests, each school receives and learns more knowledge about the students’ benefits of the training. One of the main objectives of the tests is to provide a basis for better adapted training. Several years have also seen the availability of screening tests for different steps developed to detect read difficulties as early as possible. In addition, efforts are being made to develop more systematic and targeted supervision, including: to ensure the rights of students. At the heart of the implementation of the Knowledge Promise is the development of new, simpler curricula with objectives for students’ competence at different stages. This could help to facilitate the capture of students who do not seem to be able to achieve the objectives satisfactorily. The syllabus will also place great emphasis on basic reading and writing skills. Teacher training has been strengthened from 2003 in basic literacy, writing and mathematics training as a compulsory part of the framework plan. Overall, I believe that the measures I have mentioned here are a good basis for now meeting the challenges of reading and writing difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1134	Yes, a lot has happened when it comes to reading and writing problems, and I am very grateful that very much has now come into place, «after a hundred years», I use to say, because it has been so long since the diagnosis of dyslexia became known. However, I have received many feedback that we are still struggling with the correct diagnosis. Because if you just call it specific reading and writing difficulties or just reading/writing difficulties, it is not always that the training takes place. That's the piece that I think is very important. A misdiagnosis here is as dangerous as a misdiagnosis in medicine, because it can also cost lives. Therefore, it is very important that a user diagnoses dyslexia where it is the right one after expert judgement. Then I've also received some messages that there's starting to be a little conflict of competence, or what one should call it, between special educators and logo-pedgers, and I'm asking the Council of State to be aware of that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1143	I am aware that there may be a professional disagreement about and professionally disputed to what extent one deserves one or the other diagnosis. Of course, we have to follow up on that with interest, but it is not so easy to make ourselves politicians judges of the kind of professional discussions. The second theme that the questioner has addressed here, namely whether any dyslexia diagnosis is linked to the economy, is, of course, a completely different issue. There, of course, I want the supervisory authority to keep an active watch, so that it does not take place, because there should be no justification, and there can be no justification, for not making the right diagnosis. I take into account the considerations of professional disagreement and I'm going to keep an eye on it, but it's a little difficult for politicians to make themselves judges over that kind of judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1152	I'd like to get into national trials so far. I have received messages from both the parents and the supervisory authorities, saying this, that some schools have told me that they do not want students to come and participate in national tests, and that applies primarily to those with dyslexia. For me, it's going to be completely wrong. I was well aware when we discussed national tests, that it was to get the school better for everyone, and then it's an important piece to get the chance to be on national tests and see what you can do. However, it is also necessary to make it possible for everyone to participate in the national tests, with the tools needed to show how competent they are in many areas. The test instructions are then one of the things, as well as the use of aids, including assistants and PCs, and the framework conditions for carrying out the test.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1159	The national tests – although we have used our best professional environments, many of which are also highly recognised internationally – could be under development. This is a new crime work both nationally and internationally. There are skill tests, where the purpose is really to discover more in detail where students need help to strengthen their skills in key areas. This is why it is essential that all students be involved. The rules are such that otherwise there must be a decision on special education and, in addition, it must be clear that the student has no benefit and enjoys the national test. If these conditions are present, one can escape unless the superiors feel that the student should be involved. I cannot prove that this has happened, but I have also seen the signals through the press. I really think that's doing a child service for the students, because this should be a tool to help the vast majority of students who don't manage to acquire adequate reading and writing skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1169	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A short time ago, the Minister of Health and Health received 25 000 signatures requiring the maintenance of the activity in its entirety at Ski Hospital. The Follo population, which accounts for well over 100,000 people in an ever-growing region, has been promised a new hospital in the past. They have not received that, and the local hospital they have is stepped down. The councils stated that he believed ‘that over time a local hospital function would develop’. What is in this statement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1178	On the initiative of Stortinget, I put forward in the 2005 State Budget a proposal for a new strategy for local hospitals. This was widely endorsed by the Stortinget – also by the representatives of the Workers' Party. This strategy suggests that local hospitals should focus more on the needs of the large disease groups and on the needs of those with low capacity services today, such as: sick elderly and mentally ill, to name two groups. If we are to be able to upgrade the services of these groups, we need to be willing to convert the activity of our hospitals, and we need to focus on comprehensive treatment chains between primary and specialist health services. Functional distribution between hospitals makes it possible to improve the quality of services by increasing the patient base and establishing more advanced treatment, especially in surgical disciplines. In addition, it contributes to the release of resources to build up the services that strongly need this. A local hospital investment in a comprehensive scheme for specialist health services does not mean that all established structures should be maintained in detail. Flexibility must be accepted in the choice of solutions, including: for which tasks are added to the individual local hospital and conversions must be accepted. At least it's not convenient, as far as I know and can see, that some of our local hospitals are actually being laid down, but some will have a possible different content in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1187	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it is not just rationality and efficiency that should, to this extent, govern precisely the part of social functions that health care is. But the changes that have to be made, and the functional distribution that needs to be appropriately implemented, I understand. When we were talking about a new hospital in Follo, it was very clear that this was a brilliant project. It was professionally medically very good, it was economically very reasonable, and it was organisationally a very wise way to do it. So now this is a large and growing region in Norway, with nearly 120 000 people, and people's security is also part of the overall picture here – not just efficiency, not just rationality. Interaction between primary health services and hospital services has been identified as very important. Does the Council of State consider that there is something that is well taken care of, as the model is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1196	The last thing the representative here picks up, related to interaction with the first line service, i.e. municipal health services are crucial for large sections of the population, which are often in a situation where, after being expelled from the specialist health service, they may not really be good enough to either come home to themselves or to an institution. This means that we need rehabilitation sites, especially for some of our older people, closer to home than what has been the case until now. It'll be one of the functions, I think, to very many of our local hospitals in the future, and it's especially topical on Ski. Ski hospitals are going to pass. It's completely out of the question to phase out Ski Hospital. But it's also irrelevant to say that all the services we have in all of our hospitals, it makes sense to have in the future as well. I just want to mention the survival rates that we have on some of our diseases, which makes us specialise. It has little to do with rationality. It has much more to do with providing quality services.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1201	Thank you again for your answer. I have to say that I have been more reassured by hearing the Council of State than by hearing some of the health officials at the moment. I'm not going to use the Minister of Agriculture and Food as a witness of truth in the health care of society, but earlier today the Minister of Agriculture and Food said that he wanted a somewhat more Latin temperament of consumers. He even recommended hitting the cucumber in the cash register when you were not satisfied. The Follo population is a very sensible and almost benign population. But this about the hospital service has taken us seriously. We're not very Latin in our life in Follo. But we can be if the need is there. Now, it is not natural laws that govern the development of the health system, but the will and ability to meet people's needs. Therefore again – now I think the Council of State has answered it very clearly, but to get it quite clear: Will Ski Hospital be maintained in its present form and further developed? I am aware that the Council of State can then say that some adjustments can happen. But will that essentially be the situation ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1214	The last one I can answer very quickly. Ski hospitals will exist, with a content that is well adapted to the fact that there are 100 000–120 000 people in the area that is soaking up it and with the offers that it is rational to place there. Nor should we forget the fact that there are not many ‘coffee’s’ from Ski to the capital area, where we have the specialised services. When we look at the distances you have to travel somewhere else in this country, I don't think you need Latin temperament or to beat neither cucumbers nor other items in the cashier. With regard to the degree of prudence in the Follo area, I don't think it's very different than it is in many other places in Norway. For an intelligent southern landing, it doesn't seem exactly necessarily that it's not possible to become even more mindful. But at least I can say that what we add up to for our local hospitals is a model that is better adapted to our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1221	Then we hope that it will not be appropriate to install cash registers in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1227	I'm going to have to design such a cash register, I think. My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘There has been a great deal of focus on the so-called ‘bird virus’ and the possibility that a dangerous development of the virus may affect Norway’s population with a great deal of weight. During the treatment of St.prp. [[2003-2004]] No 43 Is it, with the recent development of the virus in other parts of the world and the information currently available, that the Council of State considers the situation to be under control?’ Could I be allowed to ask the Minister of Health to raise my voice a little? My hearing isn't as good as it once was.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1240	The bird flu has been going on in Southeast Asia in the last year. It's a bird disease that rarely affects people. Human infection has not been conclusively detected, but if this occurs, a pandemic situation may arise. Since 2002, Norway has had a national contingency plan for pandemic influenza. A pandemic committee has been appointed by the Directorate-General for Social and Health and the National Institute for Public Health as Secretariat. Norway is in front of the other countries in terms of preparedness. Vaccine will be the best preventative measure in a flu pandemic. It is assumed that it will take at least three to six months after the first human outbreak before an active vaccine can be available. Therefore, in the first phase of a possible pandemic, antiviral medicines that can be used for both treatment and prevention must be used. In spring 2004, Stortinget granted 29 million. kr for measures against influenza pandemic: Twenty-six million. kr to a stand-by warehouse of 200000 cures of antiviral medicines, such as Tamiflu.3 million. kr to the annual premium for a guarantee for the supply of 2 million doses of influenza vaccineThe Government extended in the autumn of 2004 the guarantee of supply of vaccine to the whole population and decided that the allocation of health and social protection in the State budget for 2005 may be exceeded by up to 4,35 million. kr. The National Institute for Public Health has concluded, on behalf of the State, such a supply guarantee agreement for vaccines. The national knowledge centre has investigated the use of the medicinal product Tamiflu in a pandemic influenza and concludes in its report in January 2005 that national preparedness should be based on the pre-storage of that medicinal product. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health now assesses this investigation, and the Department awaits advice from the Directorate on an extension of the Tamiflu stock and its size. The Ministry, of course, follows the situation closely and will continuously assess the need for further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1263	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am pleased with. I have registered that Australia and France have deliberately purchased influenza medicine covering 30 pst. of the population, while in Norway we have only 200,000 doses in stock, which barely covers 5 pst. by the population. In this context, I find it directly irresponsible that public authorities, such as the State Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate, go out and warn doctors against prescribing the vaccine to private individuals and indirectly criticise those of our professional experts, such as the Gunnar Hasle, who recommend people to prevent the possible epidemic by purchasing vaccines for themselves and their families. As I see it, it must be an advantage that most Norwegian citizens get this vaccine themselves. It provides significant security and saves society from large sums of money. Does the Health Minister and the Health Directorate share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1274	First of all, I must say that it is impossible for a Council of State or a Government or the Norwegian State as such to put aside all the technical advice of the bodies we have established, such as the Social and Health Directorate and the National Institute of Public Health, which has the highest competence in the country and which is to advise the Minister of Health in this area. That there's a single doctor who has a different assessment, I just take note, because that can't mean that then we have to do exactly what this doctor says. We have a national pandemic committee that is regularly grouped together. They shall meet again on 28 February. There are people from all over the country, the top experts we have, and they have to bring the best possible advice to the Government on this. All the information I have indicates that we are on the absolute front in the way we handle this on a contingency basis. I have full confidence in what is done, although it is a simple doctor who believes otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1281	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. We belong to two parties that both fight for the freedom of choice of the individual. I don't think it's time for both the directorate and the National Health Institute to interfere and warn people against securing themselves and their families in this area. With only 200,000 doses in stock, we will not, in the near future, cover the priority groups that should be vaccinated in the event of an outbreak of the disease. I therefore conclude that the department must ensure that the number of influenza vaccination doses in stock should be significantly increased and should cover at least 50 pst. by the population. So far, the disease has a mortality of 50 pst. Thus, the avian influenza is a very serious disease comparable to the Black Death. Here it really applies that the precautionary principle is fully followed. New freezing techniques may allow the vaccine to last for decades. Will the Minister of Health ensure that the stockpiles of this type of influenza vaccine are re-evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1288	First of all, a correction: I do not know that any public authority has gone out and warned against the purchase of Tamiflu, but there has not been a recommendation to do so either. It is quite different from suggesting that someone has warned against buying this medicine. The Social and Health Directorate and the National Institute for Public Health are now carrying out a thorough review and assessment of both our contingency plan and our emergency stocks. They have been asked to come to me with a recommendation – it will be given to me in the course of week 10 – on further possible measures. It's also important in such a situation, where newspaper headlines can quickly make us think that you're far inside the Black Death, that we're trying to keep the usual calm, even if there's a risk. But, as I said, I will come to Stortinget as soon as I have a new recommendation, with proposals for new appropriations to the extent that we think it appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1300	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: «On Wednesday 2 February, it began to burn in the 35-foot-high rock «Bremvær» north of the Gimsøya in Lofoten. The two fishermen tried to call the emergency numbers on their cell phone as they were in the liferaft and then the boat burned up. They didn't show up on the GSM network that Telenor has built up because of it. non-coverage. It was therefore just coincidences that saved them. What will the Council of State do to ensure the development of a mobile network that is as secure as the NMT 450 was, and will the Council of State influence Telenor in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1309	Let me first underline that the emergency connection for the fishing fleet is VHF radio, and not the commercial mobile communications networks such as this. NMT and GSM. In the case of GSM networks, NetCom and Telenor have developed their national network. Although both have already developed networks to a much greater extent than they are required under the concessions, the coverage of GSM is constantly being extended. As far as I'm concerned, for the sake of the fishing fleet, Telenor has especially spent $10 million on improving coastal coverage. The company cooperates with, inter alia: Norway’s Raw Fish Teams worked to maximise the painless transition from NMT to GSM along the coast and on the fishing grounds. At the same time, some areas, especially right up to the coast, where there may be something worse or even a lack of coverage. Telenor will, after I have been informed, seek to gradually rectify this coverage in the time to come. Norway’s Raw Fish Teams describe the process of Telenor Mobil as having a good dialogue. The NMT 450 network was closed with effect from 1 January this year. This was an analogue system which, despite good coverage characteristics, had expired both technologically and on the market. It is worth noting, however, that the frequencies previously used for the NMT 450 network were allocated to the company Nordisk Mobilphone last summer. This company has undertaken, through the granted frequency authorisation, to develop a modern mobile digital communications network based on the so-called CDMA technology. By September of this year, the company must have built a network with similar flat coverage within the GSM coverage of the NMT network. This new network will combine very good coverage features and provide opportunities for far more advanced technology in the network than the NMT 450 did. Finally, let me sum up that Norway already has one of Europe’s best GSM coverages despite the fact that we have a very demanding topography and a scattered housing pattern. GSM concessionaires demonstrate social responsibility by building self-coverage far beyond the concession requirements, including providing coastal and fishing coverage. I therefore have full confidence that, in consultation with stakeholders’ organisations, mobile operators will continue to contribute to further improvements to the fishing fleet in the future. In addition, as mentioned, we will be able to have a new and modern mobile communications system in the 450 network with good coverage. Mobile communications will be a valuable and ever better supplement, but it has never been provided that it would replace VHF radio as an emergency connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1330	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On 22 October 2003, I asked the Council of State about the closure of the 450 system. She then pointed out, as she does now, that the GSM system has frequencies shorter than the NMT system, which makes the GSM coverage at sea worse. I would like to point out that the boat «Bremvær» burned 100 meters from land – and, as one said, almost up in the spring. By claiming that the fishermen have VHF, and by saying that it has never been intended that the mobile phone should take over that function, the Council of State approaches an important point. The VHF is located in the wheelhouse. When the wheelhouse burns, as it did on ‘Brems’, or when it is under water, it is not a good idea to stay at the VHF. It would be nice if the fishermen had a mobile network where they could call for help, as they could with the 450 system. Instead, they have got a system that is actually impossible to use, even if the boat is in the rocks. Does the Council of State agree that such a system is in no way an acceptable solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1339	As I pointed out in my answer, there is now a network under development at the 450-frequency that will be able to replace the function that the NMT 450 had. Therefore, those who do not have coverage with the GSM network per. Today, we're going to be able to get coverage with the 450 network, something like that in the past. In this way, the 450 frequency could contribute to greater security for those who travel along the coast. But I want to repeat that it has never been intended that the mobile network should be an emergency communication solution. We're lucky to have this opportunity, and I want to develop this further. That's what we've done through the telecommunications policy that's now letting others out and we're getting this network built up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1344	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On 22 October 2003, the Council of State said that we would eventually have a network equivalent to the 450 system at the time, which is now closed. That's what she says today. From 1 January 2005, land and sea areas in Lofoten/Westerålen will have received a top-notch modern mobile network, said Telenor Director Bjørn Amundsen on 19 October 2003. All this was supposed to mean great GSM improvements for the users under the loot fishing, from Senja in the north to the Røstbanken in the south. Now she goes back to it. She has never promised that GSM coverage would replace NMT in all areas where one had previously covered is the tone today. A large-scale expansion, it was also said, from the coast of Northland and Troms, from Andøya and Senja in the north to Røstbanken in the south: base station on Holandshamn, new transmitter on Skrovavjellet, mobile GSM-wagon in connection with Lofast, new transmitter in Stamsund, new transmitter on the west side of Vestvågøy, new transmitters on Myrland in Flakstad, new transmitters around Nappstraumen, new transmitters on Værøøjellet, better transmitters in Hadsel, and new transmitters in Bø and Øksnes. Why can these systems not be used in the rocks north and east of Stamsund? What has been done to ensure that these promises are implemented? I asked about this in October 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1357	I would like to stress that I have not gone back on any of the things I have said, and there is no reason for that either. Because we're so lucky that in addition to the fact that there's now a lot of better coverage on the GSM network, the 450 network that Bastesen's representative says he's missing along the coast is now being built. Then my message is that this is being expanded. So now it's up to us to be able to get back some of the coverage to which this is shown is gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1370	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘A family in Bamble, Telemark, has suffered a severe deterioration of traffic noise following an uplift of the E18 roadway that is close to their dwelling. The traffic noise now goes on health and the night sleep loose. The family has met with little understanding at the State Road Administration to address the problems. What is the responsibility of the Vegvessen to ensure that residents are not subjected to adverse health impacts in the form of noise from road construction or refurbishment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1379	The responsibility of the road authorities for implementing measures against noise in the construction of roads is regulated in a separate guideline for the treatment of land-use noise. The guidelines have recently been adopted by the Ministry of the Environment and replaced similar guidelines adopted in 1979. The guidelines specify indicative noise limits for the construction of new roads. In case of minor improvements to existing roads, such as: road safety measures for the construction of pedestrian and cycle paths are not required to implement measures to bring noise levels below the limit values of the guidelines, if the remedial action does not result in a significant deterioration in noise conditions. Along existing roads, the responsibility of the state road authority for implementing noise abatement measures is regulated by the pollution law. The regulation requires no one to have noise values higher than 42 decibels indoors. The regulation does not require noise values for outdoor areas. Along the E18 in Bamble, façade measures have been implemented, in accordance with the requirements of the applicable regulation, for dwellings that previously had indoor noise levels higher than 42 decibels. In practice, façade measures have been implemented for dwellings with significantly lower indoor noise levels than 42 decibels. This has been done to make sure that the noise level, including with long-term traffic growth, is actually below 42 decibels. Some minor improvements to the E18 have been made in Bamble since then, but these measures have not resulted in significant changes in noise levels. As I can see, the State Road Service has therefore taken the necessary steps to ensure a satisfactory situation along the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1392	I thank you for the answer, which I am not very pleased with. That's what I have to say. What's the case here is that when this road is converted, the roadway is raised, and terrain formations that have naturally protected from noise have been removed. It is felt by this family as a very dramatic deterioration of the noise pollution. As I said in the question, it goes on health and night sleep for these people. Is it not true that the Road Service should also relate to the situation as experienced by individuals and families, and not just to purely technical measurements? The State Roads Administration in Telemark has expressed its opinion on, inter alia: to Varden on 7 February this year that they have no further offer to make. Will the State Council, however, take initiatives towards the State Road Administration in Telemark and re-examine this matter in order to be able, if necessary, to take action to facilitate the situation for these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1403	I think it is a little difficult to deal with such a case here in Stortinget when I do not know who this is about. I stress that in work like this, we should follow the guidelines and rather be guided, as Vegvesenet has informed me that they have done in the work that has been done here along the E18. That's how noise makes people a pain in the ass. That's why we've developed these guidelines. It's a point that people should experience it as both safe, and also good, to live where they live. We're still going to focus on following the guidelines that are. I know that the Swedish Road Administration is concerned about doing extra measures rather than too few.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1412	I understand that the Council of State does not want individual treatment in Stortinget. But it could have been a positive signal if the Council of State had considered having the ministry obtain some more specific information in this matter, to see if not showing a kind of discretion is also reasonable in this type of case, as I said, and not just dealing with the purely technical regulations and limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1417	Here, the State Road Service has a responsibility that is heavy on them. The ministry does not deal with individual cases of this type, but we have developed guidelines to have something to go by, and to make people feel that it is a little predictable where façade insulation or other types of action are followed up. The state’s road system continues to take this with noise in all seriousness, because noise is perceived as a nuisance — and as a health plague. This will mean that further expansion along the E18, both in Telemark and elsewhere, will of course be marked by taking the noise seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1428	This question, from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Siri Hall Arnøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1431	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Climate statistics from the Statistical Central Agency show that climate emissions in Norway have increased by 9 pst. since 1990. In particular, emissions in the transport sector are increasing sharply, as cars and aircraft increase their competitiveness in favour of the more environmentally friendly modes of transport such as rail, public transport and bicycles. What is the intention of the Council of State to do to effectively reduce climate change emissions from the transport sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1440	The government's climate policy is based on an overall approach, with reductions to be taken where costs are lowest. This is necessary in order to have a high level of ambition in climate policy. Measures in the transport sector are relatively costly if implemented alone as climate action. It is also important to be aware that passenger cars contribute 14 pst. of domestic greenhouse gas emissions and that road and air transport together contribute about one fifth of domestic greenhouse gas emissions. But the emissions from the sector are increasing, and I see this as a major challenge. It is particularly desirable to implement measures in the sector which also have a positive impact in other areas, such as: in relation to affordability, urban environment and local and regional air pollution. For this reason, during the time of the Cooperative Government, there has been a strong commitment to public transport within the remit of the Ministry of Transport. This applies both to direct appropriations and to different other organisational initiatives. In the period, public transport has increased by several billion kroner. In this year's budget, nearly 9 billion DKK have been allocated for various purposes for public transport. A number of major development measures have been launched and implemented in the railway sector. With the exception of the exceptional expansion of the Gardermoban, there has never been any more investment on the railways in modern times. The means of purchasing passenger transport services from the NSB have increased, and to make the train even more competitive, I have launched a process to launch the rail service. The reward scheme for better public transport and less car use has further stimulated the use of public transport in the major urban areas. These are just a few examples of measures that will make public transport more attractive compared to the passenger car. Such measures will dampen the growth of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. However, in order to achieve significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, it is absolutely necessary to develop new fuels and technologies. In order to help accelerate the development of more environmentally friendly fuels and vehicle technologies, the Ministry of Transport has more than doubled the appropriations for research and development in this area in the year’s budget compared to last year. 22.6 million. kr has just been allocated to the RENERGI programme under the Norwegian Research Council. The funds shall be used for projects that contribute to the development and acceleration of the use of technologies that can reduce CO2 emissions and other environmentally harmful emissions from the transport sector. Priority shall be given to projects facilitating the use of hydrogen in the transport sector. Increased use of biofuels will reduce CO2 emissions from the transport sector. In the case of blending into conventional fuel, the CO2 emission will be reduced approximately proportionally with the biofuel share. The government will come back to this during this session. Fuel used in domestic transport is subject to a CO2 charge, which is an important instrument favouring low-carbon means of transport. It also stimulates the use of new technologies and low-emission alternative fuels. In the context of the 2006 State Budget, the Government will assess further fiscal changes that stimulate the reduction of pollutant emissions. In addition, I would like to point out that we have launched a number of smaller actions to be involved and stimulated. Among other things, we have given room for zero-emission cars to run in collective fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1476	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with the Council of State that many of these measures will at least lead to a better climate and emissions situation in the field of transport than if nothing had been done. At the same time, I record that the Council of State is talking about ‘reducing the growth of emissions’. Does the State Council have any objective of stabilising emissions from the transport sector? Where appropriate, the Council of State shall set a target for emissions in, for example: 2010 compared with today's emissions from the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1485	As I said before, I am concerned that we should have a cost-effective reduction in CO2 emissions. This means that in any case we must insist that the transport sector must contribute. Then it is important that we take inward that we are today facing a situation where we have a welfare development that we some decades back could only dream of. Most people have a mobility pattern that is completely different from what you had in the past to imagine could be the case. Most people are concerned that people should be able to travel and be mobile. Today, we have living and labour market regions that are larger than before, and commuting is more and more common. We even experience people commuting between Finnmark and Oslo. This means that both the car and the aircraft are in use. I have previously proposed to look at the airport structure, for the sake of the economy and whether it will have a positive impact on the issue we are discussing now, but then I did not receive support from Stortinget. SV did not support this either. It is very difficult to reduce people's transport needs. That's why I think the work on new technology is very important. In relation to the Kyoto agreement, we see that it is urgent. In relation to the objectives of the Kyoto Agreement, focusing on long-term, long-term measures will not help us. We therefore need, in all our policies in the future, to look at whether the measures we are proposing help us to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1499	I agree that we need to look at whether the measures we propose in the future contribute. But I could imagine repeating to the Council of State the challenge of a concrete objective, because the Council of State says that it is necessary to dampen the growth of emissions from the transport sector. It's true, of course, that it's the whole thing that's important, that the totality of emissions is crucial. At the same time, few reporting sectors are ready to reduce much more than their share. Most will quickly show that it is easier to reduce in other sectors. I assume that the Council of State shares the assessment that we need to stabilise and bring down greenhouse gas emissions. Does the Council consider that it is sufficient to mitigate the growth of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, or is this growth to be halted in the long term? Can we set a concrete goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1506	If I propose a specific objective, we will not propose anything that is cost-effective. I think that we will succeed, we need to reduce not only growth but also emissions from the transport sector. That is why new technology is crucial to our success. In relation to concrete objectives: when it comes to reducing people's mobility and people's ability to travel, the UK does not even support it when it comes to Stortinget. So I don't see that as a current issue. We need to find the most environmentally friendly solutions, such as: public transport where we can avoid CO2 emissions and develop alternative technologies. It goes without saying that it is very difficult to get this done in a short time. But we've added a race that should be able to carry us forward. As I said in my reply, after the introduction of the reward scheme, there has been a large increase in public transport in the cities affected. I'm waiting for us to get further, that we also see a reduction in car use. For the time being, it looks like we might reduce car growth, but the wish must be that we reduce the emissions from cars. It requires both new technologies and changes in transport patterns.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1531	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1537	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘According to VG’s articles on the relationship between Siemens Business Service and Defence, there are very close commercial and personal links between defence personnel and Siemens. The agreement between the parties may have a frame of about 1 billion. kr. Is it true that persons added by Siemens on behalf of the Defence Agency have purchased data equipment for use in the Defence Agency, and in that case has the content of the Public Acquisitions Act always been followed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1546	I look very seriously at the claims made in the media about the defence contract relationship with Siemens Business Service. The defence has therefore initiated an internal investigation of the contract, following the statements made in the media, and the Ministry of Defence has asked the Defence Staff for an explanation of the case and awaits it. The Ministry of Defence has also asked the Minister of State for assistance in the case for, inter alia, to identify whether Siemens has paid for the costs assessed by the Defence Agency as part of the coverage. The agreement between Siemens and the Defence for the supply of computer equipment itself is a framework agreement concluded by the Government of Stoltenberg in January 2001 concerning the acquisition, operation and development of a common IT platform for Defence, known as the FISBase. The framework agreement specifies the conditions under which orders are to be placed within the scope of the agreement. Since the conclusion of the agreement in January 2001, the defence has made a purchase of NOK 1.2 billion over the framework agreement. The agreement expires in 2006 and is scheduled to be renewed. The agreement was concluded following a comprehensive bidding and negotiation round and implemented in line with the provisions of the Public Acquisitions Act and the Defence Purchases Act at that time, the Purchases Purchases Regulations for the Defence, BAF. In order to ensure optimum contract performance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Minister of Government also assisted at the time of the conclusion of the contract. In a letter dated 4 February, the Chief of Defence notified a review of any irregularities in the Defence, including the relationship with Siemens, inter alia. to identify whether there are unacceptable personal relationships between the customer and supplier sides, as the respondent is concerned about. The Defence Staff has also clarified in a letter dated 15 February to the Ministry of Defence that formal liability and authority in relation to ordering goods and services under the Agreement have been assigned to permanent staff in the Defence Department. On the other hand, Siemens makes a number of purchases of materials from subcontractors to cover the defence orders. It is consistent with the terms of the agreement, where it is such that Siemens assumes the main supplier role towards the Defence, while they are themselves responsible for orders from subcontractors. I stress that the defence looks very seriously at the claims made in the media. A thorough review of the matter will therefore be carried out, and I welcome the outcome and follow-up of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1563	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It's very alarming, as the Council of State said, if there were to be anything in the statements made in the media in recent times. And as it is, it might look like, for us here as well as for others who read newspapers, that they have something to do with. I assume that we have a common interest in the fact that all the purchases that have been made by the Defense are in line with what the Defence needs, and that the methods used to arrive at the best products tolerate the light of day – that we really get currency for the money. In order for us to be sure of that, at least there has to be a purchasing competence in the Ministry of Defence that is able to handle our interests. I would like to be asked if it is such that the purchasing skills needed to make these purchases are present in the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1570	I would first like to stress that I fully agree with the questioner that, in the case of large purchases in the defence, not only public procurement legislation, BAF in this case, is to be followed, but it is also important that the ethical legislation, which the head of defence draws up, is adhered to. I also agree that everyone is worthy of all the facts in this matter. It is important that both taxpayers and other defence stakeholders feel secure that funds made available by the Defence are properly disposed of. As regards purchasing competence, in this case in the first row the FLO applies, because it is the FLO that makes purchases: FLO/ICT in the case of computer equipment, and FLO/I in the case of other types of large industrial acquisitions. And it is very important that the necessary purchasing skills are there. This is also one of the reasons why Stortinget has asked the Government to consider creating its own budget for the purchase function in the Defence Department, a matter with which we have promised to return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1579	I have a little follow-up question. Is it then such to understand that the Minister of Defence per. do not currently have an overview of whether the law on public acquisitions has been followed in these different purchases?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1586	I would like to make it clear that when this agreement was concluded, the then procurement legislation, provisions relating to acquisitions to the Defence Agency, BAF, was followed. It was the previous government that signed the contract, and in order to ensure the best possible contract results, contact was made at that time with both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Government to ensure the quality of the contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1594	I refer to the previous round of questions and have allowed myself to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘VG has put the search light on the relationship between Siemens Business Service and the Defence. The IT contract FISBased between the parties Siemens and the Defence began to run from January 2001. The agreement has as one point that Siemens cannot take higher coverage, which is the price less cost, than 8 pst. on supplied equipment. Is it correct that for some years the coverage rate has been higher than 8 p.m., and can the Council of State order that the defence has otherwise paid for the costs already borne by Siemens by its subcontractors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1603	I look seriously at the claims made in the media about the defence contract with Siemens. The defense has therefore initiated an internal investigation of the contract after the announcements in the media, and the Ministry of Defence has asked the Defence Staff for an explanation of the case, and we are awaiting that statement for the time being. The Ministry of Defence has also asked the Minister of State for assistance in the case for, inter alia, to identify whether Siemens has paid for the costs that the Defense assesses to be part of the coverage, i.e. that the respondent is concerned about. Defence and Siemens Business Services concluded a framework agreement in January 2001 dealing with the acquisition, operation and development of a common defence IT platform. Under the agreement, Siemens can calculate the maximum coverage of 8 pst. for computer material included in an «Approved Product List». This authorised product list includes materials that are subject to a typical recurrent order and supplier pattern, such as: PCs. The prices of the material included in the approved product list are negotiated and adjusted on an ongoing basis, including: on the basis of the contract requirements from the Defence to Siemens for the lowest price from the subcontractors. In all major individual acquisitions, the Defence and Siemens deal specifically with solution and price. In order to ensure optimum contract performance, the Government Attorney and Ministry of Industry and Trade assisted at the time of the conclusion of the contract. The Advocate General will therefore now carry out a review in order to identify whether Siemens may have made unlawful invoicing to the Defence Office, and the Defence Contract Auditor's task is also to carry out a thorough review of the contractual relationship. I would like to make it clear that if it is revealed that Siemens has paid for the costs that the defence considers to be part of the cover, this is very serious. In that case, the defence will claim its claim, if any, and will consider any other measures in consultation with the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1618	I thank you for your answer and see that the Council of State takes this seriously. I am pleased that both a proper inspection by the Department is started, and that the Minister's lawyer is involved, because it is in stark contrast to statements that are on the Defence's website about this agreement, from among others. the head of the supply department, Ole Peder Nordheim. It may seem that Siemens has undermined this agreement, which was probably very good at the time it was concluded, by overinvoicing, so that the coverage is significantly higher than 8 pst. The Financial Newspaper has also followed up this case and has come with figures. Among other things, they mention an amount of 35.7 million. kr more than what Siemens himself claims they have got out. The same newspaper says today that by calculating cover contributions over the entire contract period, Siemens may in fact have overcharged even more. The most important thing to investigate is, of course, whether it is such that Siemens actually includes costs in the cost price that the contract does not require. I would ask that this be looked at separately, and would like to ask whether the Council of State through this investigation will contribute to that happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1627	I fully agree with the questioner that there needs to be clarity in these matters. I also fully agree that it is important to clarify the questions that have been raised, not least by the Financial Paper, and that all the issues here are reviewed. I also think it is reassuring that the Minister's lawyer is connected, not least because the Minister's attorney at the time was involved in drawing up the contract. It should provide the best possible basis for a proper assessment of whether Siemens has correctly calculated this in relation to the contractual basis or whether there is in fact an amount here that needs to be recovered, and in addition any other measures. I will now await the review that is going on internally in defence in cooperation with the Public Prosecutor, and the review that the Defence Contract Audit is also commissioned to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1634	I assume that the Council of State also sees that this case illustrates the lack of management tools and control procedures in the Defence, in this case the Defence Logistics Organisation and, for that matter, also the supply command that we had. But I also think it illustrates how private interests actually benefit from the defense's lack of bookkeeping. It's probably the most serious thing about this, and it can apply to others, without me being able to stand here and guarantee it. It illustrates a contact where representatives, in this case for Siemens, have sat on both sides of the table. That means there are people who have neither the will nor the ability to make the deal. I just want to be as thorough as I can, make it clear that it's important to clean up, that it's taken hold. I also think that what the Council of State has now said contributes to that. She understands that you have to go in here and examine.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1643	I thank the questioner for finding the measures that have been taken to the satisfaction of them. I would also like to take the opportunity to link some comments to a few of the other moments that have been mentioned, among others. It's sitting on both sides of the table. As the questioner is aware, we have recently introduced new quarantine provisions in the Defence. It is important, precisely in order to avoid situations where people can have a direct transition from industry to the purchasing function of the Defence – or vice versa – so that we can be absolutely sure that stability is ensured in a good and reassuring way. In addition to having good practice, good procurement rules, it is important to stress that ethical legislation must be an important factor, that it should actually be ensured that it is complied with and that it stimulates attitudes that focus on compliance with ethical rules. I also believe that the divisionalisation that there has been a broad consensus in the Storting to implement in the logistical organisation, with a separate unit for ICT and a separate division for other large material purchases, can contribute to professionalising the procurement function of the Defence Agency, so that you can feel confident that the contracts we enter into are also carried out in a professional way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1653	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘After a successful licence hunt of 5 wolves in Hedmark, there are still many who believe that sheep losses and unrest will increase in the future. This is due essentially to the fact that there is still relatively much wolf left in the district, not least from Sweden. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Sweden and Norway have a predatory policy where those bordering on another country and other predatory policies will not suffer from the predators of another country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1662	The majority have concluded that Norway has an obligation after the Berne Convention to help ensure the survival of all the major predators in Norwegian nature. This also includes wolves. At the same time, there are many positive qualities in keeping livestock on the outback. The size therefore decided that the management of the four large wild game species must be laid up in such a way that it is still possible to operate with small feces in areas of wild game. Such a two-part goal is the government's duty to follow up, among other things. by decision on the hunting of wolves and by providing funds for preventive and anti-conflict measures. Collecting these instruments, together with the compensation schemes of the predatory game management, shall ensure that those who are victims of the loss of domestic animals shall not be harmed. Strap wolves will be able to act in all parts of the country. This is because young wolves can walk over large distances in search of the appropriate new revir region and make. And in the context of stepwolves, it may in future be relevant to establish a licence search where there may be significant damage. Such a hunting form can be established both within and outside the management area of the young wolf, as long as this does not threaten the survival of the herd and at the same time occurs according to the instructions laid by the Stortinget. Today, a great deal of work is being done in close cooperation between Norway, Sweden and Finland on the management of bears, yerv, wolf and gaupe. Cooperation includes research, stock monitoring and information exchange. This is a cooperation it is important to continue. At the same time, I am busy that we must mutually communicate the basis of the policy that the individual country is pursuing in relation to the large predators. This will increase understanding and cooperation on cross-border predatory game management.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1671	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret positively from my point of view, where I see that – in this case – roaming animals are not particularly positive for those affected. We now had a hunt in Hedmark that we think was going well, but at the same time we are severely affected by the wolves coming from Sweden. I am pleased that the Council of State says that it would be appropriate to establish a licence hunt, in order to reduce the damage. The Council of State also states that such hunting can be established both within and outside the management area of the breeding wolf. I'm interpreting that positively. This is about a lot more than just how many wolves we're going to have. This is a matter of nutrition, it's a matter of well-being, it's a matter of safety, so it's a matter of district policy to the greatest extent. It's about where we're going to live in Norway, and what we're going to live off. I'm really quite satisfied with the answer, so I don't have any follow-up questions. I thank the Council of State for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1680	It is a pleasure that the representative, Mr Bredvold, is pleased with the answer. It's important for me to follow up on the leads that the Storting has put here. It's a balance. We've said we want wolves in Norway. We want to take care of him, and there are some goals given for it. That's the goal to follow up, of course. At the same time, we also know about the damage. Therefore, conflict mitigation measures are important. I only have one goal with the policy, and that is to implement what Stortinget has agreed in ours. I think it's a good balance. One takes care of the wolf, and one takes care of the territory. I believe that the single policy is a good policy in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1690	This question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment: ‘There is a broad consensus that the reductions under the Kyoto Protocol are not enough to stop the anthropogenic climate change. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said that emissions need to decrease by 60-80 pst. relative to 1990 levels. There is therefore little doubt that a new and more comprehensive climate agreement must be reached. Will Norway require substantial reductions in the next round of negotiations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1699	As the representative of Bjørklund points out, there is a large deal that the emission limits set in the Kyoto Protocol are not sufficient to prevent anthropogenic climate change. However, the Kyoto Protocol, which is currently in force, is a first and important step, because the Protocol establishes binding emission obligations for a number of industrialised countries for the first time. On Wednesday 16 February 2005, therefore, is a brand day in international climate change work, and I have previously participated in a campaign under the auspices of the CICERO and the Norwegian Union for the Protection of Nature that the Kyoto Protocol is entering into force today. So to the question of Norway, it's going to take a lot of emission reductions. The government's position is clear: Norway will work for a more ambitious and more global agreement after 2012, which closes the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period. The starting point for the level of ambition in the formulation of long-term agreements must be the objective of the UNFCCC to prevent dangerous, anthropogenic climate change. As we know today, there seems to be an increasing deal that the global temperature increase should then be a maximum of 2 °C compared to pre-industrial levels. This is likely to correspond to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions at the level of the representative Bjørklund mentioned in his question. When it comes to national emissions, I can tell you that in the last week, the Government decided to appoint a selection to look at how Norway can significantly reduce its emissions in the longer term – a national climate vision for 2050. The task of the selection is to outline different future analyses of how national emissions can be reduced by 50-80 pst. towards 2050. Key developments in society shall be analysed on the basis of how they can contribute to the creation of a ‘low-carbon society’. The selection shall have a main focus on the possibilities of developing and implementing new technologies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also other future analyses based on possible changes in production and consumption patterns will be evaluated. The selection will have a time frame of 18 months, and its work will be an open and inclusive process in which relevant environment and actors will be invited to make recordings. In the light of its conclusions, the Government will set up a political process to develop long-term national targets for greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1712	I thank you for your answer. I welcome the fact that the Minister for the Environment places so much emphasis on this issue, which in most people's opinion is the most comprehensive environmental issue facing this planet. But I'm a little bit concerned with the specifics of future negotiations. What partners do the Minister for the Protection of the Environment see that Norway should choose in the future negotiations? How the Council of State sees it possible to obtain those countries that have not ratified the Kyoto Protocol — for example, the EU Member States, the United States and Japan. United States and Australia — including large-scale emission reductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1719	I thought the representative Bjørklund well showed some of the challenges we have. It's a big challenge that just the two countries, Australia and the United States, as the representative now mentioned, are not involved. Of course, I have been in dialogue with both my colleagues at my level. I can say that I feel that the signals that Australia has given are far more positive than those that the United States has given, and I actually view the United States as the big challenge of getting on with the climate negotiations. What I think is important is that even though we're down in a wave valley, we have to bet offensively. We have to do a job nationally, which I put into my answer. But this challenge must also be solved internationally. I believe that the EU has put forward an offensive strategy. In Buenos Aires, the Norwegian position was closely linked to its EU. I also hope that this will be the case in the future, because I see the EU as an offensive driver in climate issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1726	I thank you for your answer. It's a long way forward. In the past, Norway has had close cooperation with just the United States and Australia in climate negotiations positions, and this is a country that, as is well known, has not yet ratified the Kyoto Protocol and is not considered to be a country in the lead in avoiding climate change, rather the opposite. It is then a major challenge to engage in dialogue with these countries – but we need to think wider. Is it such a country that Norway should have as its partners also in the forthcoming rounds of negotiations, which must reach significantly longer than what was achieved in Kyoto? Or are there other natural partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1735	We do have the Umbrella Group, as among others. Australia and the United States are part of it. But there is no doubt that the countries represented there have different objectives. I still think it is very important that we get in touch with countries like Australia and the United States through the contact network. It's very important! But I have no doubt that when it comes to the political objectives, we are much closer to the EU, and we were quite a few in the position taken by the EU in Buenos Aires. There can be no doubt that we are in favour of an offensive policy, in line with what the EU has done. I want to give honor to the EU, I felt them as a positive driving force in Buenos Aires. But the network we've had in Umbrella Group has given us the opportunity to get in touch with Australia and the United States. Not least, I experienced it in Buenos Aires in December as very positive when it came to Australia – unfortunately much more negative in the dialogue we have had with the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1743	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment a question: ‘Man-made climate change is more visible than ever. In Bergen, precipitation records are set, and North Africa is hit by snowfalls. The Kyoto Protocol is a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, as a result, reducing dangerous climate change. Nevertheless, we see that the United States and Australia ignore the climate threat and refuse to ratify the protocol. Will the Government initiate sanctions against countries that refuse to ratify the Kyoto Protocol?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1752	At the Buenos Aires climate conference in December, I made it quite clear from the Chair that we now need political action. Climate change is alarming, including: the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment report, which was recently presented to the Arctic Council, clearly shows. It is clear from the report that we already see great climate change in our part of the world. We must be forbidden that what is now happening in the Arctic is a warning of global change. This reinforces the need for political action. In Buenos Aires, I also pointed out that we have to bring all the countries to a binding agreement after 2012. The United States, which alone accounts for a quarter of global greenhouse gas emissions, is not even prepared to discuss this. Both in Buenos Aires, in debates after and in newspapers, I have not concealed that I am not along in the United States' policies in this area. I feel very confident that my birthright is particularly well understood on the American side. I do not believe that discussions about sanctions against countries that do not ratify the Kyoto Protocol are particularly constructive at this time. The United States has clearly signaled that they do not want to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, which we have just as clearly told us wrong from the Norwegian side. However, it is now important to look ahead. The Kyoto Protocol is just a first step towards solving the climate problem. We want a more ambitious and global climate regime after 2012. Penalties between states are not the way to go if the objective is long-term and mandatory global cooperation in the field of climate change. It is important to be clear what we think other states should commit themselves to in international agreements, just as others will have opinions about Norway's international obligations. But this must be done in a way that also leads to constructive dialogue on solutions to the climate problem. It is only through compulsory cooperation that we can move some steps forward in the difficult and important climate policy – also in relation to those countries that are not currently ratifying the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1765	I thank you for your answer. There have been divided opinions about how offensive the Environment Minister has been to the United States. Nature and Youth reported inter alia: from Buenos Aires: ‘After holding two posts in plenary, Hareide has not even mentioned that there are some countries that are causing more problems than others. We don't have time for such encryption with the world's climate hosts." In Buenos Aires, the United States also made it very clear that they are not going to join the Kyoto agreement. With the Iraq war in mind, we are well aware that the diplomatic press is not enough to make the United States change its policy. On the other hand, we have other means of pressurisation and other measures that we can use. An example of such a measure is to threaten to start trading oil in euro. Will the Government take the initiative to investigate measures to impose economic losses on the United States if they continue to refuse to ratify the Kyoto Protocol?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1779	I share the view of the representative Jørund Leknes that this problem is very important and that we must give priority to it. On the other hand, I do not share the representative's view that I was unclear in Buenos Aires. I was very clear that we want a more binding agreement after the Kyoto period, which the United States opposed. What I chose in Buenos Aires, on the other hand, was to be clear about the political penance, where we were directly disunited with the United States, without going to a diplomatic word war. I would like to conduct a constructive dialogue, and I believe that I have more than good enough political arguments to lead that discussion, instead of making concrete criticisms of countries in an uniplomatic way. I think I have such a good argument that I don't need to use this kind of tool in the discussion with the United States. I have the arguments with me, the United States has the arguments against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1786	I thank you for your answer. The apartheid regime in South Africa has been called a crime against humanity. The regime was thrown away, among others. because it was internationally boycotted. The US climate policy is also a crime against humanity. The need for reductions in CO2 emissions is so great that we cannot accept the United States alone in this matter. I see the Government's response as if he's given up pushing the United States to agree to the Kyoto agreement, while the United States says that the reason they won't ratify the protocol is because it's going to punish itself financially. My question to the Council of State is therefore: is it not that when a country says that it would punish itself financially to enter into an agreement, it is appropriate to find instruments that make it economically profitable for that country to enter into that agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1798	There is no doubt that there is an economic assessment behind the position of the United States. On the other hand, I have faith in, among other things: the allowance system to which the EU makes and on which they will cooperate with Norway. They also see themselves working with both Canada and New Zealand, and will develop it further. It may also be attractive for the United States to commit to this in the future. One should be aware that there is a positive signal from the U.S. side. We know that Senators John McKane and Joseph Lieberman also have suggestions in the Senate. They fell just enough, but they got the support of 43 out of 100 representatives. That was perhaps more than what they had expected to be positive before the proposals came up to reconciliation. There is also a debate in the United States. I believe at this point in time should be constructive to get the United States on board. The United States has the largest emissions of CO2 today. I want to act constructively to bring the United States into more binding agreements – that is important. That line I want to continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1810	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1816	This question, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1819	I allowed myself to ask questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘The industrialised countries have been responsible for the largest emissions of greenhouse gases. Nevertheless, the whole world is affected by climate change, but residents in countries in the south have fewer opportunities to get away from the problems. 160,000 people die every year as a result of climate change, most in poor countries. Tanzania has said that climate change is a greater challenge than terrorism. To what extent is Norway’s climate policy characterised by securing countries in the south’s potential for development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1828	Let me first confirm that it is the industrialized countries that have historically been responsible for the largest emissions of greenhouse gases. They still do, but the developing countries will gather, by increasing population and economic development, in a few decades, for more than half of the global emissions. The country's recognition of the primary responsibility came, among other things. as expressed by the Kyoto Protocol negotiations – which are in force today. Only developed countries accept binding obligations to reduce emissions. However, in the light of the developments expected, it is necessary that the developing countries, with the largest emissions, take part in global efforts to reduce them. It is also true that the poorest countries will have more problems adapting to climate change than the richer countries. This is becoming increasingly recognised by the international community. Two new climate funds were set up in 2001 for developing countries with the main emphasis on adaptation. A third adaptation fund will be mobilised from a levy on projects under the Kyoto Protocol’s green development mechanism. The global environmental facility, the GEF, also has a dedicated programme for adaptation. Last December, a comprehensive work programme on climate change was adopted by the UNFCCC’s last meeting of the Parties. Norway is one of the countries that, with regard to the population, provide the most support for the developing countries in this field as well. We're tempted to do this in different ways. In addition to supporting research and distribution in this area, Norway has made monthly contributions to the two new funds, and we have been a solid contributor to the GEF every year. For example, the Norwegian budget for support for climate action in developing countries is increasing by 30 million. kr in 2005. We look at coordinating international efforts through channels of this type as most appropriate in this context. On the bilateral side, it is not so easy, as most developing countries with which Norway is directly cooperating are not yet giving top priority to such adaptation. As you know, our bilateral development policy is based on the principle that it is the beneficiary country’s priorities that are to be taken into account. We also have a great deal of hope that projects under the Clean Development Mechanism will be able to significantly increase the transfer of resources and technology and contribute to the improvement of living conditions in developing countries. This is one of the reasons why we have been able to benefit from this mechanism in the Norwegian greenhouse gas quota system since 2005 and thus stimulate industry to participate in such projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1839	I thank you for your answer. I want to get back to this with growth, because it is clear that climate problems are also very linked to growth. Many countries don't have so many hydrocarbons themselves, and the fact that they buy hydrocarbons in the form of oil or gas, we know that we will give a direct positive impact on GDP. So my question is, how does Norway internationally suggest that growth should not be so limited to fossil fuel use?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1846	There is no doubt that when we look at the future agreements, we are forced to have a completely different regime for developing countries than for industrialized countries. The challenge we see in the context of the climate today is created by us, the rich industrialized countries. I'm very busy now including developing countries in a future agreement. I think that's important, because when we look forward, we'll have a big problem if we don't include the developing countries. The dialogue with the developing countries seemed to me to be positive. While in New Dehli for two years ago we felt that the G-77 countries were gathering, we now experienced a much more divided group, precisely because one saw the challenge coming. When it comes to the future agreement, I think we're going to work on getting an agreement that ensures that developing countries can have a development, and that it's the rich industrialized countries that take the lead here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1851	I thank you again for the answer, and interpret the answer to that, saying that it is very important that developing countries do not enter the same climate as the rich industrialized countries have done. But at the same time, we know that countries like China may have plans to build 500-600 coal-fired power plants, etc. We also know that part of the basis for the Kyoto agreement is the trading of allowances, i.e. one should take out where they are the cheapest. That is the basis for trading on allowances. We also know that in the beginning this was called "burden sharing", i.e. burden sharing. But isn't it in a way also a bluff when we from the rich countries can actually buy ourselves free from doing something, home?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1856	I am very pleased with the regime we have established through the Kyoto Protocol, and I believe it was absolutely necessary for those who set up in 1997 and negotiated this, to have the possibility of a quota system. We have experienced that a quota system, for example: with sulphur emissions in the United States has had a very positive impact. The most important thing for me is that we have measures to reduce emissions. In fact, it is secondary to where the emission reduction measures take place. That's why I mean Norway, among other things. should take a substantial part of our national action, but we should also be involved in exploiting the market capacity of the use of the allowances system. Then the representative Jacobsen points to land like China. We could also have named countries like India and Brazil, which are going to be very important here. It is also important to be able to see that developing countries are very different – there is a great difference between them. And not least are some of the countries listed here, required to be involved and take part in the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1863	Case No. 1, Question Time, has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-16.ana.ud2564e1874	There is no record.
