ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e33	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Inger Stokstad, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e54	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e61	I'm not going to use the measured 5 minutes. The representative of Bastisen takes up in his proposal a number of important and interesting points of view and assertions that Stortinget should certainly take the time to debate at any given time. We all see that both fisheries and aquaculture have been in a difficult period, but fortunately we also see light in the horizon, to say so. We will be able - I refer you to the letter from the ministry - to debate the important points that Bastisen makes in his Document No. Eight proposals, when the March Council presents a big message to the Stortinget which will cover the whole spectrum of coastal and marine industries. For this reason, a joint committee has proposed that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes and that we take the debate when we receive the Stortinget report for consideration of this spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e72	I see that the Committee cannot join the proposal and that it is proposed to include it in the meeting book. That's all right. We are given the opportunity to debate this later, as the rapporteur said, but I still think that I should take the floor and explain a little bit about the importance of this being debated and widely referred to by the Stortinget. The Coastal Party has proposed the creation of a wide-ranging Commission to evaluate political, legal, economic and ecological conditions in fisheries and how globalisation and the privatisation of resources affect fisheries and coastal communities. The Minister of Fisheries and the Business Committee rejects this proposal and points out that the Government is required by the Storting to submit a communication on the framework conditions for the maritime industries and their impact on coastal settlement. It should also be noted that the Communication will address many of the issues proposed in the Coastal Party proposal. It's possible, it is. But the purpose of our proposal was to get a broader and more thorough discussion of these issues than what we get through the preparation of a big message. It was intended that this should be discussed independently of the notification. The most important thing for us was a wide-ranging fisheries commission that could find a comprehensive presentation of the major challenges facing industry, and hopefully also come up with coherent solutions that could create a more stable framework for industry. When this does not happen, we will take the opportunity to clarify what we consider to be some of the main issues addressed in the Storing Communication should include: How are we to ensure that natural resources benefit the entire coastal population? What fleet structure provides the most possible coastal workplaces? How are we to ensure that the fish is landed where it is to be landed? How are we to ensure that the maritime industries are on Norwegian hands? How are we to create a natural balance between production capacity and the possibility of disposal on international markets? How are we to secure new markets for our products? International maritime law provides coastal nations with a unique opportunity to manage their own fishing resources in a sustainable way. However, Norway should press for further development of the law of the sea so that even more fish stocks can be rescued from predatory fishing in international waters. We should work for an extension of the economic zones to 250 nautical miles. That way, we could seal both the Smutthavet and the Smutthole. Many suggest that there is a gradual increase in temperature in the northern regions. It is appropriate to investigate the impact of such a development on the migration of the fish within and outside the Norwegian zone. We hope that the big message will not be a defence letter for the government's misguided fisheries policy. Now it's time to look at the situation with new eyes. Private interests and public authorities need to cooperate in a completely different way than before in order to secure individual coastal communities. We have to stop believing that economies of scale are necessarily profitable. Wages and salaries for whom? Profitability of the shareholders, or profitability of the people living in coastal areas? We must guarantee Norwegian ownership throughout the industry. This is not only done by preventing the sale of fish quotas. We also need to buy back key companies that are out of the flag. We must demand that the crew of Norwegian boats be recruited in Norway. We need to be better at developing new markets so that the independence of the EU can be further developed and the dependence on the EU reduced. And last but not least, we need to get more allies in the international community for our way of expanding the maritime industries. In particular, we should develop regional fisheries cooperation in the West in order to ensure joint control of the natural resources in the Norwegian Sea. I would also like to end by saying that the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e95	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1522]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e110	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e119	The case concerns the implementation of E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand as a OPS toll-financing test project. This is the third and until now the last of the pilot projects for Public Private Cooperation. This project is also the largest, with a cost framework of approx. Three billion kroner. The state's share is 55 pst, and 45 pst. is toll-financed. In addition, the extension Timenes-Rona comes with approx. 300 million. kr, covered by 100 pst. by the State. The project has broad local connections. Among other things, all 30 municipalities, both municipalities and businesses in the Agder counties support this project. The start is planned for 2006, completion in 2009. This is a jubilee day for all those who have worked intently to repair this accident-related road section. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to commend the members of the Committee for the speedy and smooth handling of this important and important matter for a whole region of the country. The majority of the committee supporting the Government's proposal consists of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party. In the case of SV, they want a partial wooden road with a midway network on dangerous sections of the road, and not a four-way road, as it would impair the competitiveness of the rail in relation to the road. The Progress Party wants the project to be covered by 100 pst. by state resources. I expect the individual parties to deepen their views on this matter. When the Aust-Agder package was adopted, the project consisted of two- and three-way Grimstad-Dyreparken. Local actors, both politicians and business leaders, reacted to this. They wanted a forward-looking road with four fields and separated all the way to Kristiansand. Reference was made to both the volume of traffic and the large accident rates. I am proud of the Government's proposal and the proposal from the majority of the committee, which makes this possible with the decision today. This will help to reduce the number of deaths and injuries and also to remove motor vehicles and thus improve their accessibility. The line E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand is the most trafficked in the Agder region. On the route Øygardsdalen-Timenes, annual traffic of 9 000-11000 vehicles and on the route Timenes-Rona 23 000. This indicates that a four-field route with a centre line is necessary. The distance is 38 km. This is the last OPS test project to date. A thorough evaluation of this way of financing, building, operating and maintaining road projects will be carried out. The Working Party and the Centre Party are sceptical about this model. I think they'll explain that for themselves. To the right, this seems very positive. What we have experience to date is from the projects in South Trundelag and E39 Handeland-Feda in West Agder. Here, the investment phase looks very positive. Projects are slipping fine, works are moving faster than planned, and completion is one to three years before assumption. This also means a lot on the cost side. Finally, it is a jubilee day for the part of the country. On 7 February, the fatherland friend wrote in his director, among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘And today, we have every reason to celebrate an important journey to South Africa. For the new four-field E 18 trasé, E 39 over Kvinesheia and the Lister package will open up a new communication pattern in the region with consequences for interaction, employment and industrial development that we do not see today.’ I give my full support to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e156	It's the most I have to say congratulations on the day to Southland - when it's cheering so loudly. The Committee rarely spends a long time on matters. This is an example where we've spent a very short time. It helps with a local case spokesperson who is very involved in the matter. The committee is quite expounded. It's rarely on us when it comes to propulsion. I'm not going to repeat the statement, because it's good enough. I have to say that I myself have been doing this distance for at least 35 years, and there is a lot that has been better. There is a little bit left, but relatively there is much more that has been better than what is left. It will be less and less difficult to run ‘Southern’. Only sin he does not go straight forward, across the country--it takes so much time to come from Stavanger to Oslo. But I think we'll have to do something about that on distances other than this one. I may be especially pleased that we are now building a road for tomorrow. We've been able to build a road for yesterday. We build him a little too small in relation to what's traffic no--at least in relation to what's traffic in a very short time. Here we step out and build a road that lasts a while, even with increased traffic. I'm very happy about that, and I hope to do more of that in the future. In addition to getting four-field road from Grimstad to Kristiansand, we get in the little mile or a half around the Animal Park. Something else would have been completely meaningless. We in the Working Party added 250 million. kr to it in the national transport plan. I'm glad that the government followed this up, that we now get the whole distance in one, that we don't get a bottleneck in the middle. We support this project and support South Africa - and to the extent that traffic through Southland - that this will be a better road. But we are somewhat critical of the use of OPS - in conjunction with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. We'll be a little daunting for the continuation. So far, the government also says that, even if the case spokesperson might say a little little about that. And we have to evaluate. Then we hope that it will be evaluated properly, that one really gets to put into practice what we in the Center Party and the Labour Party point to. There are some elements that I think we need to evaluate. So the first thing is, what's in this model that makes it cheaper? I have listened to researchers say that it is primarily that it is built continuously. There doesn't have to be a Public Private Cooperation to do it. It can happen with state money, it can happen with state-borrowed money, it can happen in other ways -- if it's essentially what makes it cheaper. We also know that interest expense is higher with these projects, so it's a minus by this way of financing relative to others. We have to evaluate this against another way of building it so quickly. We would like to have problematicated this with risk-sharing. In many other countries, private developers take more risks than in Norway. In Norway, the country is taking a lot of the risk. If there's a lot of cars, you get more money for maintenance, and if it gets a little less, you get less money. It is also an example of models where there is a builder who takes financial responsibility. We need to get this problem validated. So the civil engineering sector says that they basically have no capacity for more than three such projects at the same time. Now I hope we don't get so excited that we invite a lot of foreigners to come to Norway and build a road, because we actually have some unemployed people in the construction sector, maybe 7 000-8 000 at least. Then it is important that we get them to work before we invite others in, and that we do this in a good way for Norwegian workers. We're worried about tying up the vows for 25-30 years. It's not just the Ministry of Finance that's worried about it. I've said a little bit of trickery that it can't just be that we don't need a commuting committee in the next big time, we can skip the travel committee for a whole generation if we don't fit us. We don't have to do too much of this at the same time and raise that much money. In the Labour Party, we are concerned that it should be built quickly, but we would like to have other forms of funding available. And I hope that the Council of State will say something, even if, for formal reasons, the government party is not involved in this evaluation order, which I understand to a large extent. So I hope that the Council of State will give back the elements that we have included in our evaluation order, because I hope and believe that the government too wants to evaluate this carefully and does not fall in love uncritically in this model.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e179	When I hear the debate today, it is gratifying that the Right for once prizes that there will be new roads in Norway. When I hear the Workers' Party, they're in the old lesson. When it's innovation and efficiency, they're negative. The working party suffers from the syndrome that when they hear the word ‘private’ or the word ‘competition’, the famous roller blind goes down too fully. This time it is OPS, Public Private Cooperation, for which they do not have the sense. The Progress Party believes that the implementation of road construction as OPS projects has many positive elements in them, including: the rapid and effective implementation of the projects. Dissemination of funding over several years is another positive contribution, which may lead to the simultaneous start-up of several projects. However, we believe that such projects should be repaid to the individual contractor by optical registration of passing cars, with subsequent payment from the state. The proposed project will - as usual - be financed by the drivers in the event of a new bomb, which the Progress Party strongly opposes. The Progress Party believes that it is a public task to finance the construction of highways through appropriations from the Stortinget. We will show that this type of consumer-paying project can only be accepted where the population by a majority, by referendum in the municipalities concerned, has said yes. Then we've said it's okay. On this basis, the Progress Party proposes that the project be fully financed by State resources, and we promote the following proposals: ‘1. The size consents to E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand being conducted as a OPS test project.2. The project is financed by the State budget with payment per pass based on optical reading.3. The amortisation period shall be set at 10 years from the completion.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e203	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e206	It is rare for me to interfere in the debate of the Committee on Transport. When I do it today, it's in pure joy over the majority position. I would like to commend the Committee on Rapid Procedure. The same thing can't be said about the matter itself. This part of the country has been waiting for and working for years. The need has been demonstrated emphatically. The stretch between Grimstad and Kristiansand is one of the most trafficked in the Agder counties. In summer, when the traffic is at its highest, one must have great patience if one wants to enter or cross the E18. Although measures to improve road safety have been implemented in recent years, the E18 in South Africa has unfortunately peaked statistics on deaths and serious injuries. It is especially in view of the safety and the need to reduce the number of road accidents that the Christian People's Party believes this development is so important. A 20-metre-wide road with four fields and a mid puller reduces the risk of accidents. Experience from the same type of road shows that with such an upgrade we can expect a decrease in the number of personal accidents of about 80 p.p., with the greatest reduction in the number of serious accidents. This is important both for individuals and for society in general. E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand is one of the main tribal road sections in Norway. Now, when we connect the two-field section between Arendal and Grimstad and the four-field section towards Kristiansand Center, with a safe road, it's very pleasant for us who live in the area. It's extra happy that one not only builds out the stretch from the Eyegards Valley to the Animal Park, but takes the whole stretch towards the center of Kristiansand. The extra charge of 300 million. kr for these 5 km is well spent money. This is the largest expansion ever in our part of the country. We welcome that, as the rapporteur said. This route is particularly important for business as a link between businesses and markets. It can be demonstrated that freight traffic on this route is increasing for each year. That is why it is so important to raise the road standard and safety. Looking at a tourist context, I can't stress this well enough. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating the increasing use of collective solutions. It is not a good environmental policy that there is one person in each car on the way to work. It is therefore very positive that holding sites are now being established in the new cross-border areas, so that more and more people can use the bus. The cost-benefit analysis has shown that this is a profitable project. It is exciting that this road development is a OPS project, Public Private Cooperation. I listened with interest to the case rapporteur, who said that other OPS projects go faster than expected and are completed 1-2 years before the estimated time. No one likes tolls, but the Christian People's Party accepts this so that we can now get started quickly. Such conditions are today, the large volume of traffic leads to environmental disadvantages for us who live along the road. Today's two-field standard, together with reduced speed limit and poor curve, leads to poor performance. Our impatience is over! In addition to the four-field road, 8 km walking and cycling roads shall be built in connection with the road project. This is very positive for the local environment, not least from a public health perspective. People are moving less and less. Now you get the opportunity to change this. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the cohesion and local support that a new E18 between Grimstad and Kristiansand has led to for the part of the country. Everybody's been moving. This is what we want. Now we are looking forward to the opening of the new E18 in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e234	I can join the ranks of congratulations when the southern part of the country can now improve a very busy road section. The centre party has previously agreed that one or more of the parcels of the route Eyegardsdalen-Animal Park may be built with OPS organisation. We know that the couple Grimstad-Kristiansand has had a bad accident count. So it's positive that this distance can now be improved. As mentioned before, the parcel we are now going to make is the largest of the three pilot projects agreed as a OPS project. The centre batch has previously opened to support the OPS test project, but it has been suggested that the projects be evaluated before one opens for more than three of which we are now adopting the last one. When it comes to evaluation, the Central Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, has again pointed out that we need to have an evaluation of the OPS test projects before we proceed. We mean that it's trying out the OPS funding method and evaluating the scheme gradually, that we can figure out whether the scheme is socio-economically reasonable. We often talk about getting as much money as possible. When the Central Party is busy with the very evaluation section, it's because we have to be willing to assess whether this funding method is the one that gives us the most way for the money. Therefore, it is important that we look at different elements of the evaluation. I'm not going to go into the different elements - Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt also talks about that piece - but that's different. what will be the level of interest, the size of the bonds and the consequences of the bonds using the OPS method. If the evaluation proves to be positive for the benefit of the OPS project, it is clear that it may be a method to proceed. But we have to be open so that there may be negative elements in this method, and therefore I think we should take the time to evaluate before we open up to many new projects like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e247	Let me share the reflections expressed both by the Workers' Party and by the Centre's Party on OPS funding. I think we deserve a thorough evaluation. I also think we'll see that there will be positive elements in that way of financing. The positive elements may also need to be passed on in new forms of financing that do not necessarily involve Public Private Cooperation. We have also supported that there should be three pilot projects, this is one of them. But I can't, after the news yesterday, stop having a little reflection in the end. Yesterday, the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau showed a sharp increase in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. They've increased by 9 pst. since 1990. So we're going to be 8 pst. over the target we will achieve by 2008-2012. What's increasing the most is offshore. Number two is road traffic. When we make the decisions about a little stump that we're making today, it might be hard to take the big perspective. It is difficult to see that it is the sum of all such individual decisions that make car traffic grow, which makes emissions grow. At the same time, we must recognise that we are in favour of the transport sector per year. Today, there is no effective strategy to reduce emissions of hazardous greenhouse gases. In the area we're talking about, there's no big plans for a railway development that could have taken away some of that traffic in a more environmentally friendly way. I think there are problems we have to take inwards, spend more time in the future and be able to pull with us when we discuss individual projects. We have come so far that climate change is about to happen, and we have to dry down the question every time we make a decision, big or small: will this help to increase emissions, or will it help to reduce emissions? It's a shame to say that, but this is a matter that, in isolation, is likely to help increase emissions. But we've said that we're going to be involved, because we see that it can also help save lives, given that it's a road that has too bad a standard of safety. But the matter also deserves to be reflected in the fact that it has both sides in it. Then we'll get back to what we can do to prevent that road construction from leading to strong traffic growth in the regions, so that the South too can achieve sustainable development in terms of the use of transport other than cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e258	E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand is one of the most important tribal routes we have here in the country. The road is of great importance to both population and business. The current standard of the section Grimstad-Kristiansand is poor in terms of accessibility, road safety and the environment. The road today is for a large part close to both residential and open air areas. There are very few means of passing by, and there have been many serious accidents on the route. From 1999 until now, 177 people have been injured or killed on the route. The Grimstad-Kristiansand project is the last of the two projects included in the Aust-Agder package. The first part of this package was the route Brokelandsheia-Vinterkjær, which was opened for traffic in the autumn of 2004. When the Grimstad-Kristiansand project is completed, 74 out of 110 km on the E18 through East Agder will have a good standard. This is a very good project, which will bring benefits to road users and businesses by significantly improving road safety and accessibility. I am pleased that the Committee on Transport also agrees that this is an important project and that the project will have a major positive impact on the region, the business community, the drivers and the environment. I have noticed with pleasure that the majority of the committee is pleased that the Government has followed up the Storting's treatment of the national transport plan by making the road a four-field road instead of a two-field road, which was originally planned. There has also been a strong local desire to do this. The government attaches great importance to building a forward-looking and safe road. The project includes the construction of a total of 38 km by quadruple road and shall be carried out as a OPS project. The total cost is probably NOK 3 billion, divided by SEK 2.7 billion on the Øygardsdalen-Dyreparken route and SEK 300 million. kr on the route Tierparken-Rona. This project is the last of the three OPS test projects we have here in the country that several people have been involved in. OPS is a supplement to the traditional implementation of road projects, and I believe that the OPS model can provide us with useful knowledge and an important basis for comparison. I would like to stress that my view of OPS is that there is no sesame sesame solution to what we experience as a scarce economic framework in the transport sector. The use of OPS does not change our main challenges, namely a great need for transport investment and for getting more out of every penny we spend on all types of projects. Through these three pilot projects, we will learn more about the appropriateness and usefulness of using other and new forms of organisation for the development of transport. The Ministry will make an overall assessment after the acquisition processes have been completed. The OPS project E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand will be financed by a continuation of the toll facility referred to in the East Agderpakket, see: St. pp. No 30 for 2000-2001. Reduced toll revenue and increased costs resulting from the construction of the road as a quadruple road prolong the tolling period by five years. There will also be a real tariff increase of 20 pst. when the road is opened for traffic. There is local political support for such a scheme. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the Government's proposal to implement the E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand as a OPS test project with partial toll financing. The road service will immediately start the acquisition process of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e283	The project is positive, but I am pleased that the Council of State is also quite sober about whether this can solve all problems in the road sector in the future. It's a paradox that we have enough money in the state, and yet let us borrow private money to be repaid over a whole generation. This has some elements in it that we need to look closer to; we need to see if we can do it another way. So the Council of State said a few words about evaluation. I could have thought that she had been a little more specific about what she wanted to evaluate. At least we see an increase in pressure on this: the combination of low interest rates and many cars makes it tempting for a lot of people to come to both the council and us and say that here we have a good project. The sum of such projects may be quite demanding, although the projects individually are good. So I want to ask the council: how many projects does she care about at the same time? Furthermore, I have to say that once I have looked at the organisation card for the projects we have, it is not particularly clarifying how the responsibility is. Is the Council sure that these projects will be organised in a way that makes it clear who is responsible for what?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e292	It is true that in Norway we are in a unique situation in relation to the economy to which the country is affected, to put it this way. At the same time, I also see that there is quite a consensus on the principles underlying the use of public funds and that the Workers' Party is also involved in the leadership of the action rule. I think that makes sense, precisely for the sake of the generations, that the representative here was in. That being said, I would like to stress that we have not started more than the three long-term pilot projects in respect of OPS on the roadside. We've been aware of this because we've wanted to have experience with it. I am concerned that the precise roles and responsibilities should be clear. That's what we're adding up to, but now we want all the way to see if they're clumsy clear. Experience so far is good, but there has been a little too little time for us to draw the big conclusions, and it is important to carry out evaluations along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e299	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e304	I noticed that the case rapporteur mentioned several times in his post that this was a jubilee day for Southern Sweden. Yes, it is a jubilee day for the South, and I have been looking forward to this day for many years. As a big representative from Aust-Agder and from Sørlanden, I would also like to say that this is a happy day for my part of the country - one day I have been looking forward to experiencing for a long time. We know that there has been a bad tribal road on the South, actually one of the worst in the country. Of course, the fact that the South is now finally being accommodated with one of the largest continuous road projects in the country is very positive for the whole of South Africa and for both Agder countries. With this I will give great praise to the many forces that together, on behalf of the Agder forces, have for a long time fought intensely for a better E18 in the South. Today we have to be satisfied with the counting after several years of fighting for a better tribal road in the South, as it is now finally clear that there will be a large-scale expansion of the new four-field road from Grimstad to Kristiansand. It is a sorely intrusive road development that is about to start up, and that will mean a great deal of positive for the country in all contexts of the years to come. Not least because of the very negative accident rate that we have had over many years at the current E18 in Agder, we are now looking with great expectations to a much safer and safer road. When the new four-field route is put into service in 2009, the number of fatal accidents will be significantly reduced. Of course, the Progress Party welcomes the fact that the project can now be implemented as an OPS project, and believes this will be both an effective implementation and a rapid progress of this entire very large road project to around DKK 3 billion. The only worm in the beggar is that all the other batches once again choose to resort to this horrific and unnecessary toll financing. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that it is, of course, the state of search that should finance this road project in its entirety, and we are therefore opposed in the strongest number of decades toll collection and extra-fleet of the drivers in the South. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the project be financed entirely from the State budget, based on optical reading per year. the passage and payment over a period of 10 years from completion in 2009. I hope, therefore, that it will be possible to remove every toll station on the E18 as soon as possible, but until then, after all, we will be well pleased that what is to happen now is a historic event that will be of great and invaluable importance to South Africa in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e317	Yes, there's a certain hallelujah mood on the East Agder bench today, for this is a great day for the county. Today's decision opens up a major work on the E18 where most, 33 km away from a total of 38 km, are located in East Agder. It's almost 50 years since this road section got a standard lift. The standard that was good in 1960 is too mature for the scrapheugen, and the time is far more in favour of raising the standard not only to today's requirements, but to future requirements. With the decision we have today, we achieve this. The section has four areas with middle parts, and considerable funds are invested in the running and cycling routes and in facilitating public transport. As I said, a happy day for Aust-Agder. A lot has happened in the road sector in East Agder in recent years. Three months ago, as the Council of State said, a new parcel on the E18 east of East Agder was opened by the Council of State. Now give the starting signal for the large extension west of the county. Completely developed, that means that approx. 70 pst. by E18 through the county is of good standard. What's left is the distance between Arendal and Tvedestrand. This route has received a very good comment in the setting of the national transport plan, and I know that the municipalities concerned are doing well in the planning process, so that this route can be included when the national transport plan is to be rolled. I believe that there is reason to commend both the Council of State and not least the Committee for the expeditious finalisation of this matter. It was important that the Council of State got four blocks into the proposition. The Committee adopted its rapporteur-general's opinion in mid-January, and now, on 10 February, the matter is under consideration in the Stortinget. It says that respect, and I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for a quick but thorough work. This is the maximum OPS test project so far adopted. That this organisation has also in this case given faster progress towards decision making, and will make faster progress during the construction period, I feel quite certain. Faster progress is speeding up completion, providing more efficient use of both financial and human resources – all for the benefit of users. It is therefore good that the large majority support both the project as such and its organisation. I noticed that the Progress Party does not want to receive toll funding. It's not surprising, but there's reason to remember that the funding of the Progress Party would probably not have given a new way on this route for the next 10-15 years. SV’s arguments that a large-scale bet on the quadruple motorway would impair the competitiveness of the rail compared to the road cannot be considered to apply to this route, as there is no such route and has never been a railway on this route. The deployment of any coastal railway is so advanced in time that this route is likely to have been repaired both once and twice before it had to arrive. That may have been said before, but I repeat it: this is a great day for East Agder - a great thank you to the committee's majority for great work!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e330	Yeah, this just gets better and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e333	Today, hopefully, when we decide to build a new four-field road between Kristiansand and Grimstad, it will be the largest single investment ever made in East Agder: $3 billion, 3,000 million. kr. If someone a few years ago had said that in my lifetime I would drive on the four-field road from Grimstad to Kristiansand, I would not have believed them. So even though I am 60 years old this year, I now have a realistic hope of being allowed to drive on the four-field road in 2009. There are now three pilot projects for road construction with Public Private Cooperation that provide this rapid development. Two of these projects are in Agder, the Lister package of SEK 1.3 billion and now this project Grimstad-Kristiansand. There is nothing to hide that there are many who are envious of what we now get into Agder. Maybe it's time to say that it's in the South that it happens, and it happens because the whole part of the country is together. For many years 30 municipalities, two county municipalities, the business community and all the population representatives have been working together on this road project. So the most important thing in society is that personal injury accidents are going to fall dramatically and that environmental benefits are high. The advent of four-field roads means that the five miles from Grimstad to Kristiansand will be about Half an hour. On the Arendal-Kristiansand route, 150 000 people can benefit from a common housing and labour market much better. The University of Agder is also on the Kristiansand-Grimstad-Arendal section, and people in East Agder have Kjevik as their main airfield. The road section, which is the most trafficked and located in the centre of Agder, will also have a major impact on regional development. It may be beneficial for the county merger debate that is now taking place in East and West Agder. Indeed, road construction helps to link the area more closely. It's maybe this and new road constructions that will now make folding easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox This happy debate is over. [[Votation, see below]] Then it might be a good idea to end with a Trysil poem: "Oh, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e359	Then Stortinget goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10.ana.ud635e380	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The size consents to E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand being conducted as a OPS test project.2. The project is financed by the State budget with payment per pass based on optical reading.3. The amortisation period shall be set at 10 years from the completion.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
