ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e37	There is a broad majority in the Committee, all parties except SV, who support the Government's proposal in this matter. The entire Committee points out that Norway has ratified several ILO conventions protecting strike rights. So we want to point out that it obliges the government at any time to show great caution about intervening in a labour conflict. According to the Government's orientation on the labour dispute between the EL & IT Association and the Land Association of Technical Entrepreneurs, the Government's proposal is that the conflict, which has now lasted for five months, poses a rapidly increasing security risk, as reported by the State Building Authority. The most obvious issues about the use of compulsory pay terms that we have dealt with in this room are either life and health risks or large social costs. But it is also the case that there is a long tradition of basing on the government's assessments when it comes to compulsory payroll issues. So Difor supports a broad majority of the proposal. We want this practice to continue, that it is the Government's assessments to be based. So the majority in the committee makes it unusual to express a concern as to what conflicts and consequent social costs and disadvantages may arise in the future, if the Government does not take the initiative to secure pay and employment in Norwegian workplaces. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party ask the Government to submit proposals for social dumping. We have had a broad commitment both before and in connection with the EEA extension, and have pointed out the pressure that can arise on the labour and services market if one does nothing here. In connection with a case last spring, concrete proposals were made both in the Stortinget and in Odelstinget, concrete legislative proposals that I believe would secure Norwegian labour and pay conditions in a much better way than the backward hold that the Government then showed, and which the Government unfortunately still shows. We particularly point to the need to implement ILO Convention No. Ninety-four. This will imply Norwegian pay and employment conditions in state and municipal enterprises, so it is a convention that has already been ratified by the Norwegian side but has not been implemented. We mean that in itself will give an important signal effect. So the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have a note where they react to the fact that the plural number comes with this call for the Government. They refer to the same procedure to which the majority of the Committee refers, namely the comments and proposals contained in the Inst. S. No 149 for 2002-2003 and Innst. O. No 64 for 2003-2004. I just want to take the opportunity once again to call on both the Council of State and the Government to take seriously the developments we are now seeing in Norwegian working life, and to do more than they have done so far, in order to secure Norwegian pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e58	SV opposes the decision of the Committee and the recommendation of the Government to use compulsory pay terms in this conflict. We do that by answering the question that the Stortinget has been asked: the condition of compulsory pay is not present. The condition for forced pay is that life and health are at risk or that so large a social interest is at stake that it is not advisable for the conflict to continue. None of the pieces have been placed on the table by the Government. Therefore, the condition is not present. It is sad that the Workers' Party and the Centre then feel more obliged by a tradition in the Storting to follow the Government than that they look at the mission they actually have, namely to see whether life and health are at risk or that major societal interests are at stake. The size shall not take account of the content of the conflict, but as political parties, it shall be permissible to comment on the content of the conflict. I think the government parties do, I think the government does, and that's what we've seen a result from when the law came at the time it did. Taking away from the fact that you mean something about the content of the conflict, I think it's a little bit sought. SV has had a clear position on this matter for a long time, because we support the fight against social dumping. Social dumping is not something that came into Norwegian working life with the Poles. It happened before, it's been there before, so it's about to break into a situation in Norwegian working life where pay and employment are threatened. But not enough of that: it is becoming an unbridled situation where it can also develop so that serious companies are being outrun by companies that do not follow the rules. It's quite serious. It's possible to do something about it. In my opinion, this conflict could have been resolved at a much earlier time if the government had followed up what they say they agree on, namely that they are opposed to social dumping in Norway, by reinforcing the legislation, by implementing the ILO Convention and by providing the trade union movement with transparency in pay and working conditions, so that it would have been possible to verify that what is actually being said is actually done. As long as you do not choose to do so, there is a clear signal that there should be Norwegian pay and working conditions, only a political statement that you do not intend to follow up in practice, while, to put it that way, you let it go out of the question by putting down wages and salaries, making working conditions worse. To put it this way, the legislation that was supposed to make it safe in Norwegian workplaces is crumbling. I think that signal's been picked up. I think we're going to see things in this area that most people will feel is a development that you don't want in Norway. SV is going to vote against the law. But I have a call for both the Workers' Party and the Center Party, but perhaps especially for the Government, to make serious of their statements that there will be Norwegian pay and working conditions in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e71	The Coastal Party will work to ensure that imports of foreign labour will not be used to pressure wages and working conditions in Norway. A brutal competition between the Nordics and non-residents for work and well-being could create conflicts between different ethnic groups in Norway. Our country should therefore exit the EEA, which represents a common labour market with the whole EU territory. The migration peak should be reintroduced across the EU area. The conflict between the NHO and the lift installers relates to one of the basic principles which, in the view of the Coastal Party, should also be regarded as an indispensable condition when one first has a relationship with the EU through our EEA Agreement, namely that everyone who works or performs services in this country is to be paid in accordance with Norwegian wage and wage agreements and not the host country. If workers and service providers are to be able to work and operate in this country under foreign wage and working conditions, this will undoubtedly weaken the hard-working rights of the Norwegian trade union and other professional organisations in the field of fisheries and agriculture. It has been an important prerequisite for today's society that we have had strong organisations. I want to point out that the same forces that want to open up social dumping also want to eliminate trade unionism and the professional organisations in the field of fisheries and agriculture. I would like to mention here the termination of the main agreement for the fishing industry last year. The coastal party does not wish to support a policy that weakens the organisations, on the contrary. The Coastal Party has been supporting the trade-union deduction every year precisely because the members of the professional organisations, who are involved in maintaining these, are to be compensated for their expenses by sustaining strong professional organisations that show responsibility to both members and communities. The coastal party has been very critical of the widespread use of forced pay because it weakens the responsibility of economic operators to find solutions that both them and society can live with. However, within the Norwegian system there is a condition for compulsory payroll that life and health are at risk. The Coastal Party cannot see evidence that this conflict has put life and health at risk, even though this conflict naturally strikes as a third party. It should also be noted that today's payroll system will not be able to address the principal aspects of the wage and working conditions of EU workers, which is at the heart of the conflict. In view of these factors, the Coastal Party will oppose the bill on compulsory payroll in the conflict between the NHO and the lift installers. Otherwise we are against Norway being sold bit by bit!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e94	It is the social partners who are responsible for the income statements and for the peace of work. Society normally has to bear the disadvantages of a legal conflict of labour. However, it is generally accepted that there are limits to the impact of a labour struggle on society, and when this limit is reached, government and enlargement have the right and duty to intervene. The conflict between the lift installers and the lift undertakings started on 24 August 2004 in the context of the revision of the Agreement on the lift subject. The parties negotiated and were for mediation in May and June. When the mediation ended on 29 June without any results, no work was started immediately. Instead, the parties decided to meet again after the holiday, and a new mediation was carried out on 23 August. But even this time, consensus failed, and the conflict was a fact on the 24th of the same month. At first, 90 lifts were taken out on strike, concentrated on businesses in Oslo and Bergen. The lift service AS, the lift installers’ own strike company, was put into operation at the same time as the strike was initiated. Under a changing name, this company has been active since the first time there was a conflict about the lift agreement between 1937 and 1938. The conflict was then gradually expanded, only by the TELFO launch of the lockout for 137 lift installers on 13 September 2004. On 25 October, 21 hoist fitters were taken out on strike, on 23 November the lockout was extended by the exclusion of another 225 hoist fitters, and on 1 December eight more workers were taken out on strike. At that time, 481 out of 608 hoist fitters were in conflict, 119 on strike and 362 on lockout. The most acute consequences of the conflict were largely offset by the Heisdienst AS and by exemptions from the employer’s side. However, after the extension in November, the conflict became more widespread and the consequences for individuals and other outsiders became more apparent. I called the parties to the meeting on 21 December and got an information about the conflict. With reference to the ever-significant disadvantages that the conflict brought on everyone who is dependent on a lift, I strongly urged the parties to come up with a solution. The Riksmeklingsmann also investigated the situation on several occasions, but did not find the basis for new mediation. Because the conflict lasted so long, there were two aspects of life and health that had to be assessed: the danger of life and health due to lifts that were stopped and the safety risk of lifts that were still in spite of lack of maintenance and supervision. Hazardous lift installations represent an increased accident risk and thus a risk to life and health. The daily reports of the State Health Authority did not provide any indication of danger to life and health due to lifts that stood, even though the reports pointed out the increasing disadvantages of the conflict for persons with reduced mobility. In a letter dated 22 December, the State Building Technical Authority, which is responsible for the safety of lift installations, considered that there was probably no acute danger to persons due to a lack of maintenance, but that in the long term it would result in a deterioration in the quality of lift installations. In addition to that, in January, the Heiscontrol went out and warned of the consequences of the lack of maintenance and the danger that lifts would be started after the stoppage without any necessary overhaul. On 20 January the department received a new letter from the Building Technical Office, which made me very concerned. In the letter, the Building Technical Authority reported an unexplained and serious safety situation, including: on the basis of the accelerating safety effect of the lack of maintenance and servicing, the safety risk of lifts which should have been stopped, ‘squashing and walking’ and the risk of a permanently reduced level of safety of Norwegian lifts. – Sitting with such a letter in case of an accident is a great responsibility to bear. In view of these serious circumstances, in the context of the major disadvantages of the conflict for people with reduced mobility and others dependent on lift, and the fact that the already very long-standing conflict seemed to be fully settled, the Government decided to propose compulsory pay. It is my view that the intervention, with such serious security consequences, which could lead to a risk to life and health, is within the framework of the conventions of international law that we are bound by. I note that the Committee in the configuration stresses that they usually do not address either the basis of a conflict or how the conflict itself is handled by the parties. In my view, there is no basis for doing so in this case either. An intervention in a legal work struggle can never be justified in what view it is based on the basis of the conflict. The government's proposal on compulsory payroll is based solely on the serious consequences of the labour conflict and could have. I therefore find it wrong, in connection with the matter we are now dealing with, to go into a discussion of the Government's position on the issues of social dumping. There are questions that we will most likely come back to in another context, and to which I, the Council of State, intend to have an active relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e120	This type of conflict is complicated. The progress party has also been in doubt in this case as to whether it would be right to intervene with compulsory pay. However, the claims made by the SV representative that the majority of the committee does this only in the context of tradition are, after all, a little misleading. The Council of State set out the basis for the fact that the majority of the Committee also at this time support compulsory pay, although it may be considered a matter of concern to do so in this situation. That being said, I'd also be allowed to elaborate a little bit on that as the minority in the committee, but which is probably then a majority in the Chamber, says in their remarks in the position. We find it simply not necessary, and simply unacceptable, that the political angle should be used as an argument in this kind of attitude. But I'm recording that in this context, someone is trying to make it seem that some parties are absent in the fight against social dumping. I find that regrettable, especially in view of the long debates and the heavy issues that we had to deal with in 2004. Then all the parties had the opportunity and opportunity to promote – and did – their views and suggestions. We were then given a clarification in Stortinget in relation to the extension of the EEA. So you could say that some other parties also didn't reach out with their main priorities in relation to that kind of challenge. The progress party also lost in a number of areas there, but we see no reason to address it in connection with such a case as this one. If we were to do that, we would probably have asked the government to promote a separate case of what goes on social dumping. And maybe it'll be necessary soon, because I want a lot of parties to define what is social dumping. Maybe that's where the big disagreement is. I must admit that when we dealt with these issues in 2004, the Progress Party and I were very concerned – very much about the possible developments we had to bring about with increasing labour immigration from the new EU countries. So I have to say that there's a little bit of comfort in looking at statistics and development. So even though we're experiencing 40 pst. increase in labour immigration from these countries over the course of a year, the areas of Norwegian business that we may have thought would have the biggest challenge — construction, plant and technical — had a reduction in unemployment of 16pst. The reports say nothing about how price developments have been in the same period, it could be interesting to know. It may be that it has benefited all consumers. We don't know anything about that until we get a broader basis to evaluate it. But if we get reports of enormous social dumping developments, in the sense that Norwegian workers lose jobs simply because foreign workers compete with them by working for lower wages, then it has to be responded to. There is also reason to mention that today there are tools that actually regulate it as many refer to as Norwegian pay and working conditions. In my opinion, if you work in Norway, you work under Norwegian pay and work conditions. And we have laws that regulate this particular area, if employers or employees break these assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 299]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e145	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e177	The Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e190	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party to oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e207	I forgot to press the button.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-10-lower.ana.ud2497e214	The title of the law and the law as a whole are then endorsed by 53 against 12 votes. The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
