ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Let us resume the session with item 7 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for the oral answer of the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the fulfilment of the electoral slogan "Galicia First"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, this year he left two things very clear to us. The first is that Galicia has no president, we have a tenant in Monte Pio; and the second is that you are unable to raise your voice in defense of the Greeks and the Greeks. His motto "Galiza first" is now "Rajoy first", whatever it takes, falls down. [[Murmurs.]] Above Galicia, for Feijóo there is always Rajoy and his ministers. And we see that among your favorites is the Minister of Development of the Government of Spain, Íñigo de la Serna Hernáiz. What we know about Don Iñigo is that he likes to walk around Galicia. In fact, he's already visited us four times this past year. It was in December, it was in April, it was in July and it was now in September. You've seen Galicia all over the stations. I saw her in the winter, in the spring, in the summer and in the autumn. But, look, Mr Feijóo, the last visit of the Minister of Development has only served to tell us that the laws we passed in this Parliament have passed, that what we decided on by the Greeks and the Greeks to Mr. Íñigo de la Serna literally matters to Mr. Íñigo de la Serna. We've been confirmed the veto on the transfer of AP-9, and above all, it says that what remains is dialogue. What remains are absolutely abusive beaches that pay the Greeks and the Greeks and what remains is their prepotence; and all this contempt for Galicia with you present, little and smiling to get out in the photo. [[Applause]] As the People's Party, Rajoy and his ministers are so proud of dialogue, what they do is banish the AP-9 debate. And it's surprising that they fill their mouths with democracy and then they stop us from discussing the transfer of AP-9. You act like a language triller. For the People's Party, democracy is to prevent debate; and, however, to put ballots for people to vote is antidemocratic. This country, Mr Feijóo, deserves a worthy president who does not lie or deceive, a president who is able to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And, look, let me tell you something in all honesty. Clearly, you and I have many differences from a political point of view. But I can tell you I'm sorry to see how it allows you to none in your party, because what you're allowing with that attitude is that you're none and you're mistreating Galicia. I don't want to be respected, because that's up to you. I would ask you to allow us in this Parliament to defend the dignity of the Greeks and the Greeks. I'm making, for that, two proposals, Mr. Feijóo. The first is that we present an appeal to the Constitutional Court to all Members and Members. I'll do it. Did Mr Feijóo do that? And secondly, that we approve an institutional statement rebuking Ana Pastor and Mariano Rajoy for the continued contempt of the Greeks and the Greeks. Mr. Feijó, to respect us we must be respected. And you should remember every morning that he promised the Galicians and the Greeks that Galicia would be first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, you bring a question from the past legislation, because it was in the elections of the year 2012 when the Greeks supported the program under the title "Galicia First." As you can imagine, whether we defend Galicia or not, whether Galicia was first or not, what is important is not your opinion or mine, what is important is the opinion of the Greeks. And the Greeks in 2012, when we presented the election program, they made it clear, they said they considered it timely, and they said, exactly one year and two days ago, that yes, that in Galicia itself. And as a result of that Galicia was the first, the Greeks said: in Galicia, yes. [[Applause]] That's why, Mrs. Pontón, the Greeks said yes. Why? Because the Greeks want a stable government and they don't want a fractured government that consists of a pact that they lost the election. The Greeks said yes because in Galicia they want the Government and the country to own their destiny, not to be intervened or living from what we have provided to the rest of the Spaniards to maintain an autonomous community and their government unable to keep it standing. And in Galicia they said yes because the Greeks want a model of coexistence, we don't want to break society and we don't want or accept in any case that some political group says the Greeks are good against the Greeks who are not good. Mrs. Pontón, a year ago the Galicians and the Greeks spoke and said clearly what they wanted, they told the Galician People's Party 47.6% of those who participated: you rule with 41 seats -- the best election result since the year 2000. They also said what they wanted in connection with their party. And his party took out 8% of the votes, with 6 seats, the worst election result since the 20th century. Naturally, Your Honor, you're very happy and your colleagues too. We're not going to tell you that you mustn't be happy. Go ahead. But yes, Your Honor, Galicia, first. The Galician People's Party is the first and the BNG is the last, that's the big difference between the Galician People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] Your Honor, since Galicia is the first, we always thought the same thing in Galicia. You're talking like a conversation now. Yes, Your Honor, you remind me of Paul when he fell from the horse. It's still in this House's Session Diary. The People's Party alone defended the transfer of AP-9 —36 votes in favour. And you and the rest of the BNG and the Socialist Party voted against. That's what the collective memory of the country says. And that's why Galicia is the first for us, and that's why the Greeks want Galicia, yes. And you know how Galicia works, Your Honor? Look, in the last forty-five years, since the highway was built, Galicia has painted zero in its management. Now we have a shared management. I don't say, you gave that minister that you don't like. And with regard to the money, Mrs Pontón, are you really not going to apologize for paying that Government of Spain -- what you so disqualify -- nothing more and nothing less than 60 million euros since the year 2006 when you voted for that agreement -- and we just cancelled the agreement? And you know, Your Honor, what does "Galicia first" mean? Galicia is the first because we saved 400 million euros until the year 2048.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u7	And that's why the Greeks, in front of a party that saves them 400 million euros, say, in Galicia, yes. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u9	Mr. Feijóo, this question is indeed from the pleistocene, because you are clearly always in the past repeating the same arguments because you know perfectly well that you have a very serious problem on the table. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I know you love to make opposition from the opposition when you're unable to defend the management you're doing in your government. And you can come here to make the historical revisionism you want, but the AP-9 Transfer Law has no line written by you, but that law has written it, drafted it and pushed the BNG. And if there's this debate in the country today, it's because BNG put this proposal on the table. [[Applause]] And the problem, Mr. Feijóo, is not what the Greeks and the Greeks vote when there are elections, but what you do with responsibility and the confidence that the Greeks and the Greeks gave you. And it's very serious, Mr. Feijóo, that you're cheating and lying. Do you know what the Greeks and the Greeks don't want? Paying for taxes that are a real scam. Do you know what the Greeks and the Greeks don't want? To see your president always subordinate to what the People's Party says no matter what happens to our country. You have valued a cut of 448 million euros, you have evaluated the veto of AP-9 transfer, and you are now doing so with your attitude in this plenary. Look, Mr. Feijóo, I think it's important in politics to be serious and to be serious. What about you?, would it be lighthouse in the debate about the AP-9 transfer or is it serious and you really want us to get the AP-9 transfer? You told the Greeks and the Greeks that no kind of competence was being transferred to anyone; and yet if you go to the Ministry of Development, you see how at this time your friend, the Minister of Development, is transferring infrastructure to other territories. Why not Galicia? I've got it here, if you'd like me to provide you with the documentation of the Principality of Asturias. Why have the Basques and the Catalans had the transfer of their highways decades ago and you're a reminder to defend that this gets Galicia? Look, I want to ask you the question again, because that is what you have to answer: before the AP-9 transfer veto, will Mr Feijó file an appeal before the Constitutional Court, yes or no? I can tell you that I'm going to introduce it and I'm going to defend that Galicia has the right to end the scam of AP-9 peas. And secondly, are you going to allow them to follow him away or are we going to take a step to respect us? And the step to take is to tell Ana Pastor and Mr. Mariano Rajoy clearly that we do not accept his contempt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u11	...that we do not accept that we do not accept this Parliament and that we do not accept that the laws we approve here are discussed. Because I don't know if it's democracy for you. I really think it's canceling the competitions that Galicia has recognized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u13	...in this little status. [[Applause]] Be respected, Mr. Feijóo, because the one who is offended and the one who is insulting is all the Greeks and all the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Pontón, Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament number 323, March 30, 2017: the BNG against the transfer of the motorway. What are you bragging about, Mrs. Pontón? What happens, what happens, that you are now more nationalist than when you voted against the transfer of the highway? Is this what you call it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, I was in the opposition. I voted for the transfer of the highway. I'm still in the government and I'm still defending the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic. And I just told you, Your Honor, what I did and what I did. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I know that the nationalists of the manual are not Galician, but nationalism. I'm interested in Galicia. I can match the nationalists in any case, but Galicia is the first, Mrs. Pontón. And since Galicia is the first, we are not in favour of its proposals for self-financing, because you, as nationalists, want a nationalist concert. We lost more than 1 billion euros, but you insist and persist. Look, Your Honor, when you were ruling, you said 8% of state investments would be magnificent. Now that minister you disqualify last year believed 11% of the total state budget, but it's nonsense. I know you're not used to seeing Ministers of Development for Galicia. Of course, you were the one who supported Magdalena Álvarez in the Senate, the one who didn't come for Galicia, that one didn't come for Galicia either every quarter or every year, but you were still supporting Magdalena Álvarez. [[Applause]] Even the BNG was key in the Senate not to reprobate that minister. That's within the biography of German nationalism, Mrs. Pontón. That's why I take my biography and that's why you should take yours. We've just proposed the Public Transport Plan in Galicia and you're against it. Why? What interests are hidden? Are transport companies more interested in you than in the Greeks that are transported? [[Murmurs.]] But, Your Honor, exactly what are we accused of? Is there anything more and nothing less about saving Galicia EUR 400 million? Take the blame. Ladies and gentlemen, you were in the Government in 2006, and they signed an agreement with the Government of Spain to fund a state highway. We have paid EUR 60 million, we have just conquered, we have just conquered, the resolution of that entrepreneurship agreement for the interests of Galicia. We just got a saving of 400 million euros and you charge me I don't stand for Galicia. Your Honor, I haven't done anything else since I get up until I go to bed: defend Galicia. And I'm gonna keep doing it all the time, I can make sure I'm gonna keep working on it. [[Applause]] You're talking about the fees. Look, Your Honor, with the nationalists we paid two peas: the rates in the cab on the highway and the rates in the budgets on the board. With the People's Party, we won't pay a toll again on the budget of the Union, that's a big difference again between the nationalists who speak and the people who act. Mrs. Pontón, I tell you with total and absolute respect: for us Galicia is the first, for you alone is nationalism the first. And as Galicia noticed, nationalism in Galicia is as it is. But don't worry, Your Honor, I suppose you'll be the one who pays attention to the House's lawyers. Can you present a resource of unconstitutionality? Oh, yeah, can you? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to clarify this matter. We are going to follow the powers of the House's lawyers. I also hope that you, Your Honor, will accept what the House says, your House, thanks to which you are a Member. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the defence of the interests of Galicia blocked by the central government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u17	Whenever you want, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u18	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. We've been legislating for a year now, as you remember, and it's possible to balance your political action in relation to Mr. Rajoy's government decisions that are negatively affecting Galician interests. And I'm going to give you some examples. The first is the financing of the unit. As you know, the 2012 cuts, according to the Unit Observatory, suggested that we lost, for that competition so important to thousands and thousands of Greeks, 35 million in 2016 and 152 since 2012. Are you doing any political action to forcefully claim this in front of Mr. Rajoy or his government? The second is self-financing. You have repeatedly criticized the 2009 model. It had to be reviewed in 2014. Did I do anything to make that review happen in time and form? Yes, this year, thanks to our group's initiatives, we agreed on a common position. There was a technical commission but he got back into the freezer. When is this review going to take place which, in your opinion, should suppose more resources for Galicia? Are you willing to take any political action in this direction? Third, the State's general budgets for 2017. We lost in investments for Galicia 440 million euros, after the government's friend since 2012 had stopped spending, despite being budgeted, more than 2,200 million in the Ministry of Development, which means a considerable delay in the arrival of AVE to Galicia. What political action did you develop or plan to develop for this? Fourthly, Mr Rajoy's pact with the PNV, which has provided additional funds for the Basque Country, which is the most certainly the worst-treated community in Spain: 400 million less per year in the coupon and 1.4 billion more for the coupon-related debt; and in addition to boosting the railway infrastructures connecting the Basque "Y" and the logistics platforms of the port of Bilbao to the European freight network. Is there anything for PLSAN and his connection to the port of Vigo, to the dry port, to the line Monforte-Sales of Baths? And alert!, that the demands of the PNV will be greater now for the budgets of 2018. And finally, what political action to lift the government veto to the transfer of AP-9? We have adopted a second bill in the Galician Parliament, also with its vote, eliminating the negative financial consequences for the General Administration of the State, but the government of its party partner, Mr Rajoy, with premeditation, alleviation and repetition, with falsitudes, has vetoed this initiative, a sort of parliamentary filibusterism which has very negative consequences for Galicia. And you, shut up, lying down, dumb, without any political action on this subject. We told him before summer that he had to choose between a powerful response to this or appear as an accomplice, with complicity. They said no. We also planted an extraordinary full, they said no. What alternative political action have they developed or are they planning to develop to confront? Mr. Núñez Feijóo, are you still President of the Galician Union? You're still defending Galician interests in front of the government of your party partner, don't I know if you're a friend, Mr. Mariano Rajoy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u19	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u20	Your Honor, Mr. Leicega, if you ask me if I'm still here, the answer is yes. Naturally, I'm not going to ask you a question about you, because you're a great parliamentarian. But I'm still here, yes; but not because you want it, but because the Greeks decided so. And this is a democratic country, Mr. Leicega. And as a democratic country, you can speak to the president whenever you consider it appropriate. And I'll try to keep up with your questions with the greatest interest. You tell me and you talk about dependency. Your Honor, you are perfectly aware of how they left Spain from the point of view of the public deficit. Aren't you aware of that? Look, here in Galicia they left a poof of 2,200 million euros. That's in 2009. And in 2011, when you lost your election, Spain's debt, Spain's public deficit, was not only stratospheric, but you guys faked public accounts and left a public deficit unaccounted. And it automatically entered the debate on Spain's intervention. You will remember that in the elections of 2012 they said that the elections of the year 2012 here in Galicia were to prevent the Spanish Kingdom from intervening during the election campaign. You depend should give explanations in the House. I'll give you what we did. Yes, Your Honor, they left the country without a potato and still above presumption of dependence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Leicega, when I arrived at the Government there were 14,000 dependents charging, now there are 50,000. At the end of the year there will be 52,000 and the objective of the legislation is 60,000. I anticipate that we will strictly meet the objective of the legislation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you speak of autonomous funding, you speak of autonomous funding, the same party that unilaterally agreed between the Generalitat de Cataluña and the government of Rodríguez Zapatero impose autonomous funding on all autonomous communities. You will remember those press clippings of the Republican Left of Catalonia, who were traveling to speak to the Galician minister Elena Salgado at the season, who said: "We have obtained EUR 1 billion more" —The Republican Left dît—. Well, Your Honor, what did we do in funding? To take this matter to the Conference of Presidents, to propose that health have a specific fund for funding, to establish that dispersal and depopulation continue to have a fundamental value, to agree with you the expert to carry out funding. And I say: Mr. Leicega, the Socialist Workers' Party Spanish is willing to commit a financing system for the autonomous communities? Or do I blame myself for not having a financing system for autonomous communities because the Socialist Party is going to boycott any proposals for funding for autonomous communities? Mr. Leicega, you tell me about the budget. We've just heard the news that the assumptions will not be presented in time and form, that will be postponed, at least, until January. Would the Socialist Party be willing to make some assumptions with the People's Party and implement all this investment financing plan in Galicia? Would you be willing, Mr. Leicega? Would your Members in Parliament and Congress be willing to agree a great deal between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the People's Party so that Spain will not continue to be blocked and have a budget in time and form from January? Would you agree, or while you accuse me of no budget, do you block the budget? Mr. Leicega, I tell you with absolute peace. Look, we're the second autonomous community with more investment per inhabitant, the second. We are the second autonomous community with more investment per capita in Spain. We have 11% of the total budget of the Ministry of Development in Galicia. What are we accused of, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u22	As you will understand, I will continue to defend Galicia, but don't think the president of the Union is stupid. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u24	Yes, Mr. Feijó. This unaccounted public deficit originated from the behaviour of autonomous communities of the People's Party, as it was perfectly accredited below. And what Catalan talked about privacy was Mr. Aznar, who gave 30% of the IRPF to Catalonia, to Mr. Pujol, as you know. [[Applause]] And the Minister of Development who most came to Galicia, to whom the Galician medal was given, was Mr. Francisco Álvarez Cascos — FAC on Gürtel's papers. [[Applause]] That was the Minister of Development who came to Galicia the most, who you know well. [[Applause]] And you know that I would be willing to make an effort with my party to approve state budgets if you're willing to substantially modify those accounts, to remove the adjustments, to raise the minimum wage, so that public health and education will regain their protagonistship, so that scholarships will have the counts they must have. If you're willing to do all this, let's put it in front of the table. But give me the impression, Mr. Feijóo, that he would like to be in Mr. Rajoy's body, but unfortunately he won't be able to be at the moment. On the other hand, with the citizens feeling that there is a unanimous agreement in the Galician Parliament in favour of AP-9, that there is a majority in the Congress of Deputies in favour of transfer, that there is a minority government that does everything possible, using parliamentary arguments — filibusterism, I said before — to prevent that Congress from expressing itself and there may be a transfer to Galicia, are you willing to tell the MPs of the People's Party of Galicia that they vote in favour of what you voted here and make possible that transfer takes place in the Congress of Deputies, and in the Bureau first? Mrs. Ana Pastor, will you listen to me? I don't think so, for now. And what we see is that there's a president of the Galician Council who doesn't speak a word towards his party, a party that says he can't — he's written — transfer to Galicia to AP-9 because it costs 18 million euros a year. That's the definitive argument. And besides, it's accounts that are wrong. What political action does Núñez Feijóo propose to defend Galician interests and dignity? Because he has to be strong and consensual at the same time. I would tell Mrs. Pontón if she was willing to file an appeal for protection. I tell you that, according to the House's lawyers, your Government may also present a dispute of jurisdiction before the Constitutional Court. Are you willing to? And if the legal channels are not possible, if the legal channels do not lead to anything, are you willing to do a political action, are you willing to stand before a unanimous delegation with all the House groups to address the Congress Bureau, Mr. Rajoy, and tell them which positions Galicia is? Are you willing to do something like that? And if not this, what are you willing to do to defend Galician interests and get the AP-9 transfer? That's what you have to tell us here instead of opposing the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u25	Thank you, Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u26	Mr. Leicega, I always follow your parliamentary dissertations with great interest. I tried to answer your questions about dependence, your doubts about funding, your doubts about the assumption. Now he wants me to answer him about the highway. No problem, Mr. Leicega. So the hard part of this matter is to have a broken line, the zigzag of the opposition, in relation to the highway. Look -- I insist -- it's not a minor issue. It's just that I was in this chair here. You were supporting the Government, and you were signing with Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez's ministry the agreement that Galicia had to pay 50% of the shores of the Rande Bridge and the Barcala. I criticized that because it seemed to me that it was a expense we shouldn't assume. Because, with that money, until 2048, we would have to pay 600 million euros, and because that would make us two free bridges. Not only did you listen but you despised that proposal. And now it turns out you're asking me what I've been doing on the highway since I've been president. Look, Your Honor, no matter what I say, no matter what the Official State Bulletin says, and in the Official State Bulletin what Royal Decree 803/2017 says is that, from the date of its publication, Galicia will not pay a euro for Rande's and Barcala's beaches. And what this royal decree says, Your Honor, is that Galicia will save 400 million euros until the year 2048. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, isn't this to applaud? Is this not to be proud that we have achieved this, among other things, in this united Parliament? Look, Your Honor, Galicia has no friends or enemies, Galicia has permanent interests. And, in those permanent interests, I follow. And I continue, Your Honor, because we must defend them with intelligence, we must defend them with dialogue and with prudence. And I continue to defend with intelligence, with dialogue and with prudence. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because at the moment we've got 400 million euros. And then we have the last step: getting the transfer of the highway. If the House's lawyers point to the various legal vehicles, we'll look at those legal vehicles. Not, of course, to present rockets or unconstitutional resources by six Members — who, of course, would not be admitted to the proceedings, but, finally, as long as the banner is made and continue to poison the Greeks, we continue to work. We will continue to work, ladies and gentlemen, because we remember very well what was done during the socialist era. If we remember him with absolute clarity. Look, when the socialists had planned to take the VAS to Benavente and point, we put ourselves against it. When socialists didn't plan to make any connection between Ourense and Vigo, we turned against each other. And now it turns out that socialists are the ones who are asking for AVE. Mr. Leicega, a bit of memory, because, if there is no memory, there is no justice. When the socialists left the benches of the Greek shipyards without a single contract for seven years, we started to work for contracts. I am sorry that the State budget is not going to be presented quickly, because perhaps we could all enter into some important contract for the Greek shipyards. Ladies and gentlemen, while you in Europe opposed yourself and wanted to close all the shipyards in Galicia — tax lease, Commissioner Almunia — what the socialists, the boldest, were saying that Mr Almunia was ungrateful. Look, Your Honor, we didn't go to Brussels, we worked with the unions, with lehendakari, with the president of the Principality of Asturias, and today the Greek shipyards are full of contracts. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, let's keep working, I can assure you. I'm going to go next to my parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u28	...I'm going to go on absolutely according to the transfer of the highway. But if you want to be serious about the highway, they recognize that Galicia today has saved 400 million euros that you would have to pay. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. in Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to give political solutions to political problems
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, a democratic citizen claim as essential as voting is being taken advantage of by the People's Party for an unprecedented cut in public freedoms and civil rights: kidnapping of publications, bans of meetings, demonstrations, conferences... the People's Party is disturbed by the different thought, you are more supportive of one, great and free thought, as far as you can see. And the problem of public freedoms and fundamental rights has a full impact on our country. I'll give you three specific data. First of all, a few days ago the government delegate in Galicia, the one you put on and remove your finger, as a member of the People's Party that he is, threatened to ban the meetings and demonstrations that were objected to in Galicia to support the right to decide. Do you think that this situation is acceptable to you? If not, will you request the resignation of the government delegate? Look, the other day in the Navy the government sub-delegated in Lugo also threatened with sanctions and fines for those people who protested in front of the Burela hospital and against their health reform. Do you think it's too bad we're showing up against their health reform? You look so bad? Why don't they ask for the responsibility of the Government's sub-delegate, which is also his party, the People's Party, the one you vote to put for the Mayor of Lugo after removing Mr. Castineiras as a candidate? Sorry, Mr. Castineiras, headless candidate... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u31	Silence! Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u32	What was freedom of expression like, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u33	Quiet. No, don't dialogue. Mr. Villares, no dialogue. No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u34	One, big and free.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u35	No, don't dialogue, don't dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u36	This is going a lot to tell you what I'm going to tell you right now. This weekend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u37	We're asking the president. Not dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u38	If I can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u39	No, no, but no dialogue. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u40	May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u41	Yes, you can go on now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u42	Look, this weekend in Zaragoza, a group of Spanish ultranationalists — among them prominent members of the People's Party of Aragon — besieged, targeted, rebuked and assaulted people who had gathered, elected public officials from all over the state who had gathered for something as dangerous as asking for dialogue, coexistence and fraternity. [[Prosequent murmuring.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u44	The members of the People's Party seemed so dangerous and so undemocratic to ask for dialogue, coexistence and fraternity, that they took it in bottles with the president of the Courts of Aragon. Do you imagine our Miguel Santalices bottled with him for asking for dialogue, fraternity and coexistence?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u45	Quiet, please! Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u46	For that is what the members of the People's Party of Aragon did to the people who asked for dialogue, fraternity and coexistence. Mr. President, do you support these facts from the People's Party of Aragon? In case you don't back them up, do you condemn these facts of the People's Party of Aragon? You, as a member of the state leadership of the People's Party, will you ask these people to be excluded? On whose side are you, on the side of democracy or of the single, great and free thought? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u47	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u48	Mr. President. Naturally, Your Honor, we will always condemn any kind of attack or aggression that any politician in Spain, any citizen in Spain, any person who expresses his ideas suffers this kind of aggression. [[Applause]] We did it all the time, we did it when we were touched by the attacks of Galician Resistance and we're going to keep doing it all the time. That's why, Your Honor, we don't distinguish. We don't like nationalism, lordship, Spanish nationalism, German nationalism or Basque nationalism or Catalan nationalism. We don't like nationalism. [[Applause]] And that's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that a nationalist like you criticizes nationalism. And it's the first step to approach some posture. But, Mr. Villares, you don't know if you really don't want to ask me about it anymore. But you ask me if I agree that the Government of the State continues to cut down fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, manifestation, assembly, etc. Look, Your Honor, I've been hearing from you some statements that Catalonia's problem is a political problem and that consequently touches on political solutions. You know that, above politicians, there is the Constitution, because the Constitution was not passed by politicians, it was passed by the people in referendum. Yes, for the people, I voted. I don't know if you didn't vote. He didn't vote! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Your Honor. It's pretty good that you didn't have to work with the Constitution. It's noted in all the performances that you do. [[Applause]] Of course, Your Honor! [[Applause]] I know, Your Honor, that you didn't vote for the Constitution, but you worked with the Constitution. Or didn't he work with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u49	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u50	Have you not sworn the Constitution many times and applied it, I understand that every day, during your old profession? Look, without regard to the law, there are no citizens' rights. Without law, there are no public freedoms. Without law, there are no individual freedoms. And without law, there's no democracy. So, Your Honor, the biggest challenge we have in Spain right now since the coup d'état of February 23, 1981 is what is happening with the independent politicians of Catalonia. And rights are exercised in accordance with the Constitution, and that's why I'm surprised that those who violate the Constitution ask for protection from the Constitution who want to violate and who violate every day. So, Your Honor, the referendum is unconstitutional and the referendum is now left without effect. But not because we say so, but because the Constitutional Court says so. The Constitutional Court has just declared the law of disconnection null and void. He has just declared null and void all the rules that develop that referendum law. So, Your Honor, the serious problem we have right now in Catalonia is a problem of disregard for laws, it is an absolute problem of legal stock presented in the Catalan Parliament and it is a problem, Your Honor, of freedoms. And that's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you don't respect freedoms. Freedoms are not what most people say in a parliament. Freedoms are those contained in the texts under referendum, such as the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Galicia or Catalonia. That's why, Your Honor, right now, who are you protecting? We protect citizens from Catalonia. Who are you protecting? Who do you protect with those solems of independence? Look, Your Honor, Article 9 of the Constitution says that the public authorities are subject to the Constitution. Article 10 states that respecting the law and the rights of others is the basis of political order and social peace. Article 17 states that justice emanates from the people and is administered by independent, immovable and responsible judges and magistrates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u52	And Article 118 says that compliance with judgments and judicial resolutions is mandatory. Why don't you comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling? Why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u54	Are you above the laws, above the Constitution, above the Spanish, above the citizens? Mr. Villares, you have the opportunity to answer. You are... no doubt, Your Honor, to clarify the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't worry, Your Honor, the question is easy: do you abide by the Constitution, yes or no? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u56	In three years' time, when In Tide Government, you will have the opportunity to ask the questions you want here in this Chamber. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, his refusal to express the explicit condemnation of the acts of Aragon's PP ceases to express his authoritarian character. Ah!, the PP has two yards to measure: that of the friends who are given bottles, preferably from Vega Sicilia, and that of the others, those who are... [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u57	Quiet, quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet, quiet, quiet please! If not, this will be prolonged. Quiet, please, Mr. Trenor, quiet! Silence! If not, we temporarily suspend the full. There's no problem suspending it. Quiet. Whenever you like, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u58	You have a problem with freedom of expression, eh! Make him watch. Look, friends, bottles, and so on, bottles. That is the authoritarian nature of the President. [[Applause]] He came last week and now he's again asking for the disability of those who don't think like you. One thing is for you: you confuse the legislative power with the judicial power, and it's normal to confuse it, it's normal to confuse the legislative and judicial power of someone who has prepared the judicial oppositions and has not approved them. But it's okay, it's okay! [[Applause]] Look, I explain the difference, and I explain the difference to Wheel too, to see if you learn. Look, judges apply laws and politicians change laws. [[Laughter]] I left the toga to come to politics with these good people of En Marea and change unfair laws for the majority of society. [[Murmurs.]] And you, Mr. President, what did you do before you came to politics? [[Strong murmurers.]] What was he doing? What did you come to politics? We all know about you is that he was walking through the Arousa creek driving a ship of a drug dealer Alberto Núñez Feijoo, of profession, [...]. [[Applause]] What will you do when your political life is over? Where are you going back to? Are you going back to the boat when the political life is over? Look, you're talking about compliance with the law and judgments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u59	Quiet, quiet! Answer the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u60	Mr. Rueda is also interested in this, he's very interested in Mr. Rueda, just like the Feijóo. Look, you are judging these days, Mrs. Prado, the Champion case, the Champion case, which is a case of corruption that affects the People's Party completely. Yes, yes, the President of the Igape, the People's Party, appointed by Feijóo, and the MP Pablo Cobián. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, the prosecutor's office accused all the investigators. And the People's Party, personified through the Galician Union, accused us all less of the people's party's sheep. Did you finish the pen when you filed the complaint? No, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u61	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u62	Yes, I'm done. Why didn't Junta accuse the members of the People's Party and leave them alone in the hands of the prosecutor's office? You know? Yesterday those members of the People's Party recognized their responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u63	Quiet, Mrs. Prado! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mrs Prado, you answer the president, you answer the president, and you will have your time. Please do not interrupt this debate. They're questions to the president and he's got time to answer the president. And then I'll talk. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] I'm done. If they leave me, of course. Look, you didn't order to accuse the members of the People's Party for one reason: because it's just like them, they've been convicted of corruption and you're worthy of representing the most corrupt party in Europe. So, and I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u65	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u66	No, no, let me finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u67	No, no, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u68	The president of the bottles, the president [...], the accomplice president of corruption, is not politically qualified to come to teach this House of Democracy. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Have a nice day, champ!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u69	Thank you. Quiet. I'll ask you to remove that expression. No, forgive me, see if we respect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The President is asking a Member, in this case, to withdraw an expression. There are two options: you withdraw it or I call the order. Choose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u70	I'll explain, and then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u71	No, no, don't explain anything to me. I only ask you to withdraw it, and then it is withdrawn; or I withdraw it and call it by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u72	A gentleman driving a ship of a narco...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u73	No, no, I'm sorry, I'm not taking her away. I call you by order, Mr. Villares. Stand down and you have a call to order. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, it's questions to the president, please. Mr. President, your turn. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet. The President's reply. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u74	Thank you very much. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Villares' intervention must make all the Greeks reflect. There's no need to read it again or reread it again. Look, you're not going to pretend to tell him what you are, because it's not touching. I am the president of a democratic government, and we are in a democratic parliament. You unfortunately need to approve an opposition, the opposition that they keep you in charge. Are you willing to rule out any kind of right to others? He's willing to plot, slander, insult. You already had little prestige as a politician, but from now on, Your Honor, there's one before and one after your prestige as a person. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I understand that it is very easy to answer a question that is to tell a Member in a House whether or not he abides by the Spanish Constitution, the more so if that Member even has been a magistrate—as he likes to be told by journalists, that he corrects them when they put "ex-Mistrate" on them, because I assure you that they have to put "maxistrate in excess." [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Villares, do you really believe in something you say? But the question is, do you really believe in your life in something you did? [[Murmurs.]] The judges are not imposing political responsibilities on anyone, the judges are demanding criminal responsibilities. The public authority that says, knowing it, manifestly unfair resolutions, you know what it is? A crime of prevarication. Who gives illegal destiny to public funds? An offence of misappropriation of public funds. Who disobeys a judicial resolution, what is it? An offence of disobedience. That's what all law students know, except the magistrate in excess Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, you, when you started with this, said -- and I read it textually -- "I only militate in the Spanish Constitution," Villares said. What's changed from a year ago to this part, Mr. Villares? [[Laughter]] What is Mr. Villares supposed to believe? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You added, "I can't hide that in certain environments defining me so causes bad faces, but being independent brings these things." Mr. Villares, ex-military of the Spanish Constitution, ex-military of any basic principle of democracy in Galicia, former mayor of the High Court and former politician. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, you compare the unconstitutional referendum in Catalonia with the referendum in Silleda. It turns out that to make the decision where the consular house is located in Silleda, they've made a consultation. You'd know that consultation was authorized by the Council of Ministers, wouldn't you? Mr. Villares, we are not only surprised by his procedural and legal technique, but by his continuing political myopia. Mr. Villares, the parties you attend, Galicia, for now, can cost you 5 billion euros, which is exactly what you are currently at risk, money from the Greeks, with the independence of Catalonia. Catalonia has 70,000 million euros from the state in debt. We're almost 6% of the population, and they owe us 4,000. Catalonia just forgave 18 billion interest in debt. We're almost 6% of the state, it's 1,000 of us. His independent parties are costing Galicia, at the entrance, EUR 1 billion that we condone in the interests of the Catalan Generalitat, and we have a loan of EUR 4 billion that, under the law of disconnection, will not pay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u76	Mr. Villares, who are you defending? I understand you're defending your seat. But do it with dignity. You can defend a seat and defend the Greeks too, you can defend a seat and you can defend the legality too, you can defend a seat and you can defend the Constitution too. Mr. Villares, not all politicians are like you, nor the vast majority of judges are like you. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u77	Quiet, quiet! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u78	And, therefore, I hope you last long in office, I really assure you, and not only that your party will continue to lose the elections but that justice will continue to win. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr. Castineira Broz asks for the word.]] Yes, Mr. Castineira, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u80	By Article 76...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u81	What exactly is the allusion? I've heard and I don't think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u82	Mr. Villares made a clear reference to my beheading, according to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u83	I heard an allusion, first, by his name, that was not right. [[Laughter]] That's what I heard, but, well, I don't think it's... In any case, he's got a very short shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u84	Very brief. I'm going to explain to you simply how our party works, which democratically elects its candidates, and you can hardly be led astray or beheaded a candidate when he's not appointed. [[Laughter]] And I appreciate your concern for my head, but you worry about it, which may have more problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u85	Thank you, Mr. Castineiras. We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and eight other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Provincial Deputation of Coruña for the creation of a work table with the municipalities of the province of Coruña traveled by the English Way to Santiago de Compostela and the extension of the Way of Santiago to the Fistra-Muxía for its improvement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u86	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u87	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Antonio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. It always speaks of the Way of Santiago as one of the cornerstones of European construction. Europe has made itself a pilgrimage to Compostela. And surely the peoples and the countries that make up Europe recognize the Way of Santiago as that common element that unites us, a space shared for over eleven centuries. Europe made its way to Santiago even before we ourselves realized its existence, its value and its importance. The road was paved at the end of the 20th century in the hands of the associations of pilgrims, teachers, professors, university researchers, and also some politician. In fact, within the Council of Europe it was when a giant step was taken in the universal consideration of the Santiago Way to the so-called "first European cultural itinerary", recognizing in it the fundamental values that this institution advocated, the rights of men and women, diversity and cultural democracy, mutual understanding and cross-border exchanges. Galicia, with a recent stalemate of autonomy, I knew I had before him a unique treasure. The determined wager of the Galician Union more than twenty-five years ago by placing value on Santiago's roads in Galicia is today a reality shared by all political, social, economic, tourist and cultural agents. Those doubts that arose about the Jacob and the Way of Santiago in the 1990s of the last century were that, last. Because today, no one can discuss the importance of the Santiago Road to Galicia, no one can question the benefits it brings to the municipalities by which it talks and to society in general. The polyedric character of the Way of Santiago is reflected in all areas in which the Way manifests itself and influences: the economic aspect, by the transaction of goods and services it generates around it; or the legal field, by the need to order physical space, its functional elements and its protection. A wide fan in which history, the cultural heritage built, the intangible heritage that treasures and the natural wealth by which it talks are part of a whole that cannot be shared, but must be treated as a whole so that its essence and its reason for being are not lost. In these nearly twenty-five years, Santiago's Way has always been on the agenda of the self-government executive, every time the success of Jacob 93 contradicted that the efforts were not empty. He opened a new window and a new stage for the Jacobean routes in Galicia and in the world, and we can say that now we are also in a special moment. From a quantitative point of view, knowledge and presence, the Way of Santiago, no doubt, is the most identifying element of Galicia throughout the world. The number of pilgrims — we all know — that each year they approach Santiago de Compostela does not stop growing in numbers and nationalities: 277.854 pilgrims of 146 nationalities in 2016, by setting an example. But this data must not make us buyers, it must be demanding. The inclusion in Galician Cultural Heritage Act — which was approved in this House just over a year ago — contains a title VI dedicated exclusively to the paths of Santiago, and responds to that requirement of protecting and preserving the inheritance received for generations to come. The approval of the Management and Strategic Plan of the Santiago Road in Galicia — as long as it is two years old — responds to this same demand. A requirement and commitment of the Greek Government to the Jacobean routes, not only of what we could call the physical part of the Way — the trace, the signage, the welcome and the realization of monuments — but also of the social part — the creation of employment, the empowerment of the cultural agenda, the drive to research, etc.. This comprehensive and generalist view is obvious that it cannot fall exclusively within the autonomous administration, as there are multiple public and private agents involved in the achievement of the objectives that are marked by this strategic plan. Among other things, because this plan is a consequence of its time, of the time that is living the Way of Santiago, always in permanent renewal, as a living being who comes back from his own experiences and experiences. Experience shows us the need to establish new frameworks of relationship and new forms of governance for those projects that affect territories where the responsibility of public management is not a single administration and even live with different levels of administration and competence. And I speak of shared responsibility because there is also a great interest and work on the part of the associative tissue — of foundations and other figures — that binds anonymous people who work for the Way. And to this we must add a hot private sector that develops its activity in different walks, as a new engine of the local economy. To try to establish a working table to improve the governance of the Santiago Way with all these vimbies should be of interest to all the groups present here, because it is ultimately about creating synergies, adding up efforts, both material and human or financial. It is about having joint guidelines, unanimous positions and even discussing what is not agreed upon. Finally, it is about opening a dialog channel. This speech serves all the roads of Galicia, of course, but today we are going to focus on two roads that run entirely through the province of Coruña; two singular paths, as already mentioned in the explanatory statement of this proposal not of law. It is the case of the English Way, because it is followed by the maritime pilgrimages of northern Europe, and the case of the Forest Way to the Muxia, for it is a way back and forth, for it is albeit that it is usually spoken of the Forest Way to the Muxia as the one who has its origin in Santiago de Compostela, we cannot forget that there is also a pilgrimage from the Forest to the Muxia towards Santiago with its origin in these two coastal areas. The most recent figures estimate a steady growth of pilgrims on both roads: 9,703 people picked up Compostolá in 2016 after walking the English Way; 3,261 people more than in the 2010 Holy Year; and 6,611 people more than in the 2004 Holy Year. The Path of the Forest the Muxia also increases its pilgrims. The data here has to be gathered from different sources, because to know the reality of the Way, we have to take into account the people who collect the Compostela, but also the people who collect Fisterà and the people who collect Muxia this year. Do you see how necessary it is to create a work table? The data from 2016 reflect that 26,529 people went this way, which implies an increase of 5.72 % compared to 2015. That these two roads speak entirely in the province of Coruña, in our consideration is an advantage, because it perfectly delimits actors to a smaller, more homogeneous territory, and therefore it should be easy to combine all interests towards the same end, which is nothing but the constant and daily improvement of the roads. You might continue to give reasons why we consider it interesting and necessary to create this work table, but, as you all know, this idea — which is already in the Plan Strategic Director of the Way of Santiago — is why we ask the Council of Galicia to be proactive in fulfilling this measure, and we ask you to address the Council of the Crown so that, together with the municipalities concerned, you can try to create a work table to understand that the Deputy is the nearest local administration to the territory and the most appropriate one, because it is the body representing the municipalities in the province. I hope to be able to count on the approval of the other groups represented in this Parliament. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Just remember, in principle, that today forty-two years ago Humberto Baena and four others were shot like the last collection of a franchise that didn't die. [[Applause]] Really, a splendid speech of praise on the Way, but that hides something else. When reading the resolution of his non-legislative proposal, without delay, this humble deputy deduces that they have already spent money on something and they want the deputies, with the Council's money, to support what is solely the competence of the Council of Galicia. Once again, the PP, with its already known municipalist vocation, intends to carry upon the municipalities the good state of conservation and other matters around the Compostela Road. I repeat, you have unique, unique competences on Santiago's roads. The Coruña Parliament already maintains a regular coordination dialogue with the municipalities in the field of tourism and heritage. The result of this dialogue — and more than is being held with Jacob himself — are the projects that have been carried out and have improved signaling, outreach campaigns, presentation of the roads at tourist events, etc. A few months ago, the Crown Deputy organized a program, Spring on the English Way; he has just presented an expo on heritage on the English Way; keep in touch with English administrations for the promotion of the English Way; perform signaling improvements on the Forest Way to the Muxia; edit a Fisterra, etc. Won't they be doing too much? They are well aware that the creation of sectoral tables on matters which are within the competence of the Galician Union must come from the Greek administration itself. The Coruña Deputies would be willing to be part of them, but they would have to know the conditions and commitments to which they will give rise. The normal thing is that the Galician Council first informs the MP and then asks for opinion. The transfer of powers in local administrations, according to the Law on the sustainability and rationality of public administrations, known as the Montor Law, can only be carried out with the transfer of budgets intended to meet the costs that the assignment represents for the administrations that take them. Can you explain to us whether at those tables they want to make money or whether they want pagans to be others? What's not to be received is that the People's Party is trying to escape the problems, or its inability, and move it to the deputies. They confess that Coruña has a taste for it, eh! They want you! [[Murmurs.]] Well, in this case the Coruña wants to transfer budgetary commitments to those who have no competence. [[Laughter]] You, in your political disgrace, take to the full of the Deputy of the Coruña initiatives on metropolitan transport, on compensation in the case of temporary, the municipal canisters — to put some questions — by trying to make this — the Deputy — take on inappropriate skills to wash your face from the lack of budgetary commitment of the Galician Union to these issues. [[Applause]] The Council of Galicia, in its relationship with the Member of Parliament, should be geared towards taking into account issues which at present assume the provincial entity and which should take sole responsibility for the Council of Galicia. And I put on a case-by-case basis, as regards historical heritage, the management of the Dombatte dolmen; as regards security, the fire parks; on roads, the road map completely abnormally, which makes the Deputy of the Crown assume roads that should clearly form part of the Greek and non-provincial network, by the density of transit and road importance. Issues such as the exclusive competence education of the Galician Union, the Members of Parliament still have training resources; in the field of care both, and so on. In order to end, indeed, there should be a Joint-Deputy Coordination Bureau to address a lot of things — many — but not to put into the duties of the Deputy even more matters that are not of their competence. Do we make a table and talk about the Carballo-Compostela road, plan to Portomouro? Are we talking about the social expenditure of the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, who assume the Deputy of the Crown? Do we talk about the same subject? I don't think so. That's why our amendment is that the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to comply with its legally established obligations and to draw up a special plan to promote the English Way and extend the Way of Santiago to Fisterra and Muxia. It's something different, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Plan Director of the Way of Santiago 2015-2021, developed by the Galician Union itself, contains four objectives, five challenges and four developmental axes and strategic lines. I'm going to stop on three strategic lines. The first, LE1, coordination and administrative organization, says that it sets out action plans to strengthen the competent bodies and enhance collaboration and coordination among them. And in the Plan of Priority Actions, promoting inter-administrative cooperation, it explains that the agents involved are: the Presidency, Tourism of Galicia, which is the coordinating agent; the Councillors of the Galician Union, the Deputies and the Town Councils of the Way, who are leading agents, and the General Administration of the State as a collaborator agent. It also sets out the actions, which are the creation of the Interdepartmental Commission, with an internal regulation, and the creation of the working tables. On Strategic Line 3, conservation and maintenance of the Santiago Road, the priority action plan is road maintenance, signage and road safety on the Santiago Road, and the Santiago Road accessible. And finally, in Strategic Line 7, specialization and quality in the pilgrim care service, the action plans are set to achieve excellence in the pilgrim care. And yet in the priority action plan, Integrated management of the public shelter network is established, improved infrastructure, and the promotion of excellence to the pilgrim care services. Well, the Council of Galicia, as a coordinator, has to date the tables with three of the four Greek deputies, in which we debate on all the roads that pass through the corresponding province. Within the functions of those tables, it is in common with the actions that each member must carry out in exercise of his or her powers. The knowledge of existing deficiencies, the search for joint solutions, the collaboration in the dissemination and promotion of the Way and the development of the operating regulation. With regard to the House of Ourense, we know that they met once again and we do not have any signs of their existence or their programming. In the Lugo Parliament, where tables were set up — as I insisted — for all the roads that pass through the province, three tables have been established. One first, institutional, where the Galician Union is, the Lugo Deputy, and the municipalities where the Way passes. A second table, of experts, for research. And a third table, of associations related to the Way. Even so, in the Pontevedra Deputation, where tables of all the roads that pass through the province are also established, it is represented the Union of Galicia through the Directorate-General for Tourism, the Directorate-General for Heritage and the Xacobeo Administration; in addition to the Deputy of Pontevedra, the municipalities through which the Way passes and associations related to the Way. Today, the deficiencies manifested by the deputies on these tables, or rather, by the members on these tables, come to the same conclusion, and they are: the lack of security at various points on the Way; unsafe routes; deficiencies in the road signage; poor accessibility for people with functional diversity; very poor wifi, speaking in some cases of 80% of the sections in Galicia where there is no free and open wifi; promotion campaigns are not geared together with the deputies and the municipalities concerned; the squares in the shelters are insufficient; the shelters do not have adequate signs for people with functional diversity, such as pictograms for people with autism spectrum, and lack of support from the Culture Council in the municipalities where the Way passes. The Crown Deputy is in a position to form part of this table, but we insist that the one responsible for this table and the one who must take the step is the Council of Galicia as a coordinator established by its own organizational chart of its director plan. As for the English Way, the Crown Deputy has made a number of very important initiatives, while the Galician Union announces 2017 as the Year of the English Way without repairing the major deficiencies that still exist today, which does not seem the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u94	In the case of the Coruña Deputy, he presented the spring campaign on the English Way, improvement actions that have matched EUR 114,000, in which an analysis and awareness is made for the recovery of natural spaces; a study of the improvement of accessibility in the various stages and programs for the removal of architectural barriers; the use of new technologies for signage and orientation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u96	...with interactive platforms of the QR code. I'm done, Mr. President. Work done in the provincial press itself to promote the English Way; exhibitions and participation in Fitur together with the Galician Union. So — I insist — the Galician Union is available, who has to act is the coordinating agent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u98	...and to establish, as in the rest of the Members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u100	...that are all the strata that pass through this province. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the floor, for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Merlo Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u102	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Strategic Plan of the Way of Santiago 2015-2021 already envisages ways and mechanisms to develop these tasks that are being requested today in this LNP. Strategic Line 1 sets out action plans to strengthen competent bodies and enhance collaboration and coordination among them, promoting channels for the participation of the associative tissue in the management policies of the Path. Strategic Line 2, in point 2.1, contemplates and sets as an example one of the pathways to develop precisely the plot of Muxia-Fisterra, among many others. Strategic Line No. 3 sets out action plans for the coordination of the maintenance and maintenance services of the Santiago Way in relation to its layout, its related territory and the set of assets that compose it. Our group is not quite clear what you want to value this initiative. We think it might be a way of detecting some disillusionment on the part of the Tourism Council and they're giving it a boost with this initiative to do what they're committed to, which is a good indication that they're doing their work; or, on the other hand, they have other different intentions, such as trying to record or load the work that would have to be developed by that advice to other administrations. In any case, we'll take it as a sort of self-criticism, because it becomes clear, as the other groups have already exposed and how I'm exposing myself right now, that everything you're asking for here is already contemplated in the Council's own Strategic Plan, and therefore we understand that they're not doing their job. We think that we must also give a boost to these kinds of issues and tell them to do what they've compromised themselves. If they committed themselves to developing a series of initiatives in an ambitious strategic plan, they would do it themselves. And we agree that it is of interest that these objectives committed by the Government of the PP are being met. I'd like you to explain in your second speech how they want to compose that table, which is part of the proposal, because what you're sketching here is already said in the Strategic Plan. So, the proposal that adds more? How do you want to compose that table? What skills do they want to give you, beyond dialogue? We are in favour of all tables that facilitate dialogue, fraternity and policy development that contribute to the benefit of the common, but we lack that part of what kind of table they want to make. Like what they did in the other provinces, in the other deputies? Do you want to give him other components? Who will execute the rest of the budgets, if any, to develop all these action lines that are contemplated? That's what I'd like you to answer to to to determine the direction of our vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Merlo. Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez has the floor by the non-legislational panel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u104	Thank you, President. I shall begin by answering Mr Merlo for being the last intervention. Indeed, Mr. Merlo, I have already said in my intervention that it was one of the lines that formed the Strategic Plan of the Galician Tourism Agency. It's not counseling, it's not general address, it's an agency, it's for your knowledge. And I also said it in a good tone, because precisely what I didn't see here was to criticize the performance of the Crown Deputy, which I could. And it could be because the Galician Tourism Agency, in order to make that measure effective, came into contact with the Crown Deputy in 2015, and the Crown Deputy is neither expected nor expected; so today, elegantly, we came here to tell the Galician Council that if you would please go back to the Crown Deputy to see if we have much more luck this time. Because, Mr. Cruz, the Union does not abdicate its powers, for nothing; neither does it abdicate its powers nor ceases to invest, nor does it want to charge the municipalities, which we know perfectly well how their financial situation is. Believe the thief that everyone is in his condition, Mr. Cruz. What are you defending here? Your partner's performance, Mrs. Goretti Sanmartín, Vice President of the Crown Deputy? Because it turns out that now, in your opinion, the Crown Deputy is an exemplary administration. But weren't you the ones who wanted to make the deputies disappear? What are we left with, Mr. Cruz? [[Applause]] The Galician Union itself is assuming a lot of the competences that you know perfectly well that they have exclusively the municipalities, such as fire prevention, emergencies, and we could put many more examples. Unfortunately, we cannot accept his amendment. First, because it falls by its own weight. And secondly, because it's even more myopic than our initiative, because you replace this amendment with a plan exclusively for promotion, tourism promotion, which means you have a very reduced vision of the Santiago Way. On the PSdEG amendment, Mrs. Rumbo, I have to tell you two things. On the one hand, that we would be willing to reach agreement on point 1, but on the rest, Mrs Rumbo, unfortunately, we cannot reach any agreement because you know perfectly well, because you have the data, which gave you the director of the Galician Tourism Agency himself in the past Commission 6th, all that is already being done by the Council of Galicia on these issues. As it seems to them not to be clear, and to know all the Members of this House, I would like to tell them the same information. Investment planned on the English Way for 2017, €1.4 million, for performances of improvements in signaling, indicators, motorcycles and also schemes that are in poor condition. A new hostel in Oroso, with which we will have, at the end of this achievement, 179% more squares than in 2010. Cultural programs such as Living the Way, and educational and cultural activities. [[Applause]] All of this was told to you at the 6th Commission last week. And they didn't tell you what I'm going to tell you right now: the investments of the Forest Way to Muxia. On 15 September, the actuating document of the proposed project was signed for the improvement of packaging and signalling amounting to EUR 515,532.73.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u106	You have to add the forecast of an investment of 328,000 that will be agreed with five municipalities, with the five municipalities that have their plot in the worst state, which are Muxia, Dumbria, Ames, Fisterra and Black. How many are from the PP? Oh, none. That's too bad! Clearly, the Galician Union is fulfilling its obligations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u108	It's obvious, it's obvious, ladies. And what I don't understand is these reluctances, when these tables are already running in other provinces, which is stealing that these roads — if the Crown Deputies don't really get to work on this — can enjoy a reality that exists in other provinces, which is dialogue. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. We now turn to the cumulative debate on non-law 15416 and 16054, items 5.6 and 5.7 of the agenda, in accordance with Article 162.2 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the impulse of the Government of Galicia of the constitution of a special commission for the analysis of the original file corresponding to the prayer of the palace of Meirás a Franco, as well as the search and presentation of the procedures necessary to recover its public title G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and fifteen other Members, on the realization by the Council of Galicia, in collaboration with the universities of Galicia, of a legal study of the possibility and mechanisms that allow, while respecting the prevailing legality, to incorporate into the public heritage the property of the towers of Meiras, known as the palace of Meiras, without cost for the citizenship of Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u110	These non-law proposals were amended, number 17386 and number 17385 of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, and 17389 and 17388 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Angeles Cuña Bóveda. At the Bureau meeting on September 25, tell them that this amendment has been accepted, except for the letter (a) at all its points, and points 1 and 2 of point (b) for not keeping consistency with the text of the non-lawful proposals of the amendments. Assemade suggests that they form part of the explanatory statement for the alleged formulation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u111	To formulate, therefore, the non-law proposal, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was talking to my fellow Mr. Torrado that I'll try to be shorter than you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u113	Yes, it's worth more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u114	...in this exhibition. We bring to the House again an initiative on the palace of Meirás, which is still on the property of the Franco family; a clear injustice which has also shut up in Greek society. This is an issue that matters to society, we're seeing it all the time in these last days. The fact that women's towers Emilia Pardo Bazán remain in the hands of the family of a dictator responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths in this country, and responsible for the blackest period in our history, matters to society, and the debate that has taken place has opened a very interesting process of collective memory, putting in common, absolutely spontaneously, continuously, memories of the people who were able to live the policy of Peace and their families, receivers in many cases of the story of injustice. It is therefore an issue that he has stuck in Greek society, surely as a symbol of all the tragedies and horrors suffered throughout that long night of stone. It's a subject, in addition, that causes indignation and scandal; a democratic anomaly with which socialists believe that we must end. Of course, for the socialists, as I believe that for the vast majority of Galician society—at this moment even Spanish, because the subject is also exceeding our country to reach the rest of Spain—the property, on the part of the Francos, of the palace is absolutely illegitimate, and not because we say it, but because there is multiple documentary evidence to think so; beyond the common sense, because we all believe that there can be no volunteerness in a donation of money, of lands, when it is done to give it to the general that he directs a coup d'état in the full civil war, with republican legality abolished and when every day they appear dead in the citadels and shots in the carpets of the cemeteries. So the common sense already says that here what we can talk about now, in addition to the police, of coercion, is really a war boot, which is what all this was. [[Applause]] Look, historical research clearly says that it was Franco who wanted this property, because he had all the characteristics that could give him that symbolology that he wanted to adopt, and, among them, a false hall of lordship and intellectuality that offered him the fact that this building was creation and a fundamental literary workshop by Dona Emilia Pardo Bazán. That's why he put in place an entire network of influences to do with it, as evidenced by research by Carlos Babío and Manuel Pérez Lourenzo. So, of course, we're talking about a policy, a war boot that's still in the hands of the dictator's family. And all of this, in addition, adapted by the non-compliances of the Franco family and adapted by the appearance of the Francisco Franco Foundation, making the apologization of franchise through the court of Meirás, leads us to think that it is absolutely necessary for us to find among all a solution to this problem, that we find among all a solution that ends that injustice and this democratic anomaly which means that the peace or towers of Meirás are in the hands of the Franco family and that we find a way to reverse this property in the people of Galicia, which is really who paid the palace. And, therefore, we present in this non-law proposal what we consider to be a method or a solution that can be assumed by all groups of this House: the creation of a special commission where the Council of Galicia, the Parliament of the Crown, the Town Hall of the Sada, opening the door that can be part of this commission all those institutions or associations which the commission itself considers necessary: universities, other associations... that is, opening the door to which it is bigger. This committee we propose has a number of advantages. One of them is that it is absolutely plural: plural in the administrations that are within it, plural because there are all the administrations that have something to do with this whole policy — in 1938 we referred to ourselves — the Deputy and the Council of the Crown, and also politically plural because they are through these institutions represented all the political parties that we are here. So it's a plural commission. And it is a commission that would have as its mission to lead the launch, of course by experts, of an important number of experts that will be required, a historical-legal study to achieve a solution, a procedure, which leads us to conquer the main objective, and is that the peace of Meirás returns to the people of Galicia, that we can make it public domain, taking into account, of course, our legislation, but also taking into account — because we have to expand, we believe, the ban — all the European legislation on this matter and also taking into account the examples of other countries that have also lived, unfortunately, the problems and periods of their history led by dictators. In this case, it is paradigmatic the case of Germany and the properties usurped to the Jews, which Germany has found a way to return them to its owners. So I think we have to contemplate all that legislation, and then, if this committee of experts can't find a solution to return the palace without assuming the payment of a single euro by the Greek society — which has already paid for it — then that they look at what legislative changes have to be made so that we can achieve that goal. I think that's absolutely necessary too. We can't just stop looking for a procedure with the legislation we have. We have to look for the changes that lead us to that goal; to that goal, which, I insist, is to end with a historical injustice that can no longer be maintained in a democratic society. Today a written media headline says on its headline that Galicia wants to prove that the transfer of Meirás has been forced. Well, I think we are currently offering a formula that includes everyone, which we believe can be voted on by everyone and which would lead us to seek that solution. A formula that would unite us all in the face of the injustice that is taking place, because we consider it to be a problem that cannot be solved by itself either the People's Party, the Marea Party, the BNG or the Socialist Party. We have to find among all that solution. In this sense — I am not going to have time to talk about it in full — this non-legislative proposal presented by the Socialist Group has been amended by the Nationalist Block Galego and by En Marea. I believe that we can come to a transaction, and I offer that possibility of transaction, because I believe that those amendments, on the one hand, do not nullify at all what is the basis of our proposal or that there is this plural commission — the more plural, the better — that integrate all these administrations — that for us is basic — and also seek out the legislative changes, and, on the other hand, introduce other subjects that have already been discussed here and in which I think we all agree. This commission is neither against nor incompatibility with the Committee on the Return of Peace, which is increasingly forming with more and more associations, because each one has its own work and each other has its own importance. They're not incompatible at all. And then there are another series of topics that were discussed here, where I think we all agree, which we also ask for, and where even the People's Party said it agreed, how to condemn the Franco Foundation on visits and legalize that Foundation. I think we all want those ideas. So I think we can agree on the amendments that this proposal has, which are from BNG and En Marea, and which are assumed by everyone. In the next shift I'm talking a little more about this and the People's Party's proposal, because, when it's accumulated, I have to do it in the next round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u116	Good morning, Mr. President. Today we are debating together two non-law propositions, one of our group, the People's Party, and another of the Socialist Group, which have a goal, which is the recovery for the public heritage of the palace of Meirás. They are certainly very similar; they coincide in the objective, which is to recover the palace of Meirás for the public heritage, and coincide in the middle, which is to do it through a legal and historical documentation that proves that this can be integrated into the public heritage... by the way, the same as it is doing, that is, with the support of the Popular Municipal Group, the Town Hall of Santiago in relation to the figures of Master Mateo, who is trying to recover the Town Hall and who are also in the hands of the Franco family. And we also agreed on the instrument with the Socialist Group: a commission of experts that legally establishes and within the law as one can recover for the public the palace of Meirás. Within the law, of course, it means you can modify the laws, according to our legal system. There is a very big difference between doing so by fulfilling the laws, even if there is to reform a law, certainly, that to take the assault of a legal asset without an enabling title. So changing the law is not going to be a problem, either, since the commission is not as plural and technically qualified as possible. It will be the experts who will tell us if there is, therefore, any other way out of the reform of some law. How are we taking this debate? Except for Mrs Cuña's appreciation in the past — which I am grateful for — we are having this debate as a result of the fact that in the past it was not intended to deal with the People's Group a way out of this line that the Socialist Group and the People's Group are now bringing to the House. And I say, except for a mention by Mrs. Cuña, that I personally thank you, I mean that the attitude of the opposition on this issue was simply frustrating. We enter into this debate with three principles, which are: first, that of the victims of franchise; second, that democracy is with regard to what the minority thinks, but also, of course, with what the majority thinks; and third, with regard to the legal rules, from the Constitution, through the Statute, to the administrative rules which set out how the breach of access to a good of cultural interest which democratically the autonomous community has been given. [[Applause]] And we did it with a clear philosophy, which I summed up in a sentence from a journalist, a literate, who said what it is about, in this generation, removing the debris from the souls. A phrase that represents the intention of our group to address these issues by seeking that what happened in the past does not condition the capacity of coexistence, of covenant and of social peace in the present and in the future. However, others preferred to use half-truths, falsehoods, posterities or lies. And surprising things have been said here. The spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block took advantage of something that happened in 1938, in the midst of civil war, to say that there were vices of origin in the current democratic system. He also said that when the People's Alliance was founded, the compromisers shouted, "Franco, Franco, Franco," which is absolutely false and will not remind me what the Yellow People's Union was doing in those transition years and what things I was playing at. Because I got my face through the block just to separate the block from at those moments of the transaction, some of them were doing out of the block. Mrs. Pontón looks at me and she knows it. [[Applause]] He accused us of dealing with frankism for not having already integrated the palace of Meirás who was the general director of Culture and Cultural Heritage for four years of the Bipartisan Government. Is there any difficulty and it doesn't depend on a willingness to defend anyone from that family? And we were asked to bury frankism. I, frankly, am one of those who thinks that, fortunately, frankism is well buried. Some will debate those who defend the Franco Foundation and want to resurrect frankism. We, of course, will not contribute to the resurgence of franchiseism, however mediatic it results. [[Applause]] The representative of the Socialist Group also told us about ambiguity, despite the fact that this group explicitly condemned frankism in this House three times — in 2008, 2014 and 2016 — and despite the explicit condemnation of the president of the board of the statements of the representatives of the Franco Foundation. He said we were a scared government, when it's the only government that has sanctioned the owner of Meirás for not having opened it to the public. And even said President Feijóo refused the opening of the palace by statements he made in 2007, when the BIC statement, which allows access to the palace, is from the year 2008, with which, at last, we see how this topic is carried out. They criticised us not to talk about dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are two PNLs voting. The only one who talks about 40-year-old dictatorship is ours; the one in the Socialist Group doesn't even quote that Franco is a dictatorship in its resolution. That is the debate we have. And by the way, you read what the Bipartite did, which neither speaks of dictatorship, but of the old head of the state of Spain, when BIC declares the palace of Meirás. Finally, we were told here that we had not condemned in Madrid some judgments that, by the Law of historical memory, were already declared unfair and illegitimate in relation to Companies, something that, by the way, the same ones who proposed it the other day had already taken him to Congress in the past legislation. Do you know what the representative of the Socialist Group said in that debate to oppose the one who voted against the PP? The representative of the Socialist Group, Mr. Torres Mora, told those who proposed this — that you vote on us when we do not vote —: "They confused themselves with being anti-monarchical, being left-handed with being radical, being democratic with being populist, being patriotic with being nationalist and being Catalan with being anti-Spanish". We don't confuse and respect a Republican, and that doesn't mean we're antimonarchs. You can be left-handed without being radical, you can be democrat without being populist, you can be patriot without being nationalist, and of course you can be Welsh without being anti-Spanish. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, whom would we benefit from today not agreeing on the recovery of the peace of Meirás, when we agree on the objective, in the midst — and I refer to the Socialist Party — and on the instruments to achieve it? We agreed on everything. I have the impression that the only ones who can benefit from the division of the House are, precisely, the owners of the palace of Meirás, who instead of having in front of the whole of the House of Wales, for some questions that I have just explained to them, I have not just understood... in any case, we have the unique opportunity to have a resolution that will facilitate the return of the palace of Meirás to the House. We, from the very first moment, have sought consensus, even making an amendment in the whole past, and today we are open to compromise with any of the amendments, because the objective is to bring this House's decision together. I wonder: if it is so clear that the only beneficiaries of the division of this House are precisely the current owners of the palace of Meirás and if it is about this initiative to make a repair of historical memory, and we are going to fail to reach unanimity, who is against that unanimity, who is benefiting from democracy and the repair of historical memory or, on the contrary, the dictator's family? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u117	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u118	Good morning. Indeed, Mr. Puy is right, this is not the first time this issue has been dealt with in this House. And there is a common denominator in all debates: that the People's Party has always voted against any initiative to recover the peace of Meirás, always, in all debates, in the fifteen days ago and on every occasion this issue has been brought here, to Parliament, either in full or in committee. [[Applause]] In that they are perfectly coherent. I think we have to ask ourselves a question, and it's: why are we talking about the return of Meirás' palace eighty years after it was stolen and forty-two years after the dictator's death? How could stolen goods remain in the possession of the Franco family and still be sucked and laughed at by the people of Greece? How can this happen? It's inconceivable in a civilized country. We are -- and we have already said it -- in the face of a historical anomaly, in the face of a democratic shame; a shame that adds to the complicity with frankness. Yes, Mr. Puy, the complicities with frankness also in the Transition, and of that the People's Party and People's Alliance know much, because seven founders of the Popular Alliance were ministers of franchise; therefore there is a natural continuity there. And Meirás is also the symbol of the impunity that the dictator's family continues to enjoy, including the noble titles of the lordship of Meirás and the dukedom of Franco, which are a real shame for a democracy. Meirás is the symbol of the policeman and terror of frankism, but it is also the symbol of rot, of the entules, although it must be removed from the 1978 regime. We insist that it is a question of decency and democratic quality, of defending values and rights, of respect for historical memory, that you do not have and that you cannot postpone for longer. We have a duty and responsibility to resolve this issue. And once this is recognized as a starting point, we can enter the debate on property or legal matters. And it must be recognized, of course, the truth, the truth of a policeman, of a robbery perpetrated by an illegal regime, out of a coup d'état; a policeman and a robbery perpetrated by a criminal, mob and corrupt organization, which was the one that stole Meirás and all the other goods we're talking about. This is already enough for the annulment and the reversal, not only of the theft of the Meirades towers, but of all the other goods, of the sculptures, of the lands, of the lands, of the suns, also that they stole, or of the Cornide house, and not only in 1938. We're not only talking about the year 1938, it was a robbery and a cop who was still in time throughout the dictatorship and then also legalized with that impunity. It is therefore an example of a book of enrichment based on corruption, extortion and pillage, diversion of large amounts of public money for the benefit of the dictator's family. And now the People's Party has agreed late, badly and the trail and comes with a limited proposal, which has many errors of approach, many inaccuracies and which is an opportunistic maneuver, when there is already a social cry, a social pressure, in favor of solving this issue. Bring us this proposal when, in fact, you opposed yourself on your day to the processing of the BIC, that Mr. Feijóo said it wasn't a palace, that it was a tower, and that there were many other assets to declare BIC. Well, yes, they opposed each other, and that's why they have an absolute lack of credibility. You are now set up in a position of appearance, but for all these years you have refused to support the initiatives that have taken place about Meirás, they have continued complicity with the Franco family and with the Foundation, with the help of 53,000 euros to open the palace of Meirás, with absolute permission not to open the palace, with a position contrary to the policies of historical memory, with hostility and contempt for the victims. They do not come here to say that they respect the victims of franchiseism, because they have made numerous decisions that offend the memory of the victims and their families, from the elimination of subsidies, from the end of exhumations, from saying something as absolutely infamous as Mr. Hernando said that families moved for economic interests, turning San Simón Island into the island of forgetfulness or suffocating the university project Names and voices, which was precisely investigating franchiseism. And now you want to send the university an investigation when they suffocated that project! [[Applause]] This initiative is a counter-programming initiative, from boycott to an initiative that already exists, which has taken the Deputy of the Crown with other institutions, with other municipalities, to create a set-up for return. These institutions have the responsibility and obligation to take this initiative, because they were a fundamental and very active part of the entire policy process. You say, in the case of sculptures, that acts the Town Hall of Santiago; in the case of Cornide, I suppose you will say that you act the Town Hall of the Crown. Well, in the case of Meirades, who has the first obligation and responsibility to act is the Deputation of the Crown, the Town Councils of the Coruña and Sada, all the municipalities that were a fundamental part of that policy. It has also been approved by the Deputy of the Crown to establish a commission of inquiry to request the return of that heritage, and also an issue that we consider important, which is to make clear what the future use of the palace will be — that this issue is not of interest to you — to turn it into a space of historical Greek democratic memory and anti-Francist struggle. We want this to be in the agreement as well, as we want you to see other issues that you are facing in the proposal for an agreement, they are not interested, even if you include them in the explanatory statement, such as the conviction of the Franco Foundation. We want this Parliament and the People's Party to condemn the Franco Foundation. What's the problem with condemning the Franco Foundation? And that they condemn the statements of the apologetics of franchiseism, that they avoid, as it is happening, that the guide of the visits to the palace of Meiras is a repressor, a repressor police. We can't afford this, nor do we use those visits to make the apologization of franchise. We call on this Parliament to call for the illegalization of a foundation that apologizes genocide and franchiseism. As a result, the aim is to recover Meirás and all the spoils — not only Meirás, all the spoils — as was done with the estate seized by parties and trade unions. We need to get rid of frankism, bury it definitely and drive it out of Galicia and democracy, because they don't have a place here, and those who have legitimacy and obligation to do so already told them it was those institutions. The Galician Union must of course collaborate, it must also participate in that process, in addition to those initiatives that are already under way. It is a matter of historical justice, of defending the dignity of the people of Greece, of democratic decency. And it would, of course, be a tribute to the victims of frankism and to the people who fought against the dictatorship to put a definitive end to franchiseism, pacts with frankism and impunity enjoyed by the Franco Foundation and the Franco family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u119	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. The issue is absolutely priority, crucial and important. It's never too late. Actually, it's not understood how after 80 years this is not solved in a country called democratic. Well, I'd like to start with a story, the shortest in history, which everyone will know: when he woke up, the dinosaur was still there. Everyone who thinks about the dinosaur. When I think of the dinosaur, I can think of franchise and think of the Francisco Franco Foundation. We've repeated, and we've already said on other occasions that there are several steps. We share that steps are taken, steps forward, steps to restore truth, justice, and to repair so much outrage, so much massacre, so many victims without exhuming. We have already expressed it, because we consider, firstly, that the Francisco Franco Foundation must be illegalized; secondly, that management must be changed, that it should be given to the Town Hall of Sada; and, thirdly, that they must either return or the towers, as Mrs. Emilia called it, or the palace of Meirás, as it was later called, to be the heritage of those who have the absolute right. Let me say several words, which are not words, these are concepts that are going to emerge in these five or six minutes that we have of time: negationism, resigning what is the general interest, raising the veil, spoiling the war, the justice of the vice... If you want to pass the page, if someone wants to pass the page, what you have to do first is rewrite it with the truth. Symmetrical responsibility, yes or no? Compromise the law? Gift, theft or what? Historical personalities. A rose is a rose and a massacre is a massacre. Why is the first step we propose and we want to illegalize the Foundation? Because it violates the legally recognized right to moral reparation for those who have suffered the illegitimate regime and have been victims of repression by institutions that are contrary to law. This has to be accepted; until this is accepted, there is no step and everything about it is relative. The victims of franchise have been seen. The Francisco Franco National Foundation is a negationist, and that's because, in fact, no institution, as far as democracy is concerned, has developed a policy of democratic historical memory that allowed the nesty qualification of military rebellion in July 1936, of the later genocide of the Frankish band, attacking democracy. And we are also against the Foundation because it exalts — it is its principle — the figure of the coup dictator. It's against the Constitution, it's against the foundation law, so we're talking about re-signification. What does it mean to redeploy? What politics and legally the expression "general interest" must mean what it is, and the Francisco Franco Foundation doesn't mean it. Then, following our argument, it's not enough for the propriety of the owners, as you say. And words are not innocent, words mean. It's very important, when you do a storytelling, as established by the... It's spoken of by two historical personalities of great notoriety, it's true: an illustrated woman, feminist, cult and Meirás towers, an oven of creation; and another historical personality of great notoriety, yes, chief of state—of you. It was a dictatorship!, forty years of polio and theft, currently allowed, dictator. Yes, they're two figures, but they're quite different. They're not even. They also speak of the gift, of prayer, of gift. No, it wasn't a gift; it was spoil, extortion, theft. In fact, it was a war boot. I hadn't finished the war in 1938, it was a war booty! The Franco family has no legitimacy at all. That's why when from Sada the family is said to be declared ungracious is logical and has absolute coherence. How will a family who has a fruit estate of the sledge, of cruelty, of looting, of the commissions, who are going to hit the gun by daring, forcing, pressuring over 200 families, who have not yielded, who have not given in lands, who have been absolutely pressed? This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a trivial matter, this is a matter of the highest international level of human rights. And, then, we have to get wet, take sides. And when you've been talking and you're constantly talking about complying with the law about independence, tell me, is it collective guilt that happened in the 36th War? Thousands of military loyal to the Government, Members and a few Members, mayors, conciergemen, unionists, intellectuals, officials, teachers and teachers, militants, supporters of democratic parties, judged in very far-reaching proceedings, unjustly; innocent people brutally murdered. What are we talking about? We're talking about complying with the law. They and they were complying with the law, it was a constituted government. The first time women were able to vote in this country in universal suffrage was in 1933. That is the reference date for democracy. It's 1936, it's not war, franchise. When we speak of justice in the opposite way, we speak because they — the removed ones — condemned the rebellion to whom paradoxically defended the prevailing legality. The mere fact that he had not supported "the National Movement with concrete acts the serious passivity" was sufficient reason to end up in the wall, in the crib or spend decades between the bars under torture, under misery, with theft, with adoration. Well, most of the population -- and this justifies it a lot -- has been brought up -- and I too, I'm 60 years old; young people can have less memory, but we're clean, we're not straight daughters, but we live the consequences -- keeping the idea of symmetrical responsibility, of conflict between two Spains, of reinforcement of draft policy and new account.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u122	1 million citizens died, there was violation of human rights, abuse and violence. The regime was genocide. You have to rewrite the story before you go through the page. Legally there are many measures that can be taken, but lack of political will, there is no agreement. If you have a consensus, wonderful. We're going to support the PSdEG initiative, even though we think it's short. It's a step, we have to take steps. And we'll keep insisting. Actually, what was done with the Law of 2007 wasn't... there was no denial...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u124	There must be a change of law — it is obvious — and for that there are parliaments, to change the laws. I wish we could change it here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u126	...in this country, at once!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Puy, I didn't know we were going to turn this into a replica of what we said in the previous debate. I don't have time to tell you anymore... No, but I'll answer you. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I have no time to tell you more than I keep every word I have said about the attitude of the People's Party around the historical memory; each and every one. Moreover, I tell you, I feel very honored to be able to say these things and to keep them in the name of my party, of my group, of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] And I keep every single one I said about the Government's attitude, too. [[Applause]] Mr. Puy, your initiative and our initiative have nothing to do with it, neither have they the same objective — I've told you — nor have they the same method. They're not the same, much less. You say the Board is doing a legal study. We say it is a plural commission of Union, Parliament and Councils — plural — to study, not only legal, to get the reversal of property, but to change the legislation, which you say nothing about. So it has nothing to do with each other. And here is a situation of parliamentary use, in parliamentary ways. You and I can't negotiate because you don't have my amendment and I don't have your amendment. So you can negotiate with BNG and En Marea, who have submitted their amendments, and I'm trading a deal with them because they're the amendments I have. Of course, then, you can't say we didn't reach an agreement because we didn't admit... because the other groups don't accept your proposal. [[Applause]] If you want to reach an agreement, you are the one who has the obligation to try to reach an agreement with all of us and use the amendments of the other groups. I offer a transaction to the groups I can offer it to. By the way, I understand that you can join her because, to see, Mr. Puy, I offer that transaction to everyone; to you I cannot officially, but you can join this. Do you have a problem with rejecting the Franco Foundation's management of visits to the Meirás palace? Because the counselor said he didn't like that. So I say you won't have a problem with refusing that. And in insisting on illegalization and condemning manifestations of the apologetics of franchiseism? Do you accept these Foundation demonstrations? I don't think so. Is there any problem with joining the board for the Return of Peace of Meirás, where is the Deputy, where is there...? By the way, Mr Bará, it's not the same, and they're perfectly compatible, I think, one by one. Do you have a problem? Do you have any problems with which, after having succeeded — which unfortunately it will take us to do so — if you promote your conversion to a outreach center and also the recovery of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán's figure? Is there a problem with all this? Well, you see, as I can't offer you any negotiation -- but I said I wish we had all had a common position -- you offer a negotiation to the opposition groups, to whom you can. You negotiate — which you don't seem to want —. You want to impose yours. I don't want to impose my own, I want a negotiation with all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u130	And I want to look for a plural formula—Mr. Puy, plural, not directed by the board, but plural—of all administrations to achieve the reversal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u132	And your proposition — as it were — and ours, Mr. Puy, have nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u134	Mrs. Cuña, I agree with you that we are here today on an important issue — and we, in particular — to prevent a tragedy like that you have described ever again in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u135	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u136	Well, if a massacre doesn't look like a tragedy to you, then you'll say... but to me yes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The nationalist representative said he was already studying, and that's why Santiago is studying and making a legal report, that's why you support Santiago; and yet when you consider this seriously here, at Junta, you go through. And it's so much studied, it's so clear and it goes so far through the book that it's already seen that in four years you've been in that general direction and that you could have taken the initiative — which we wouldn't be debating today, because Meirás's palace would be public — they've done nothing but declare it BIC, which I recognize is a first step. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the same way that you, on the other hand, do not recognize that this Board is applying the BIC legislation as such, including the sanctions that you have left in the law and which are the ones that can legally be put on. I say that, being so clear, after twenty-two years of socialist government in Madrid and four of the Bipartite, it is unfortunate that, being so clear, Meirás' palace is not public. Look, we condemn the Franco Foundation; what I think is that Parliament is not going to illegalize any foundations. I do think so. So, urging the Prosecutor's Office can make any citizen, but I think we're pronounced against the illegalization of a foundation, although we haven't shared anything they do or what they say, I think it's risky. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I, as a Democrat, don't go into that game. And by the way, the Franco Foundation was created — if I don't remember — in 1976-1977, and after twenty-two years of socialist government and six of the Bipartite or Tripartite in Galicia is still legal. Therefore, it must not be as easy to illegalize a foundation as the Franco Foundation. [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's -- I insist -- not present. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is a film, Mr Bará, and also Mrs. Spokesman of the Socialist Group, which is called the sixth sense, in which there is a child who walks through the whole film saying, "Sometimes I see dead." I remembered this film, because you come here and it seems that sometimes you see franchisees. They're completely wrong. [[Laughter]] There he is! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Remember how the film ended, what was dead... remember how the film ended: what was dead was the boy and his psychologist, those were the dead. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So we're going to take things easy because you see a lot of franchiseists and you see a lot of frankness and, instead, you're in front of the Town Hall -- so you've been going through the door for many years -- the biggest Frankish shield I've ever seen in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, we're going to work seriously. See if we stop seeing Frankists, we really look at Frankists, and we know who they are. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we agree that this is an example of justice and symbolic reparation; if we agree that we have to make the legal procedures appropriate for the recovery for the public of the palace of Meirás, if we agree in condemnation of the statements of the Franco Foundation and in the visit to Meirás the exaltation of the caudillo, we should agree. And who benefits if there's no agreement? It benefits those who defend the Franco Foundation to visit the palace of Meirás. Look, Mrs. Burgo, if I'm convinced that ours and yours are so similar, I'm willing to withdraw the bill from the People's Party if you let us vote on your original. Look if I'm in favour of voting that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u138	And now it's you, regardless of whether we're talking about any possible modification of your original, regardless of that, you're the one who has to decide whether you see Frankists or want to restore Meirás' palace to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u139	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[Mrs. Burgo López asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Burgo, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u140	... question of procedure. [[Mrs. Burgo López speaks words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you can, since...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u141	Quiet, quiet. Let's see what you ask.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u142	One moment, it's a question. I'm not talking about anything, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u143	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u144	...a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u145	Do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u146	...to Mr. President. I don't have any more shifts, I don't know if you can, since Mr. Puy's finished making an offer that I can't answer because I don't have a turn, I don't know if I have a few minutes of public reply, because we can talk privately, but I don't know how to answer publicly and everyone has the right to know my opinion,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u147	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u148	...on that proposal. Because I want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u149	I understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u150	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u151	I think there's a procedure that we all understand, unless the lawyer corrects me. You can talk, and then you can do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u152	No, no, but I want here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u153	You talk. You can talk, and the deal they make is public. It's the same. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u154	Let's see, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u155	That's what's always done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u156	Mr. President, I didn't know that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u157	Well, but now they're going to talk. You've become public, you have the right to speak, and then you make the deal public.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u158	Okay, all right, that was a question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u159	All right, perfect. We understand the question. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the situation in which the Galician self-schools are located as a result of the labour conflict of the traffic examiner staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u160	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u161	Good morning. As Mr. President of this House is not as flexible as Mrs. Forcadell in the Catalan Parliament, and we couldn't listen to the comrade of the Socialist Party, because we're going to get through...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u162	Don't compare me, please. Just a minute, excuse me. I'm sorry, I don't think so. [[Murmurs.]] There are still differences for now, eh! Please, that's where we could be! [[Applause]] But don't compare me, please. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, on the subject. I know it was a joke, let's get to the point!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u163	I said there were differences, indeed. Don't offend me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u164	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u165	The issue that focuses on this proposal that brings today the Nationalist Block Galego to this plenary address a situation of emergency that we believe this House cannot remain a part of. It's the limited situation of many of the workers and workers of the German auto-schoolers in front of the strike by everyone and everyone known to the examiner staff. As your lordships will know, it was already late in June when this group of traffic examiners and examiners, dependent on the Directorate-General of Traffic, therefore the Government of the State, started partial strike days. These days continued in July, stopped in August, resumed this month of September, and, if nothing changes in the next days, the expectation is that in October, of what we are at the doors, continue and keep these new stops called. First of all, let's be clear, from the Nationalist Block of Wales we want to tell this collective that we understand their reasons, that we respect their summons, as it could not be otherwise, and also that we wish him the greatest success. What these workers and workers are doing, which in any case are criminalized, is simply defending their rights, but not only legitimately defending their rights, but also — you have to say — react to the failure of the Spanish state. We must remember that the collective makes demands that are not new at all. What's more, they're actually claiming compliance with an agreement they had made with the State in 2015 and that the State failed to do so. Therefore, apart from non-compliance, the attitude to this conflict of the last few months we have evaluated it as that of a true statue of salt. They've just been practically looking to the other side, dumping the blame in the Ministry of the Fair, as if the Ministry of the Fair was a paranormal phenomenon that has nothing to do with the Government of the State and that nothing has to do with the same organic structure. They should have thought that because of fatigue, by pressure from other sectors, by pressure from the news in the press, this collective would give up its attempt, but it wasn't. So what I want to sum up with is that, reaching this situation and that there is no immediate exit and that therefore there are many Greeks and Greeks affected, comes mainly from the central government's inability, but also -- you have to say -- from the absolute indifference of the Galician Union, which during these months has done absolutely nothing and evidence that there is also a lack of roadmap. We understand that neither the passivity of the State nor the indifference of the United States when it affects so many people, and more so when responsibility, the structural and final causes, are, in short, the cuts of the People's Party. Let's give an example. Since 2009 there has been a loss of one fifth of the jobs of traffic examiners — almost 1,000, less than 800 — with logical consequences in worsening working conditions, in the worsening of the service, because the lack of staff has not only led to this increase in work, but also to the fact that on many occasions exams are suspended, if the period between them and others is extended, as usual practice. With the economic crisis it is also true that the number of aspirants has been reduced, but it is no less true that the bottom of these cuts is justified only by economic criteria, not by a drop that necessarily leads to that reduction. For example, if, from 2009 to 2013, there was indeed a download, stagnated in 2014 and 2015, and it has already repointed an important way in 2016, with which they had nearly three years of forecast to solve this situation before it happened. Moreover, the situation generated this summer was also warned by both trade unions and professional collectives. In this scenario, therefore, we understand that there is no silence since Galicia and that we must intervene and exercise the political power of our country to seek an exit for various reasons. First of all, it is a matter, as I have already said, which affects many Welsh people, from the consumer perspective as well. Many people who need to get the driver's license, something that in our country already for geographic reasons in some cases is absolutely essential, and also nobody gets away with driving the driver's license is an important plus when looking for a job. In addition, it must also be borne in mind that this situation is generating a dramatic impact on many of the more than 500 schoolchildren in our country. It must be thought that many and many of them are small autonomous, small companies of 2, 3, 4 workers, and this has serious repercussions. We're talking about companies in which, besides the strong era, the time when income increases, the time that allows other months of the year to compensate, is precisely summer, in which many people, not only students, take advantage of this task of getting the driver's license. According to the data we have, the strike in our country was seconded by 70% and somewhat less in the month of September, and they come to sum up the affected groups who, according to their calculations, were suspended for each day of strike between 300 and 400 driving meat tests, leaving more than 6,000 people without examining. It must also be borne in mind that much of this student in front of this paron, in front of the cap that is being piled up, ceases its registration, therefore ceases revenue. Also, many of those who agree to examine themselves do so without refreshing those practices of the driver's license, suspend, and therefore contribute in a vicious circle to increase that large cap of plaintiffs. I remembered, at the end of this initiative, that in the past, when Mr. Economy, Employment and Industry came to talk to us about autonomy, I remembered very much from a gentleman I met this summer who has a small school in a town in Ourense; he's called Louis and he's two workers. It's precisely the story of one of those returned emigrants that we so long for. People who were living outside our community and who came back. He came back, set up a small company and went slowly jumping. But now Louis is absolutely drowned. In two months he did 4 tests, when he should have had at least 12, the last on 4 September, and estimated that until 4 October, until next week, he won't do any more. So most of the summer students have already canceled, but what is not cancelled is the bills of water, light, insurance, rent and so on, which Louis has to keep paying on time, as long as income doesn't come. The situation in Louis is the situation of thousands of Galicians and Greeks right now. Therefore, in the face of this situation, we understand that it is not worth looking elsewhere and saying that it is the responsibility of the State farm, as if it were a paranormal and alien phenomenon, or that it is merely a matter of proceedings. Since the BNG, therefore, let us propose three major agreements to your lords. First. To adjudicate, from the capacity of our powers, tax and economic measures that help these people not to have to close, that allow them to endure a few months longer until there is a solution to this situation and that they can normally restore their examinations. From aid, credit, discount or relief to tax obligations, you'll have to talk about it to the affected sectors, but there's ample possibilities for us to arbitrate measures so that not a single person through this crisis has to close their establishment or bring someone to an end. Secondly, we ask him to exercise the German Government, to blackmail himself at the door of Montoro, if necessary, and to tell him that, if there are tax amnesties for fraudsters, there will have to be tax amnesties for these people who are drowned. Tell him that if last year's State budgets have increased their income, it will be necessary for the next state budgets to be set aside to settle this matter. The squares are created with numbers in hand, not with promises from the People's Party in the press. Thirdly, in view of the fact that we cannot rely on the word of the State, I remember that — as I said at the beginning of my intervention — this situation is generated precisely by its non-compliances, we believe that it is time to demand for Galicia the competences in the matter of trafficking, also in terms of reaching the examiner's staff, also to redefine their functions, to redefine their access and all these issues of which the sector is demanding to speak again. We understand that the situation generated by the management of the examiner's staff is another reason to demand absolutely elementary and strategic competition for our country. This crisis points to the irrationality that competition is not its own. Plus, it's one of the exits that many auto-school associations are already targeting. For us, militarization or privatization are two exits that do not enter directly into this debate, but if we reorganize public management. We ask him to be in this sense ambitious and ambitious and to accept this challenge, because it would not only contribute to not deriving from situations like the ones we are living in, but would also allow us to move forward on many issues that we have pending in terms of road safety and that have already passed through this House at some other time. So — already mentioned, colleagues and colleagues from the Greek Parliament — we understand that there are reasons for us to take a step forward today. For the medium-term future, applying for competence in this area. And also for the immediate one, exercising of the German Government when it is necessary to tension Madrid, and also making available the resources for this emergency, because there are many people in a situation of trouble who are looking at us and we can't let them down. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome and thank the guest panel of traffic examiners and self-schoolers. We would also like to thank the parliamentary groups for their contributions so that they can debate a current problem in this House with knowledge of the facts, with the first-hand contributions made by those concerned. The current situation, since September 4, is of indefinite partial strike by traffic examiners, a fundamental right — we must recognise — recognised in Article 28 of the Spanish Constitution. In the immediate future, the continuation of the partial strike is already announced, which will affect Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays of each week during the month of October. This announcement of the future and this situation of the present, a partial strike by the traffic examiners, has its immediate origin in the situation of the examiners' disappearance by the Directorate-General for Traffic, which has reached unbearable limits. The objective facts that occurred since June 19th, when the strike began, were only two meetings held with the strike committee, in which the Director General of Traffic showed his inability to manage the labour conflict in his general direction. It remains curious, moreover, that he himself acknowledged that the demands of the examiners were fair, and even two years ago he had reached an agreement with the examiners to, among other things, raise the specific complement, which would logically increase his salary, since these are disincentived and unattractive posts. So much so that practically no one asks for this fate. The irrationality of the Directorate-General for Traffic, by failing to comply with the commitments made, is causing uncertainty and serious consequences in the sector. And it doesn't seem understandable or acceptable for DGT to keep this conflict alive by worrying about its serious consequences. It would only be understandable, and not accepted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and in the intention of the Directorate-General for Traffic if he was privatizing a service that would prove very profitable for the National Confederation of Self-Educations, taking into account that the rates raised in 2016 amounted to EUR 114.4 million. And while this happens, with the passivity of the competent institution, examiners, self-schoolers and drivers lose their rights, economic resources and opportunities every day. I agree with the argumentary and with the data provided by Mrs. Presas, the spokeswoman of the BNG, and therefore I will no longer repeat them. The examiners, of course, lose economic resources because of the administration's failure to implement commitments signed, also because they are located at the center of the target socialally, blaming them for this situation. Self-schoolers suffer a drop in activity of around 40%, and are due to proceed with dismissals from their workers or even closures. Aspirants getting the driver's license must either register or not, assuming an overcost in their registration. There are cases in which the situation gets worse, when this achievement of the sheep is linked to a job, so they can have the real possibility or it's because they can't get access to work because of this delay in the achievement of their driving. Of course, the Socialist Group will support this BNG initiative for a number of reasons. First, because we believe that the Directorate-General for Traffic must fulfil the commitments made by the examiners and put an end to this conflict. Secondly, because we believe that it is the citizens' right to obtain the money, and it must be an answer that must be given by the administration itself. Thirdly, because the sector, which has already been punished by the crisis — as Mrs Presas has reflected in her data — needs economic and fiscal measures to drive it. And fourth, because we believe that traffic competitions would be much more effective managed from Galicia. In this conflict — and already to be completed — there is a culprit, the Directorate-General for Traffic, and there are victims: examiners, self-schoolers and citizens. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u168	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u169	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. You'll also welcome the guests to the rostrum. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea will support this initiative — as it cannot be otherwise — to resolve the problem or conflict that examiners and examiners have, the dramatic and urgent situation in which self-schools are found and also to apply for this transfer of traffic powers. I don't understand how we can be in this situation, a situation to which there was no need to arrive — as those who preceded me have already commented — if the Government of the People's Party had fulfilled its word. In 2015, there is this agreement of the Directorate-General for Traffic with examiners and examiners to assume these demands, demands that the director of the Directorate-General for Traffic Qualifies Fair Demands and who continues to say that he is defending them because they are fair. The body of examiners and examiners is relatively small, therefore, from the budgetary point of view it is not an excessive problem for the public archives, nor is it understood how this situation can be achieved. It seems that if you want to humiliate examiners and examiners, because there seems to be no reason to come to this agreement and to get it forward. The examiners and examiners call off strike as the only way to make their situation visible and press for compliance with this government agreement, and after two months — June and July — on strike claiming that the People's Party Government has fulfilled a commitment it has acquired, by not getting even a single reply or a single proposal, now in September again summons the strike. Astra, the Association of Examiners, has also requested a meeting with the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, since DXT is disbanded and says it cannot solve this situation, and they are also waiting for some sort of response. We do not understand how a government that should be responsible is acting this way and provoking all this conflict. The pilgrimage excuse that the Government is making is that it cannot give a rise to only a few officials and not all of them, that when it makes a rise it has to make generalized. What is being requested here is a new category, new oppositions. It would be a new category and, therefore, nothing has to do with a generalized upward of all staff and staff. This, of course, is a strange excuse that nothing has to do with this subject. And it seems that by giving this excuse I wanted to confront the officials and generate another conflict. And of course we have to raise the salary of all civil servants and civil servants, and that recovery you're talking about starting to extend it to the rest of our citizenship, which so far seems to benefit only the most powerful. At the Congress of Deputies, the Commission on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility, at its meeting on 22 June, agreed to adopt with amendments the GNP submitted by the United Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea, which provided a solution to the problem of examiners. It is adopted in the Congress of Members with an amendment to the Socialist Party's addendum, so the People's Party in Government must not only comply with its own word, but must fulfil a democratic mandate of the Congress of Deputies and at once unleash this situation. The situation that the People's Party is causing, of instability in schools, needs urgent measures on the economic and fiscal issue to give them a relief, a little breath, at this difficult moment that they are going through and so that jobs and businesses are not destroyed, but we think that we have to go further and that the road training model should be rethinked. This sector could access the more labour market by making policies of awareness and training, education in the teaching and awareness of drivers, and turning this commercialist model that is currently trained by a model of training and awareness, which I think with the data of sinlessness that we have in Galicia we should deal with, and we would open up to the self-school labour market at the same time as we would improve road safety. And I'm done, I'm out of time. We also defend, of course, the transfer of traffic powers so that we can take action and govern depending on the peculiarities that Galicia has. The sinisterity data I think gives a clear picture of the need we have to take half of it on this issue. And a management from next time we think it's much more appropriate. We therefore support this initiative. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u170	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning to the people who accompany us in the rostrum. The BNG proposal, as has been explained in fact, refers to a labour conflict that keeps traffic examiners with the Directorate-General for Traffic. First of all, it is up to us to show maximum respect for the exercise of a fundamental right, the right of strike, the right of examiners, but at the same time also to ensure that the rights of the Greeks, both of the Greeks who need to obtain the driver's license and of the holders of the schools, are suffering from the economic prejudices resulting from this situation. They take every opportunity to take responsibility for something to the Galician Council, and in this case they accuse themselves of not involving themselves, but their competence — and you know it — is only, within the framework of their working powers, to ensure compliance with labour lawfulness, and this is because the examiners are officials of the DXT and the examinations are sole jurisdiction of the State. They also accuse the State of not making proposals for approximation and passivity, although several meetings have been held between the DXT and examiners who, by the way, have made improvements such as the creation of that they asked for: a speciality of traffic in the administrative body of the State Administration that will allow them economic improvements but also administrative and professional improvements, and also the convening of more than 500 squares, 435 of them of internal promotion, which will allow the promotion of 60% of examiners. In fact, the examiners denounced the indefinite strike, although they resumed it with partial unemployment in September. Why? Because they aspire to a salary supplement of 250 euros per month. It is not up to us to evaluate the demands of the sector, but the response given by the Minister of the Interior seems consistent. You can't raise the examiners' salary as a body without raising the rest of the staff. In any case, the spokesperson for the Tide, if they are so interested in raising the staff's salary, in agitating it, collaborate in the adoption of State budgets, which would not block that increase, for example. [[Applause]] But look, what you just argued about the ministry is precisely that what needs to be prioritized right now is the increase in the number of police and civilian guards needed after the restrictions of the last calls, which we consider to be quite consistent. In any case, we believe that there is always room to reconcile positions, so we agree on the desirability of continuing negotiations to reach this consensus with examiners, as proposed in point 2. So neither state passivity nor indifference, but neither the proposal they make of blackmail. Look, this government doesn't move its blackmail account, neither this Parliament nor its president can compare with others you've just mentioned, fortunately for all the Greeks. [[Applause]] As far as point 1 is concerned, in dialogue with the affected, the impact of the crisis resulting from this conflict and the need to boost tax and economic measures, of course, ladies and gentlemen, this strike is affecting many citizens who need to obtain the movement permit, in many cases even to reach a job, but it also has important economic repercussions for small and medium-sized enterprises, self-schoolers, who could be seen as bullying and even firing their workers, with job losses. So we too are going to show conformity at this point. As for the third point and the proposal to request from the Government the transfer of competences in matters of traffic and road safety, the fact that they were transferred would not solve this conflict, because this happens in Catalonia and even they also have this strike of examiners, because the competition of the examinations is state. The fact is that this issue has already been discussed in the plenary session of the Galician Parliament, it has been unanimously adopted this proposal for an organic law on supplementary transfers in the area of traffic and movement of motor vehicles and road safety, which was discussed and rejected in the Congress of Deputies in 2010, and it is therefore clear that Galicia has a population dispersion, an orography, a climatology, with a road network with many kilometres of secondary roads, thus putting in place road traffic and safety policies adapted to our particular conditions, and design policies more suitable for Galicia, sure that it would always be welcome for our interest. That's why we show you our willingness to support the third point of your proposal on the transfer of road traffic and safety skills. This is not the case with the transfer of public security, because citizen security currently has a great impact on the quality of life of all people, and ensuring that security represents a great challenge and a great challenge for all governments and forces us to design common policies. We live at a time when the cooperation and coordination of the various police forces is essential to ensure citizen security, which becomes vulnerable precisely when this coordination does not exist, even if more police force is available. In fact, the coordination of the Autonomic Police with the rest of the state's security forces and bodies is being excellent, even if the troops have increased. In the Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero we had 400 autonomic police personnel, and today, since 2011, we have 500 troops with the Government of the People's Party, and it is therefore worth considering whether the transfer of this citizen security competition would increase or not the level of safety of the Greeks. The Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, we have a high level of security that will have to strengthen and increase, but never reduce. So what we propose to you from the People's Group is that we will fully support your proposal if you are willing to withdraw from the third point the reference to the transfer of public security. At the rest of the points we show compliance. And if not, we will call for a point vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u172	Thank you, Mrs Barreira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. First, thank the voices of En Marea and the Socialist Party for their full support for this initiative, and also thank the spokesperson of the People's Party for the desire to reach an agreement. It is good that we are going to accept your proposal because, even if we disagree fundamentally with the analysis that you did at the end of your intervention on the structuring of road safety and on that demand rejected by the Congress of Deputies, we agree that the spirit of consensus is a necessity for the urgency that are currently having the affected groups, in addition to having a political reading of this issue, and that we believe that the solution to trafficking is precisely to be the Galician competition, and despite the discrepancies we also have in which we understand that the fundamental root of this conflict is precisely the disorganization and non-compliance of the state. We disagree. For example, if the Spanish State has breached the 2012 agreement that we interpret is the result of this strike by the examiner's staff, we do not believe that it will comply with its promise of creating squares; even more so when it has just announced that the budgets will already be postponed; and we disagree that by that way it can come out short of time and that it cannot make the situation worse for all these families, so we will be vigilant that the Greek Government negotiates with the Spanish State for this matter to be resolved. To insist that we think, from the Galego Nationalist Block, that the issue of road safety competition has to be a horse that we continue to fight, and we will not allow the Spanish State to take back our hair with this issue. We understand that the proximity of management would solve many absurd administrative obstacles that often find themselves in our own institutions, and would be reordered according to our many needs of the issues affecting traffic and road safety; and we understand that the last ambition must be ultimately managed by this examiner. And, of course, by approaching the deadlines, times and institutions that have to negotiate these kinds of issues, not to repeat a situation like this again. In any case, we accept that proposal and we will be vigilant so that the Greek Government will abide by its word. I would also like to convey, at the end of my speech, again in the name of this House, our solidarity with all the staff concerned, who is currently going through a complicated situation. We hope that, with the mechanisms that qualify at the fiscal level, they will be able to alleviate the pressures they have in their day-to-day lives and that in the medium term they will be able to keep their business open. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u175	After the debates on non-legislative proposals have been closed, we proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao. The self-amendment is accepted, of course, and it also accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the demand to the Galician Union in relation to the increase in the number of assessment and guidance teams (EVO) to achieve this year the reduction of waiting lists for the assessment of the degree of disability up to a maximum of three months. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u176	We now vote for the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u177	There's a transaction that consists of two points and I read. "First point. Establishing agreements with the professional schools of the fields of architecture, urbanism and engineering to promote and encourage contests of ideas, committed to a progressive increase of them, to attain the 20% percentage, whenever possible in response to the actions that are carried out of the total contracts of architectural projects, urbanism or engineering on the horizon of 2020." "Second point. May the recruitment bodies of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community and its public sector adopt and implement measures of positive discrimination in the recruitment processes, and encourage access or presence in the procurement of projects and public works of new and new professionals, as well as of small architectural studies." We voted for this transaction. [[Mrs. Pierres López asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mrs. Pierres?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u178	Thanking him for reading for us, I would be grateful, with all due respect, that on the next occasion this circumstance would allow us to read the transaction to us. Nothing else. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u179	Sorry, there's no drawback.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u180	We really appreciate it when you read it so well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u181	I'm sorry, but there's a bad interpretation here. As you know, I always let everyone read it. I was now told that this was the deal if I read it. There's a misunderstanding. I'm sorry, but there's a misunderstanding. I didn't read it for... We don't understand each other. They passed it on to me to read it. I'm sorry. In any case, it was read and we voted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to increase the convening of public contests for drafting projects of architecture and urbanism, as well as to provide formulas for the participation of new professionals and small studies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u182	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales on the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Vote of the G.P. Proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions of the Government of Galicia in connection with the construction project of a commercial macrocomplex and leisure in the municipal mountain of Lineirinos, Cabral. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 51. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u183	We are now voting on that of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Sanchez García, to whom no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the establishment of a parliamentary study committee for the participatory elaboration of a proposal for a public transport plan in Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u184	We now vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez. Looks like there's a transaction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u185	There is no transaction in the end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u186	Aren't there at the end? There was one here. All right. Don't let that happen again, eh! I have no interest, of course. [[Laughter]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and eight other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Provincial Deputation of Coruña for the creation of a work table with the municipalities of the province of Coruña traveled by the English Way to Santiago de Compostela and the extension of the Way of Santiago to the Fistra-Muxia for its improvement. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 19; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u187	We are now voting on the non-law proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Concepción Burgo López. It seems that there has been a transaction with the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and En Marea. Can you read us the transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u188	Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. They were the existing amendments of BNG and En Marea, and we arrived at the following transaction: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: "First, to promote the establishment of a special commission composed at least by the Government of Greece, the Deputation of the Crown, the Council of the Crown and the Council of Sada, in addition to other institutions that the members of that committee consider necessary, which counts with the collaboration of the universities of Galicia and experts in the field of historical memory. This commission will have the task of thoroughly analysing the original deed of the donation of the property of the palace of Meirás to Franco and any other good expolated by the dictator, and finding and presenting the procedures necessary to recover their public ownership, taking into account our legislation, but also international legislation and jurisprudence and similar European cases of the return of unlawfully subtracted property. If they are technically unable to find procedures to return the title to the Greek people, they will be responsible for proposing all the necessary legislative changes to reach the said end. 2. To reject the Franco Foundation's management of visits to the palace of Meirás, urge its illegalization and condemn the manifestations of the apologetics of frankism carried out by the Foundation. 3. Join the Union for Return of the Peace of Meirás to the Public Heritage, an entity from which the Deputation of the Crown participates and municipalities, associations of historical memory and political, social, cultural and trade union organizations. 4. Once the public title of the palace of Meirás has been restored, it promotes its conversion to a centre of dissemination of the historical Greek democratic memory and the anti-Francist struggle, compatible with the recognition of the figure of Dona Emilia Pardo Bazán."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. We vote, therefore... [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u190	Since I made an offer at the time of withdrawing the following PNL, which basically also proposed the establishment of a commission, since on this issue of maintenance of the original initiative there seems to have been no agreement and given that point 1, although it expands the object of the study, is basically similar to the original initiative of the Socialist Party, I would ask that if I let you vote point 1 separately from the others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u191	Do you accept, Mrs Burgo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u192	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u193	Okay, thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. You have the right not to accept a point vote. No one... [[Murmurs.]] Silence! We vote. [[Strong murmurers.]] Please! Please, everyone! This is a Parliament, let's not start... it's a Parliament, it's seeing a lot of people and, among other people, the guests. I think we should all behave here and here. Please. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the drive by the Government of Galicia to establish a special commission for the analysis of the original file corresponding to the prayer of the palace of Meirás a Franco, as well as the search and presentation of the procedures necessary to recover its public title. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u194	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy. Amendments to the Bloc Parliamentary Group and to En Marea were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and fifteen other Members, on the realization by the Council of Galicia, in collaboration with the universities of Galicia, of a legal study of the possibility and mechanisms that allow, while respecting the prevailing legality, to incorporate into the public heritage the property of the towers of Meiras, known as the palace of Meiras, at no cost for the Greek citizenship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u195	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Our Bergangino Presas. There was a compromise proposal that, if I didn't get it wrong, I think it is that in point 3 of the proposal, "travel safety and public security." Right? Road safety and public security? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Public security, yes. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] What did I say? I wouldn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ah! Okay, you understand? [[Assentment.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the situation in which the Galician self-schools are located as a result of the labour conflict of the traffic examiner's staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u196	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the agenda, with point 6, which is interpeleration. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García from G.P. of En Marea on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the regulation of the wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u197	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u198	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. We have a very concrete interpellation, but it should also serve as a general reflection on the wind sector in Galicia. Just a few weeks ago, I visited the neighborhoods and neighbors of Laxe, the place where an wind farm is intended to be set up in Pena Forcada. And talking to these people once again saw another concrete example of what is the wind model developed in the last 20 years in this country. In Laxe neither the corporation nor the neighborhood want these windmills; they want to avoid placing there three 3 megawatts each, 151 meters high, because it is a municipality that is free of air carriers, because it is a council in which their own general plan explains that the future is based on the empowerment of sustainable environmental tourism and because, above all, they see that it does not bring any kind of benefit to them, and that the benefit will be taken, once again, by large companies, which in addition use the weapons that give them governments, such as the declaration of public utility and forced expropriation, to do their private businesses. In our own explanation, we explain why neighbours will not even benefit from an instrument that seeks to compensate for the environmental damage and the environmental impact of these wind farms to us in an insufficient way, but that in this case it will not even be possible because technology allows less and less aerogeors to be placed and the number is reduced to get the same or more power. Therefore, we note that in Article 15 of Law 8/2009, the type of recording and the quota would tax wind farms with between 1 and 3 air carriers is a zero euro quota per unit, which is the taxable basis. So they're going to install three propellers that they don't want. It's also significant that a council approves in its corporation that doesn't want wind farms and, in spite of all, if they put them there. But they're going to have that, and yet on top of it, they won't receive any euro for the wind cannon, or they won't pay -- better said -- for the wind cannon. This seems to us to be an example of the model that has been developed here; a country, Galicia, with enormous wind potential and an incomparable wind resource that has been used to give above all business to a few companies; therefore, not taking advantage of the opportunity to dynamize rural areas, to dynamize our economy, to create more employment and to redistribute the resources that are produced with our natural resources among people. We believe that the model that has been implemented here is characterized by a model that causes serious environmental impacts and that has very little social return. No measure was used to ensure that this social return was greater, so that citizenship could also participate in production in a cooperative manner or in public participation in wind production. Besides, the model of the Government Feijóo contest has proven to be a failure. You've cancelled one contest, you've approved another one, and for the years you've been ruling since 2010 you've practically crippled the wind sector. In addition, it meant a cap for the development of wind activity in this country all these years. During these years we have also been demanding a deep debate on the changing model of the wind. You knew that the model had to be changed; in fact, the law passed in the state is a change in the wind model, as we now see. But instead of giving that model exchange debate, you're going out and you want to put those measures through the back door. We did see it repeating what our model is. Well, our model even falls within the European Energy Directive, which prioritizes renewable energies against non-renewables, market freedom, the conditionality of the distorting mechanisms of the free market — premiums or aids to the preconditions for the ineffectiveness of the free market — the distributed generation — i.e. the production of few and small —, universal access to distribution and transport networks, transparency in aid allocation processes. We believe that until now all these principles have been violated. It is all invented: in other European countries there are massive presences of solar panels on roofs of industrial and housing ships, there are generators in agricultural farms and factories and the preference is the supply of many and small producers and also the presence of citizenship participating in cooperative production initiatives. For us this is the model of general interest, the sustainable model, the viable model. So far you have been by a diametrically different model, not only to benefit and privilege the electric oligopolie, but to put obstacles to self-consumption, obstacles to small production, obstacles to public participation or to the decision-making of public participation and obstacles to the participation of citizenship in this model. That is why we have been complaining for years that measures have been taken to develop a regulatory framework that allows us to prioritize what we call democratization of the production of wind energy, that enables citizens to enter on the basis of decentralized production and the priority of plants of small size and distributed generation and that can enhance self-consumption and not that the penalty, as you have done with the decree to guarantee, indeed, universal access to distribution and transport networks, where the electric oligopolius continues to control with iron hand what is of interest to them. You legislate against renewables, you paralyze a whole sector. They cost us money, they pay us money directly for compensation, but they pay us money also for the unemployment rate you caused. And they also refused to give that debate during these years. Now you are proposing a bill to promote business initiatives by selling one thing and, instead, by presenting another. And what they really do in the wind sector is to steal that debate from what I was talking about. You and I can have different opinions about what the model is for the country, but we should be able, in this Parliament, to have a debate process of which is the wind model that benefits this country. You in that law put transcendental changes that modify the model, which give you folders to the model of the wind competition — with a lot of discretion, but give you a folder — and a period of time to complete these investments or such installations — which we will see if they come in, and through essentially — because I don't have much more time to explain — these projects of special interest give a legal fit to the people who participate in the auctions of renewable energy that the state makes. We find it intolerable to proceed and seem intolerable to hide this debate from society and this Parliament. In addition to being against the content as well, because this content not only deep in its model, it brings us back to the times of Fraga, when five companies were handed over all that wind potential, which in these years has been billing between 600 and 700 million euros, practically the same as the dairy sector, that is yes, generating half jobs and very little benefits. Projects of special interest seem to us to be consistent with the philosophy of law; it's to give even greater advantages to these companies in the face of citizenship. You reinforce the figure of the public utility declaration to be used by these companies as a mechanism of extortion to landowners. It doesn't make sense the systematic declaration of public utility for these facilities that are a private business. But more importantly, in projects of special interest, you reduce the public exposure period to half. They greatly reduce the possibility of people — like those of Laxe, like those of Cabana de Bergantiños — to be able to defend their rights and to say legitimately that they don't want that facility that causes their impacts and that doesn't bring them any benefit. It's a law, once again, made at the service of these companies -- it's not surprising -- but at least we ask that these debates not steal, do not hide, take place here. I don't know if for you a sector that invoices 600 million euros a year can have a normative framework not seriously debated in this Parliament. Since we're talking about democracy all these days, I don't know if this seems very democratic to you, that there are transcendent measures for a sector that affects the whole country by the back door. We also asked him in the question already specifically if he was going to take some action to ensure the social return of this production; that is, a very small part was the wind cannon. You, in the Proposal for a Business Initiative Promotion Act, do not present any measures to be paid from the first airliner, which could be a perfectly legal and feasible measure. They don't present that, but are they going to put forward any measures so that at least parks that have 9 megawatts pay the wind canon and have a minimum return to society? I also ask you whether you will have another type of initiative, such as public participation or the entry of citizenship, so that this production does not go largely beyond our borders and serves to dynamize the economy, especially the rural economy, and if you are going to have some kind of political initiative in the face of the systematic action being taken by the People's Party in the State. In the People's Parliamentary Group, it was said in the past legislation that he disagreed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u200	...with the decree of self-consumption because it puts a stop to him. He's got administrative obstacles. You say you're going to reduce administrative barriers in this law, but only for some. And tell us if you're in accordance with the Self-Consumption Decree or if you're willing to have some kind of political initiative to encourage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u202	...an electrical production, which would be an opportunity for this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, first of all, I think we're discussing the wind model in some way. So here we are not narrowing any debate in this Parliament. This government is constantly open to share and to establish a debate on the wind model, and I think that I therefore insist that no debate is adjourned. There is a law in processing where all groups can submit amendments, which, logically, will be analyzed and addressed and, therefore, will also be answered, and we also hope that we can reach agreements. So there's no debate, and there's no sort of regulation in the back door. I think it should be rigorous, at least, in the proposals because, I insist, there is debate and, logically, there is a parliamentary procedure where the opposition and also the Tide Group can put forward any kind of proposal, any kind of amendment that can improve the legislative text. In any case, I very much appreciate that, at last — many years have gone by — they share the theses of this government and accept the legality of the wind canon as an environmental tax, which they know enters the competences of our community, as has been assessed both by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and by the Supreme Court. And I also thank you, Mr Sánchez, for finally accepting that the wind cannon is a useful tool for Galicia, because until now they did not accept that the cannon was an environmental tax, nor did they accept that it was useful for Galicia. And you know perfectly well that this government is defending that the cannon is useful to protect the environment in Galicia, which is also useful to stimulate the use of new technologies and that, logically, it is useful to contribute with the municipalities to improve their funding. The data I think you know: about 180 million euros have been collected until July of this year and have allowed for more than a thousand actions, which are actions proposed by the municipalities themselves. I hope, therefore, that you will continue next to this government and that you will therefore defend the position that we have transferred to the Central Government, in the sense that the wind cannon is a tribute to the environment and that it is therefore not a tribute that is recording the activities or installations intended for electrical supply. I think that is important, and there we will be both the Government and the parliamentary groups that join this approach. In any case, I also thank you, Mr. Sánchez, for accepting that the wind cannon is serving at its end. It's good news I think for everyone and it's good news for citizens too. You know -- and I knew it, but today for the first time you recognize it -- that this wind canon is serving first to compensate for the landscape impact and the environmental impact of wind farms and also, logically, it serves as a very important aspect — and it has always been the Government's planning — to introduce new technologies and so that through reconstitution processes, it could have a smaller impact on our territory. I quote article 7 of Law 8/2009: "To protect the environment, to stimulate the incorporation of technologies into aero-operators, to reduce the number of these and to strengthen the territorial balance generated by the installation of wind farms, the wind canon and the Environmental Compensation Fund are created." And that's why in this technology improvement policy, we've already dealt with two repotencings of wind farms that have allowed, for example, the Cape Vilan wind park to go from 22 aerogeers to 2 and a park in Malpica that had 69 aerogeers today to have only 7. That's politics, and that's why the wind cannon is serving its purpose: compensate for the environmental landscape impact and also introduce new technologies. So, Your Honor, I think that is where we can meet to combine the interests of the environment with productive interests and hence, from there, maintaining environmental legality, also favouring the development of the sector. If you, Mr. Sánchez, want to open a debate on the wind canon, I agree. But I also agree that you agree to enter, logically, into the debate on how we can boost this renewable energy from the sector, because the only proposals you make in your model — which I will now enter — logically do not favor the development of the sector. You're telling me about the Business Implementation Act. You know that this law is the opportunity that Galicia has to develop more than 600 megawatts that the Greek promoters were assisted in the auction of central government renewables. It's therefore an opportunity for you to develop and increase wind capacity in Galicia. Are you okay or are you against? What is the position of En Marea? Look, let's talk about ownership, because I think it's good to clarify some issues that, as much as they say them both in the media and in Parliament, do not stop being incorrect. The new law, Mr Sánchez, does not introduce a minority of environmental protection and does not introduce a minority of heritage protection. I invite you to bring here that concrete article diminishes environmental protection or heritage within the wind sector. Nor, Mr Sánchez, amends the consideration of public utility. Let us be rigorous: the law does not introduce any kind of consideration or alter the consideration of public utility. And it doesn't strengthen the right of expropriation at any time either. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that the debate on the Enterprise Implementation Act and, in particular, on the amendment of Law 8/2009, must be central to what is proposed. In fact, a simplification is planned by reducing the procedures to half; of course, which does not mean that all sectoral reports must be complied with. It establishes a single procedure, and, Mr. Sánchez, it does not introduce any reduction in the commitments that have been adopted and that have taken the promoters into the 2010 competition. The promoters must continue to carry out their industrial plans, they must continue to fulfill the wind cannon as well. So, Mr Sánchez, the law is logically willing to share it, to debate it and to introduce amendments. You tell me about the wind competition model. Mr. Sánchez, I'm sorry to bring your model here. I'm sorry, and I'm going to remind you because, at best, logically, you don't remember the Bipartite's approaches and, therefore, the approaches that were defended here for your part. Maybe it's a lapse, but I remind you that the Bipartite — I insist, the Bipartite — has helped 560 megawatts to companies like Natural Gas, like Actiona, like Enel, like EDP, like Gamesa, or like FCC. And that's right there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So when you tell me about a model, and it turns out that you've supported and supported another different model here, because, logically, I have to be surprised.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u205	Please keep quiet and listen to who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u206	We put forward a model with total transparency, a model that we understand meets the needs of the sector. The amendments tabled here in Parliament are in line with the sector, Mr Sánchez, and we therefore believe that this is a way of dynamizing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Surely you, too, have forgotten that the Bipartite contest has, when it speaks of minority participation, a minority participation of 10% to the Wind Aucosa; curiously, Mr Sánchez, the company participated in by Alfageme, which that same Bipartite Government granted at the end of its term of office for 30 million euros and which, unfortunately, they submitted to the Council of Galicia and all the Greeks a breakdown of 32 million euros. I believe, Mr. Sánchez, that your model is clearly testifying to your failure and therefore I invite you to talk about the future, not of the past, and not to pose here... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u208	...a model that is not the model that the Bipartite defended in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u209	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have Mr. Anton Sánchez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u210	Counselor, I think he's confused about himself. I believe that he is confused, first, because neither this Member nor this group has ever questioned the character of the wind canon; never, never. I don't know if you think I'm in the BNG Group and if you've questioned him, I don't know, our group, never. Now yes, we question it insufficiently, exactly. Why? You said 120 million euros, like Mr. Feijóo, adding those of the eight years. Yes, 120 million euros of collection. In that same period of time how much was charged in the Greek wind sector in this country with our wind, with our territory? 50,000 million euros. Does that return to a country that gives its entire territory enough, the best places where the greatest environmental impact comes from companies that come with the declaration of public utility, with forced expropriation, that you give them to extort people and plant their aerogeors? Does this model seem to you — and you have told me — the most beneficial for the general interest? Or would you prefer that there be more return, that people would benefit more and that the owners and in general citizenship would benefit from our wind and our territory? We're talking about 600 million a year, Counsellor, and you're telling me that with 120 million euros — which, soon, the boat, means a percentage I don't know if it's 1 percent; about 1%, or less than 1% — more than what they've estimated studies like the University of Vigo, which is renting between 1% and 1.5%. Does it seem enough or does it seem, as we believe, that this is a gift to certain companies? That's what we believe. And besides, we're saying that we don't even put on a model. Those who are violating the model of the European directive are you. The European directive says that administrative procedures must be provided in proportion to the size of the project; that is, small producers need to be given more facilities and less administrative obstacles and self-consumption should be encouraged, as is done by almost all the countries of the European Union. And you're doing the opposite, you're taking administrative obstacles from Gas Natural Fenosa, which I've already told you is actually having very little, and you're putting the administrative obstacles on people who want to self-consume, to escape precisely the mafia practices of the electric oligopolie. And I say mobsters because we're all seeing all the opposing judgments that are coming against electric companies for their practices. And then he also gets confused about himself, because although I've often defended the policies of the bipartisan government, which are the light years of what you are doing, in all respects, despite the fact that the Bipartite contest was better than what you posed, I was critical always and here also with the Bipartite contest, because I said that the model of the contest had to be finished. Then don't answer me those things. That Bipartite model doesn't count on us either. It's not worth it. Do you understand, Counselor? So you told me what I'm telling you, and what I've always said -- as I don't suppose you've taken all the decisions of the People's Party -- because you haven't answered me. What are you going to do about self-consumption, Counselor? Does it seem to you that it has no potential in this country to generate wealth and employment? Do you intend to tell the Government of the State, which is impeding the development of this initiative? He then spoke of Aucosa and of those issues also referred to the Bipartite, precisely the company that won them a judgment in the Supreme Court, which declared illegal its annulment of the Biparty; in the Supreme Court, firm judgment for a deviation of power, Counsellor. His mistakes we're all paying directly or indirectly. Directly with compensation to companies, but indirectly with the paralysis of a sector that in times of crisis could be a way out for many people who had to emigrate, even to Latin American countries, Counsellor, as you well know. And you're clear that it's unprotected and clear that it reduces the environmental guarantees of the law. Have you read the law, Counselor? I think it was the Government that did it and then passed it to the parliamentary group precisely to do political filibusterism. Counselor, why don't you cut? I just don't want to be able to file an inquiry! But you could lay down the law by the ordinary method by presenting it to the Government with previous reports and ordinary times, not by the urgency of the parliamentary group, which comes without reports and gives us half the time. This law—see how much debate you open—will definitely be approved with your knee on October 17, if I am not mistaken. That's the great debate of a wind model, mixed with the transcendental changes in mining and the transcendental changes in heritage. Of course you do. Look, in projects of special interest, it reduces public participation by half, it reduces all proceedings by half. And yes, if it strengthens the statement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u211	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u212	...of public utility as an extortioner mechanism. I'm done now. Look, in projects of special interest, one of the effects that I'm talking about is the reduction of deadlines to half, and the other is that the Directorate-General for Energy is responsible for granting the declaration of public use. And put in paragraph (b) that automatically assumes the prevalence of such use over other uses. It's hidden, but we can read, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u214	Of course, it reduces heritage protection, because where a heritage permit was originally required, in the goods of cultural interest and its surroundings, you don't have to have permission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u216	We have to incorporate a report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u217	Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u218	I'm finishing up, and I think it's important, and I never get over it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u219	Well, the first one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u220	...a report that will arrive in time. Look, to speed up, do you know what to do, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u221	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u222	Let things be done well. Guarantees should not be reduced or procedures reduced. They hire staff to make the Heritage reports, when a person wants to make a cut of wood, which is taking ten months, which is taking a year to answer. But it's you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u224	It is the functioning and ineffectiveness of the Government of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u225	Thank you very much for your intervention. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, I insist that I greatly thank you for your clear stand in favour of the wind cannon and that you clearly stand in favour of the utility of the social return that the wind cannon has. Indeed, the wind canon as such, as such environmental tax, which the Government so defends, because logically it can have the capacity to improve, such as the different aspects associated with the model. But you speak of the law; I will insist on it. Look, the law does not reduce any guarantees, neither environmental nor heritage, none. The law is an integrated and unique procedure which will, in fact, enable it to process simultaneously an environmental impact declaration, an integrated environmental authorisation and a sectoral project. We're going to reduce the procedures to half without reducing any kind of guarantee. Do you agree or not? That's the question. You will logically have the opportunity to improve the text in the amendment process. Let's go with the law, with the amendment of the Law of Wind. Are you in favour of the liberalisation of the sector and therefore that any promoter, regardless of its size, can present a wind project to the Government? It's government, yes. Are you in favour of the fact that there is a record that allows you to know what projects are being processed? It's government, yes. Do you agree to establish temporary certainty and therefore shorten the processing time of wind projects? It's government, yes. Do you agree, Mr Sánchez, that we must maintain the wind cannon and that we must also maintain all the commitments of the promoters during the 2010 competition? It's government, yes. I believe, Mr Sánchez, that the law, both from the point of view of administrative processing and from the point of view of all aspects of changing the wind sector, is an opportunity for Galicia in the sense that it means administrative simplification, being absolutely guaranteed with all the procedures. Therefore, Mr. Sánchez, welcome to the debate. I believe that we will have a logical opportunity in the amendment process to improve the text, but I think that, as I said to you, we must lay down carefully what is in the proposal. You tell me about the rulings of the contest. You know perfectly well that this judgment is not firm, you know perfectly well, and you know perfectly well that the judgment is contrary to the majority criterion, because there are more than twenty judgements that endorse what this government has done by both the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Supreme Court. Anyway, Mr. Sánchez, if you have any doubts, you can probably ask your roommate for explanations of that sentence, because you know them perfectly, Mr. Sánchez; you know them perfectly. In any case, I insist, his model of the wind sector was clearly what it was, an absolute failure. I, if you would, I remind you here what, logically, was the party that was at that time in the Government: that was totally against what the government partner wanted to do. I therefore believe that, in that sense, it would be good to focus the debate. But I think we have to talk about the future, Mr. Sánchez, and that means seeing where we can open those opportunities. Mr. Sánchez, in the windmill, you have to favor its implantation where there is wind; if we don't start from that principle, we're going bad, because it's hardly useful to put wind where there is no wind. So, when you tell me about specific locations, logically, they are specific locations where there are conditions to develop wind farms, but all parks — including that you are asking me about — have to comply with all environmental, landscape, heritage and urban guarantees that set out in the law, and the law of business implementation does not in any case reduce all those guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. We are now debating Question 6.3, which is an amendment to the agenda, which I suppose would be communicated, although I do not know. I apologize because I can't tell them. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government on the care of dependent persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u228	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u229	Good morning, Counselor. Today the BNG inquires about the dependency situation in Galicia. Galicia is one of the communities, it's the oldest nation in the state. In the age range of people over 80, who nourish dependent people in a very important way, because we have 237.237; that is, almost 9% of the population, and in those older than 65, it represents 24.6%, 665,000; that is, we have a lot of aging population. And in Galicia there are almost 80,000 applications from individuals who claim dependency benefit, almost 80,000 applications registered. However, 67,552 — you have given data from the State Observatory in the first half of 2017 — they have the recognised benefit, but of these only 49,100 are receiving that benefit effectively; that is, we have 17,393 beneficiaries — on the right granted by the law to them — who are assessed and benefited, who are waiting for a benefit, which means almost 30% of the people who have the right because they claimed it because, if we have time, we speak of those people who no longer claim the right, who are not receiving it. So it's about that in Galicia there are 1.79 people who would benefit every 100 inhabitants and this is located below the average state. The statement or report of the Observatory of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Persons in a Dependencies also gives us another set of data. And with regard to the financing of the system in Galicia, what tells us is that the accumulated cut in Galicia, derived from the cuts implemented by the People's Party, essentially the derivatives of that Royal Infamous Decree 20/2012 — you know it perfectly well, that decree from which services, rights and benefits were cut, from labor to dependency—... From that decree it has to do with the removal of the agreed level of the implementation of the resources to be allocated to the dependency, this report, the report at the state level — not the BNG data— amounts to EUR 151.8 million, which are the money that the State owes to Galicia to care for the dependence. It also says that public spending for dependents in Galicia is clearly below the average of the state. He says that while in 2016 expenditure per dependent on the state as a whole was 6,833 euros, in Galicia it is 792 euros less, almost 800 euros less per person to attend in Galicia. And besides, what's serious is that it's not a timely data, it's not a data of an annuality, but what it says is that since 2012, year after year, this data has only diminished. We moved from 6,701 euros in 2012 to 6,041 today. I mean, he went down all the time. We're talking about a reduction of 660 euros since 2012; that is, it's a trend, which is the most serious. The most recent evolution is particularly worrying. From 2015 to 2016 that count was reduced by 304 euros. I mean, it's a trend, and what's more serious is that this trend in the last year has multiplied. Between 2015 and 2016 that discount was EUR 304. As Galicia of the state's oldest communities, per capita spending in the dependency system is lower than that of the state: 21.66 euros less. I mean, that's all of these, so data to make a composition of what the situation is. With the entry into force of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Attention to Persons in Dependency, the right to older persons or persons with disabilities who could not avail themselves would be met by public administrations, guaranteeing them access to public services and adequate economic services to their needs. Attention to dependent persons should be a matter of highest priority for the Government, Counsellor, to attend to the persons requesting it and to be recognized the right to the benefit derived from that recognition. Of course, at the BNG we think it has to be a priority to end with the limbo of the dependency, and it gave the BNG and they keep saying so to the organizations that represent the people in a dependency situation. And they're not saying it in 2009, they're not saying it in 2010 or 2012, they're saying it in 2017. In 2017 — we can talk about Cermi — they continue to demand that they end with the limbo of the unit, they continue to demand that the people who need that attention be paid to them, and that they respond to their needs. But the reality is that this realization, that right recognized by law, is not being made in time or form, for lack of budgets, lack of staff, insufficient staff, insufficient budget, little means, excessive bureaucratic procedures, collapse in many of the management and care services. And what are you doing? For scandalous delays in file resolution, scandal and evaluation delays to recognize that degree of dependency and delay in adjudication of any service derived from that degree of dependency recognition. The legislation in force—unless they have changed it a few minutes ago, Counsellor, who seems not to me— sets three months to assess the degree of dependence and entry of the application in the organ register. What are we meeting with? Well, these deadlines are not being met. First because there is an entry in the Merge log that does not calculate as the start date, because since you entered the Merge log until you entered the dependency log, as in many cases it is over months. Why are they passing months? Well, because you, among other things, loaded several of the teams and they want the same team to do the work that they did three or four before. And we're finding out that the law says three months, and you do. But they already run out of time since they entered the dependency register. And if we were to count since you entered the board register, those months would multiply. We have found that, since the IAP — the individual care proposal — has been made, the allocation of appeals in many cases remains there, in the limb of the allocation of some of the resources. There is a systematic failure to comply with the deadlines for resolving unsolved files for years, when — I insist — legislation establishes months. We can talk about, Mr. Counsellor, that, for example, for residence squares, a 100-point rating, a person who has 90 points over 100 because he's practically not going to come in, he has a lot to wait for. With a score of 85 or 90, nothing to do with it. And many of the people need quite more than 90 points to be helped with a residence. We're talking about that, to have more than 90 points, it has to be a person with a sense of consciousness, a person with virtually no consciousness in the world. That's reality, that's reality from day to day, Counselor, that's reality. Few people are entering, and those who are entering are these; with which, the rest, with a recognized grade 3, they are not having access to a residential resource.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u231	And then we can talk about grade revisions as they take between eight and nine months. So, Counsellor, today we want to ask you what are the waiting times since an application is registered until you actually have the recourse to the plaintiff, what motivates the enormous delay that thousands of people live in Galicia to enjoy the provision or service that corresponds to them under the Dependency Act, what is the number of people who wait for the aid to materialize, and if you think that these resources, the human resources intended, are sufficient...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u233	... — close, President — and if the staff is replaced when they are on vacation or on a low or other basis, and what measures they intend to take to resolve this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, ladies and gentlemen, very good days. The well-being of families is an inevitable commitment to social policies developed by the Galician Union. The improvement in the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, and especially of our seniors and dependent people, is a priority objective for this Counsellor and the Set of the Self-Governmental Executive. We can say that in the attention of our elders, and essentially those who have their position of limited autonomy, today Galicia is much better than in 2009, when the People's Party government began, but we can also say that it's much better than two years ago and we can say it's much better than a year ago. These are some facts and some data: the number of dependents attended in May 2009 was 14,000 people, there was a 30 per cent payout ratio; in October 2015 — for this reason I spoke to you about 2009 two years ago and one year ago — the figure was 40,000 dependents attended; and today, according to the latest data — that are not from July, they are from August, the latest official data from the Imserso, that it presents official data every month — is that they are served in Galicia 50,302 beneficiaries with benefit, which means a 75.7% ratio of care. I would also like to say that precisely this last data means, in a month, 1,353 new dependents attended, and we are the first autonomous community across Spain in advance in caring for dependency. And being much better than in 2009, being much better than two years ago or being much better than a year ago, with this data I just gave, doesn't mean for anything that we're conformists. On the contrary, this advisor, and all his team and all the staff of the Social Policy Council, is non-conformist, because we have the ambition of fulfilling President Alberto Núñez Feijóo's electoral commitment. There's a lot left to do, Mrs Prado, there's a lot left to do, gentlemen. But with the backing of the fact, with the support of the increments -- I mean, 30% of the attention in 2009 and 75.7% of the attention in the latest official statistics -- we can move on. The next fact we expect, that this Government is waiting and that it hopes to be able to share with this House, is the date of October, in which the first year of this legislation will be fulfilled. Our ambition is to reach 52,000 people in Galicia. At present, as I say, the ratio is 75.8%. And this is very important from two points of view. We have two very important data to highlight. The first is that for the first time Galicia exceeds the 50,000 people attended; and secondly, we consolidate our improvement in the set of autonomous communities throughout the state. The average attention to dependency in the autonomous communities, of different political colors — all of which will have their problems — is 74%, and in Galicia we are 75.8%. But I'm telling you more: we haven't changed the regulations a few minutes ago, but last week the Council of Galicia agreed to incorporate 3,000 people into the system in the coming months, and the Council of Galicia — which is what governs — in July also increased the hours of home help for the municipalities in 1.2 million hours throughout Galicia; which makes us think that early next year Galicia will overcome the set of Spain — and I'm not going to enter autonomous community by autonomous community — in eight points and that we will also have an 82% attention ratio. With that increase of home help, we are Spain's autonomous community that helps most in home is lending to our seniors, twice as much as the state's overall, and we're going to overcome next year's 20,000 families who have home help through dependence. We also have more squares than average in residences and day centers — 35% more than in 2009 — and 7,000 people receive telecare or home help. But there is a second fact that I find very important and that is a quantitative but also qualitative data — because there are some autonomous communities in Spain, such as Andalusia, Catalonia, Valencia or Extreme, which are more betting on economic services and not on professional services—: Galicia is ten points above average across Spain in professional services, and 77% of dependence in Galicia is precisely through professional services. I'm telling you, ten points above the average of all Spain. And then I'm told of a budget commitment, that budgets are missing. Of course, we're talking about thousands of people, thousands of families, who need attention. We still have a way to go, but let me also tell you that in the year 2009 in Galicia they were spent, for the elderly and people with disabilities, 213 million euros, and that we are currently investing — because this is not expenditure, it is investment — 375 million euros. He was talking to me about the state — and there was a question from Mr. Leicega about the state. Indeed, the State owes Galicia a debt of dependence. The data are as follows: at the moment, of these 300 million euros, with own funds from the Autonomous Community, we are assuming 72% of the expenditure, and the state is assuming 28% of the expenditure. But I also gave him other data. I gave him evolution. The state gives less money to the dependency but Galicia increasingly invests more of its own resources to the dependency. See, after the last forum of autonomous presidents, an important commission was constituted at the initiative of President Feijóo, the Commission for the analysis of the system for autonomy and the attention to dependency. It takes this commission seven months of work and no doubt we demand more funding from the state. I also hope that, before the end of the year, we will be able to present to this Parliament the results of a new system of funding in relation to dependency. That's one part; another part, obviously, linked to the system of self-financing itself. But we also aspire that an important part of the finalist funding of the dependence appears to be perfectly recognized by the state. Negotiation seems to be going well; there are autonomous communities of different political colors, but, I say, it is hasty, now, before being approved, to present it at this moment; but I anticipate that I would like to come here to be able to present it. As for the procedure, I wanted to highlight the unique social history. The single social story is going to be a historical simplification of social services. We've got 500,000 social stories recorded right now. It's very complex, because of the multiple number of operators working on the social services dependency system: a lot of people have to agree. We have a specific working group in the development of the Single Social Agenda with the councils and the deputies, working, precisely in this field, so that the procedures are faster and that we can — as you say to me — reduce bureaucracy: we actually work with that objective, both the adviser and all the staff of the Social Policy Council. So, Mrs Prado, we're getting better: we're going to get over the 50,000 dependents in Galicia for the first time; we're going to get to a coverage ratio next year, over 82%; and today we're investing 375 million euros in older people with disabilities, 75% more than in 2009. And the state that does what you think, but Galicia, of course, has a commitment to its greatest and a commitment to its dependence. We are currently in the process of implementing new measures of axillization of procedures, in accordance with other councils, precisely to ensure the axillization that you make me manifest in your interpellation. Before the end of the year, just as I came to talk about the new system of dependency funding, I will come to realize the results of these changes that we are making in all our processing units, both the ones of the council and those of Galician municipalities. I hope and hope that this will serve, above all, to answer to those who truly need us, who are the greatest and the people who have the recognized dependence or in the process of recognition, because they are the one we owe. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u236	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u237	Look at a little thing, Counselor: in 2005 there were zero euros dedicated to the dependency, there were zero day centers, there were zero... Of course!, in 2005 yes, Counsellor, in 2005 yes, because it turns out that the law of dependence is 2007 in the state and in Galicia began to start in 2008, with which, in a year... yes, man, for God's sake! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, that's right. So, ten years after the law of dependency was put in place, he came to take it that there are still 25 percent of the people to whom the law says they have a right and those who are unrecognizable. Because the holder of what you just said is that, ten years later, there are about 25 percent of people who continue without receiving the benefit that the law tells them they have the right to receive. That's the headline you just said here. And there's also a question: you just said that we're going to be champions... of course, I didn't expect less, we're the benefit champions, what you don't say is what kind of benefits and what kind of resources you're doing. And before I go to give you the data on what kind of resources you're dealing with, of course, the BNG has reported that you, instead of being the Government of Galicia, are a subject of what Madrid says. And you just ratified it here. We, here, are putting our money and the state that does whatever we want, as if the state's money wouldn't pay them too. Let the state do whatever it wants: let it steal us, let it not finance public services in Galicia as we need, let it not have an economic concert as much as we pay... and it turns out that you say, "No, the state that does whatever you want", that the money is from the state, put Mariano Rajoy from his pocket, it's not money from the Greeks and the Greeks. Of course, I have to tell you it's really tough. And, look, resources: you say you are downgrading the waiting list; what does the Observatory report say? That there is no greater investment — I'm talking about Galicia — that is not increasing the number of people or the budget. What does that mean? Because they're giving low-cost care and benefits, Mr. Rey; you're providing low-cost services, services and resources. What he says is that the benefits that have grown most in Galicia in the last year are the prevention and promotion of autonomy. What's grown? Teleassisted. How much does a teleassistation cost a month? 25 euros. Those are the resources that you are... why? Because there are a lot of people who need resources like residences, like day centers; you're not giving them them, and what they're saying is, "Well, we don't have this, we have the theme of teleassis: if they want, take it or leave it." 25 euros a month per person. What's growing up? Workshops, preventive programs. What's growing up? Well, economic benefits and home help. What you don't say is that they've done a rhyming of the topic of home help, and that many people with a pension, for example, of widowhood, minimum, that I computed there, for example, to have a home. Turns out to have a place to live, and it turns out that the pension doesn't reach him to pay for that home help as long as they need it. Those are the resources you're giving. And what do they say about the data from that observatory? What's going on down are the residential squares in Galicia, which in the last year have dropped 1.4% and in the last five, 14%, the residential squares; that the caregivers around the family are no longer funding social security quotas; that they don't get to 1,000 people who, taking care of their families, turn out they're not high, because it turns out that you don't put a rope in them. What do they say? That people would benefit with entitlement to benefit came down, the big dependents, and what increases is that degree 1 of moderate dependency, with this kind of resource, Counsellor: low cost resources. With which, you, what comes here today is to stamp the figures, trying to be champion, which turns out we're going better in Galicia, when they're not giving you the supplies or the resources that the population needs, but really some of -- I insist -- at low cost. And what that report also says is that the cost per dependent person cared for gradually goes down; it doesn't generate jobs, when it would have to be a sector where it would have to be generating jobs; and they still demand -- I insist, Mr Counsellor -- that they end up with that limbo where there are thousands of people who are not receiving the benefit and the resource they would need. And I end by saying what the president of one of these associations says, and he says, "It's taking the risk of only growing into mediocre care that doesn't really support people, that doesn't generate enough returns and that they're not sources of job creation." That's what you're paying attention to. I've already given you the data: less resources per person...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u238	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u239	...less attention and, what's worse, an unmet amount of population. I asked you a number of questions — which you also have in writing — about staff and resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u240	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u241	...and he didn't answer any of me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u243	Because one of the big losers, apart from the people who need the benefit, is the staff, which you have drowned in working conditions, of course, indecent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u244	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u245	And I hope you answer those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u246	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, I tell you everything you want, because it's also my obligation. But the first thing I have to tell you is that you can't tell me neither did I say something I didn't say. I hope you can understand me on the subject of funding — I want to say that if you have misunderstood me — it is not "Let the State do whatever you want"; we are claiming from the State greater funding for dependence. That's how we claim it; not here, we demand it where to claim it, which is in Madrid, in the commission that was created on the initiative of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, accompanied by other autonomic presidents. And we are about to conclude a joint dictatorship of the autonomous communities together with the state, which I will also come to this Parliament to explain how we do it. Secondly, look, Mrs. Prado, the Dependency Act has its virtues and defects. You won't tell me what's bigger than they died -- you won't tell me -- without that resource, after years of attention in their families, neither after the law nor before the law. And, look, I'm quite young, but before the law, fortunately, in Galicia there were already older residences, in Galicia there were already day centers and there was already a system for which Mr. Fraga and many entities worked over many years. [[Applause]] And I, of course, was not in political responsibilities; but go if there was him in Galicia!, I know him well, I know him well, I know him well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For you, your reality began in 2005 and seems to have ended in 2009. I'm also talking about budget commitment, if you want to go to that. Year 2009: EUR 225 million for our older people and people with disabilities. Year 2017: 375 million euros; hence 75% more, taking into account what fell the general budget of the Galician Union. So I admit that there's a lot left to do, but I don't admit that it doesn't teach us any lessons from those times, because we're in new times, things are changing and we're trying to do the best things to better care for our older ones. Look, tell me about the coupon, and the state says about it too. I don't know if your model is Catalonia paying attention to dependency. I'm going to give you some interesting data from Catalonia, because they're so busy in other things that they're forgetting about their dependence and attention to their elders. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, the ratio of care in Catalonia is 62%; in Galicia we have a lot to do, but in Galicia it's 76%: there are 14 points above Catalonia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then he talks to me about low cost; it's that low cost where to speak is precisely in Catalonia. Look, I have the official report. I respect very much all the observatories, I respect very much all the informal reports, but, of course, the official reports are the official reports and what the official reports say is that, in Galicia, 77% of the benefits are professional benefits, public services and professional benefits. The average state -- I told you before -- 66%: we are 10 points above the Spanish average. I'm telling you, there's a lot to do, but, look, Catalonia, 53%: it's more than 20 points under professional care. Look, tell me about teleassistation. Look, teleassisción is not computed for dependency purposes; therefore, what we spend on teleassisción is not computed in official data; therefore, what you invest is not recovered; and therefore, I don't know why you call me the word "teasty", because it doesn't belong to the system of dependency established in the dependency law of the year 2006. Anyway, I'm telling you, Galicia is working to greatly improve teleassistion, but not to increase low cost -- as you say -- the attention system. And then the home help service. Look, Galicia is a dispersed population, we have half the population cores all over Spain and we bet on the home help service. We bet and that's why we have 7 million hours of home help right now in collaboration with the municipalities. And unfortunately there are still hundreds of people in the Greek municipalities who, because of mismanagement, sometimes other administrations — who also have their delays — cannot access, since there is recognition and since there is the PIA, to the actual service. I'm not going to do this either by city halls because I think it's the neighbors who know perfectly well what kind of town halls are taking longer. We're working with everyone, with all the municipalities, I'm telling you, in the single social history so that, among all, we can simplify the data. As far as the staff is concerned, since I've arrived at the Councillor's office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u249	...we're expanding the number of teams and we're in the process of simplification as well. And — I tell you — I will come before I finish this year to see the results, to evaluate the results. No team runs any kind of danger, no team, no professional from my office. On the contrary, if we have to increase more equipment and more personnel, we will. But if we can take advantage of and decrease the procedures, we will also do it, because that's what a government does that manages thinking about people, in this case thinking about our older ones.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u251	I'm done, Mr. President. The reality is that. Now, more than 50,000 people attended in Galicia and with an objective, that's coming the year that comes to 55,000 people attended, exceeding the 80 percent attention ratio. Among all I hope and hope that we can see it and that we can also work in committee with the high offices of the Council to be able to simplify and detect the deficiencies that every system like this one has. But, I mean, of course, in global numbers and global attention is improving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u253	...remarkably. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u254	Thank you very much, Counselor. At the end of this point, we will suspend the meeting until evening, until 4 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u255	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the losses caused by extreme climatic conditions in the agricultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u256	Mrs. Blanco has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u257	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Today I have to begin my speech by showing the disappointment and shame that this honourable Member has gone through by checking that, by wearing this simple t-shirt that makes something so difficult to understand and that puts something as demanding as "zero zone of drought", if he has demanded the comrades and companions of the farm in the Viana do Bolo area that are here today. That's why I light this shirt today, because sometimes, ladies, we forget that we are representatives of these people and that we are here to represent them. [[Applause]] This, Mr President, is not the JFK airport, this is the Galician Parliament, and it's extreme what the people who come here, the people who come to listen to this debate are getting dizzy. Good afternoon to you too, Counselor. For decades, an important part of society has been concerned about the phenomenon of climate change. It wouldn't be fair to not recognize and not to say today that the first ones who did so were the ecological organizations, those who watch for the protection of the natural environment and also those who have their livelihood in the field. You cost them a little more time. Only ten years ago, the current President of the Government denied the phenomenon of climate change by clinging to his scientific cousin. It's not just a threat to ecosystems, it's a threat to humans as a species more than we are on this planet. Now that late, evil and trace, and forced by evidence, recognize the problem, we're left with action to combat it. You don't have to see the photo of a polar bear trying to keep the balance in a piece of ice, the evidence reaches Galicia and, of course, reaches the province of Ourense as well. This picture, ladies and gentlemen, many of us could think it's from any part of Castile-Leon, from Castile-La Mancha, but no, this, Your Honor, is from Viana do Bolo, in the province of Ourense. [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez, from the gallery of speakers, shows a poster.]] This river is also in the same area, this river or the little water that remains in it. So this popular belief that repeats itself, that repeats citizenship constantly, that in Galicia remains water, that mantra so many times repeated and never corrected by the Government. But today what we've been talking about here is those who use the field as their livelihood. The situation is so worrying that we have been in the province of Ourense since January 13th, almost ten months. The Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation itself says this is the driest hydrological year since the year 82. I, Counselor, and our group, of course, fear not only for the ecosystems and for the supply of many towns and villages in the province of Ourense, too, as I told you, for those who have their livelihood in the field. Today I want to ask you about the measures that your government is going to take to help those affected in this epicenter of the agricultural disaster of the autonomous community of Greece, motivated not only by the drought but also by the frost and the end of August sarayabad. I want to be today, with humility, the voice of one of these people who is suffering from this problem, and I'm going to read a portion of a letter from a nurse to address you -- I don't know if the phone call is more important but I'd like you to pay a little attention -- "I'm a housekeeper and a chestnut producer from the Viana dobolo Town Hall, and it touched me with the misfortune or the virtue of getting into a project than I often wonder if I'd really do or wrong. That's the question I've been hearing from a few months ago. But when I suddenly hear a lot of friends and greedy and beekeepers say, "Don't rain," "I bought grass," "I bought straw," "I bought tacos," "I went with the tank to take water to the cows"... or when I hear a girl saying "My father has stuffed it up but this year there's no honey," Counsellor, I think this can't be happening, there's something to do. And I, always positive and thinking up, I say, don't worry, they have to help us, they can't let this disappear, it's the best thing we know to do and we're in the best place in the world doing what we like, and we have the right to live on our work without giving grief and without asking for alms. But the reality is that with this drought we are seeing how every day our livelihood is dying, and, if so, our farms are at risk of ruining and disappearing." And there are also some particular cases of neighbors and neighbors in this area, such as that of a sheepman with 19 heads of beef beef that has spent 40 rolls of grass in silo, 800 kilos of tacos. And you have to get the water, so they drink, with a tank, spending about 10,000 liters of water a week. This year's forage productions are ridiculous, and you can talk about a farmer who picked up 880 forage rolls last year, this year's only 320. "And I talk to beekeepers," said this farmer, "and I fall soul to heaven. I barely write what they're telling me. A beekeeper who usually collects, by the hives he has, 40,000 kilograms of honey this year, being optimistic, will collect only 5,000." There are young people, Madam Counsellor, like this nurse of Viana do Bolo who joined the farm this year in the province of Ourense, the viticulture, the livestock, sometimes compromising the heritage of her own family, and who is in a very serious economic situation. These are specific examples, but I can give you data, not from your advice because we don't know them, but from trade union organizations such as Agricultural Unions, which places this outcome at 14.5 million euros in losses, and people who will not have income but a 10% or 15% increase to look after the second sprout, for example, from the vines after the frosts. In chestnut, it calculates a loss of 1.5 million euros. You shouldn't, Counselor, have to be wasting time on my intervention explaining to you what the reality of rural life is in Ourense province. You should know her. I'm the first question I want to ask you today is that you don't know her or that you don't want to do anything about it? Because I didn't see her meeting with the livestock, with the farmers' representatives, and taking a picture of Santiago with two mayors, Cenlle and Castrelo de Mine. Counselor, another question: why do you leave other municipalities very affected outside these aids?, why are there no help for Ribadavia?, why are there no help for Valdeorras?, why are there no help for the Eastern Oresian mountain? We've also seen it in the DOG by distributing aid for the promotion of agricultural insurance, insurance that you know you won't solve this problem, first, because banks don't lend money to those who lack income; secondly, because to return them, you have to expect them to have higher incomes, something that cannot be so for those who will suffer the consequences of adverse climate conditions; and because even insurance aid is so miserable, Counsellor, that in some cases they don't cover more than two euros. No special Igape credit lines for these people. So far, at least, we have no news about it. Ah! and you did something else also that I don't want you to forget today: they sent the captive to water points that are for the fight against the fire in which there was no water, counselor lady, two very important subjects that are of their competence as the fight against fire and as the management of agriculture. You made such a ridiculous thing that they came there, after walking some miles of these people with your cows, and there was no water, Counselor, there was no drop of water at those points where you sent them. End the letter this young lady, Counselor, asking her to enable solutions already for these sectors, and reminding her that they don't want any help. They and they, Counsellor, need help, and they need a government that cares about and cares about the citizenship that lives in rural areas and that doesn't do it only when it's the election campaign, that they do it too, even if it is, in the first year of government. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. The truth is that one is sometimes called attention to the aggressiveness with which one is speaking, because it is also believed that with that aggressiveness at the end something more dissolves or more reaches people. No, ma'am, it's not like that. [[Applause]] First of all, because it allows me, and since, indeed, I am responsible for the rural environment, I wanted to remind all of you that today is World Milk Day in schools, which today is doing a very good job on the part of Inlac in the various schools of Galicia, as it could not be otherwise. And I want to remind all of you, one color or another, that we have an obligation, and that obligation is to promote our products and that our children, at least, are able to introduce three dairy intakes throughout the day — and the power, which we all do. I just remind you of it because it's mandatory, and it's not just an obligation to come here with a terrible gesture and with a fear of not knowing what. However, look, they can accuse me of anything else, but they can never accuse me of not receiving mayors, not being with people, not going to that area you vote for called "zero" -- that for me is not a zero zone, it's a fantastic area and that little good publicity can be done just by shirts, you have to go a little bit further. Of all the meteorological incidences, which there were many this year, indeed — there were frosts, there was sarabia and, after the sarabia, because there is indeed drought, this council has knowledge because for that are the agricultural offices in different places, for that are the districts. Apart from us, we have the different centers and we have technicians who transfer them to us. But not only that, of course, that the first thing this advisor does is to get in touch with the different designations of origin, with the different IXPs and also with the unions, Madam. But I seek to do it seriously and not to launch, as many times do some unions, certain numbers that after the passage of time become a real lie, as I will reveal to you throughout my intervention. The Council, as I told you, has been in contact with these collectives at all times. And these are the collectives you were naming: the chestnut, passing through the wine, passing through the potato, and also by associations that are very closely linked to the cattle in extended terms. We can talk about ice cream, we can mix everything up. And I, if you like, tell them, so that it's completely transparent, what this advisor is doing. And don't tell me no, because it's doing it, and besides, it's publicly and it's also part of the different organizations. As for the late April 2017 frosts in those places in Galicia which are included in the different areas of what are the designations of origin or quality indicative, the first news, first, came from the conditions in the area of Monterrey. And we could quickly see that not only were these areas affected, but there were also areas of Ribeiro, Valdeorras or the Sacred River, which not only affected the wine but also affected chestnuts, among other productions. In the face of this situation, the first thing you do is to send the Counsellor's technicians and make the first evaluation; the evaluation that was done in Lugo and Ourense. It seems to me very good that the honourable Member is focusing in Ourense, but, look, they're not just going to help for two municipalities, the aid is for all the affected areas. And all the delimited areas that have been affected in this case, both by frost and hail, are in Lugo and also in Ourense. Fruit of these jobs — the first ones, which were ice cream — are obtained provisional data. And the fruit of that provisional data starts working. This was in April. A comparison is made and technical assistance is requested from wine growers. They give technical assistance to wine growers and act in the vineyards. This aid was provided by the Galician Viticulture and Enology Station, by EVEG, with the collaboration and the preparation of a document — collaboration they had from the agricultural offices and also from the different designations of origin —. And it was a technical document to act in the vineyard after the frosts. On the other hand, in connection with technical assistance, I'll tell you that on May 8th, there are a few days at the same facility, where 80 wine growers and wine-makers attended, in order to advise them in the restrooms. Because there was work to be done at rest, and this was not the usual thing and they needed technical help. Once this first damage assessment has been carried out and with technical assistance it starts to work on other lines, help lines that have been established for those affected. In addition, when it comes to a national problem, this type of aid is coordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture. Subsequently, from the Rural Council, one of the visits to the areas, and directly after the frosts — specifically in the designation of origin of Monterrey — are several requests made to us; and, in addition, requests that are actually sensible. One of these requests is to increase the aid of agricultural insurance. I think they should study a little better for you as far as agricultural insurance is concerned and as far as we can get. And that's why a commission has been created. But you don't think the unions asked for it, no, it was the administration itself that held your hand to tell us what could be improved. And it's already improved, Madam. They are also involved in tax subsidies, which are already being requested and which will have Ourense and Lugo delimited areas. We are asked for soft credits — and we have them on track — and subsidies for the rest or replantation of irrecoverable vineyards from the frosts. The latter is already in progress, and it was 1.4 million euros. Immediately after all this, as I told you, the Territorial Commission on Agricultural Insurance is called upon to study the situation of the various lines, also to ask them to speed up payments as soon as possible because they are necessary for them. There's the president of ENESA, he's the CEO of Ganderia. But we didn't want to stay there and, therefore, we also invite trade union organizations and different denominations of origin. And there is a commitment on the part of this Council, and that commitment is to increase, in most cases, to the limit — which is 40% — the premium of the different insurances, both for the vine and for the potato and for the cereal, but also for the chestnut, because that is possible. The proposals, proposals made by the sector, and the vast majority, moreover, welcomed by the Ministry of Agriculture, which are already bearing fruit for the coming season. The Rural Media Council was aware, this year and before all these phenomena began, of the reduction of 10 points applied by the Ministry for Insurance. And what we did was we increased by the Galician board these 10 points that the Ministry had lowered. That way, as I told you, we're going to reach an average of 40% on the insurance base. We pulled forward -- and I told you before -- an order. And that order was for the replanting of vineyards, which is already in progress and is 1.4 million euros. And what formulas did we have in order to reach the most affected areas? Well, five points above the rest of the people who ask for replantation. Because you'll know, as I know, that to get an order of help if you need some reports and some arguments, and these were the ones we had. The Council participated at all times in Madrid in several of the meetings organized by the Climate Adversities Working Group in the Ministry of Agriculture. And then the drought was analyzed, the frost was analyzed, and the hail was analyzed. Evaluations made in the different denominations will serve, among other things, as I told them, to make the proposal — which is already formulated — to the Ministry of Farm to apply a decrease in the IRPF modules in the areas of Viana do Bolo, but in the rest of the areas affected in Ourense and, as I said earlier, in the areas of Lugo, from 18% to 13%. This same measure will apply not only to vineyards but also to all types of crops affected. Precise management has been performed. And through the Igape, a liquidity aid is called. This was approved on September 7 by the Board of Trustees, the regulatory bases were approved. And then what we do is they have access to the line of support and of adequacy of funding for the production and processing of grapes, chestnuts, potatoes, cereals, vegetables, fruit and also those of extensive livestock — those affected by different weather phenomena throughout this year. And it's a help you're managing the Igape. This call aims to mobilise EUR 3.5 million. And I'm sure there won't be any livestock left outside, no livestock, no winegrowers, that's what I'm asking for, because that's the commitment that the Government of Galicia has acquired, the commitment of the Union and the Council of the Rural Environment. They're liability refinancing lines and they're circular support lines as well. That means, Madam, that since the zero minute and in the zero zone, but also in the rest of the areas, we have been at technical level, we have been with different help. But I'm afraid this isn't over. And it doesn't end because, when we want to talk about data from potato gathering, wine gathering or chestnut gathering, in many of them we haven't finished the season, with which you, on the one hand, are asking for direct help because you understand that it's the easiest one, and you really shouldn't be fooled — we must be as prudent as possible politicians — and you, who are asking for catastrophic areas that really don't exist like this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u261	...but they're emergency areas, they have to know that at least there's got to be 30% less harvest. And that's what I have to do and I have to do it, which doesn't mean this Councillory isn't going to get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u262	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u263	Thank you very much, President. I didn't need you, Counselor, a class of yours about how to be. That's the first thing I want to tell you. I'll tell you in another tone, if you feel more comfortable. [[Murmurs.]] You want to know what aggressiveness is? [[Applause]] Well, look, today, exactly, I can explain and I can tell you. Aggressiveness, for example, is the technicians by finering families that traditionally in Galicia are dedicated to viticulture while there are people related to the People's Party, with their vineyards of Falcon Crest, where Portuguese workers are working without a contract, who are simply working for food. That's the aggressiveness of your Council. That's aggressiveness, while trying to fine families that traditionally sell, because that's a reality in this country. [[Applause]] Look, I don't know what's bothering you or that rush of yours, and not just you, but the People's Party, about constantly criminalizing trade union organizations, what you're really asking you to do is do what you don't do. Maybe this bothers you, the tractors in Viana do Bolo, the demonstrations in Ribadavia with more than 1,500 people. Counsellor, if this bothers you, if you are disturbed by the mobilizations of trade union organizations and ask you to do your job, what you have to do is do it. You talked about us being reckless for direct help. Well, you just recognized that you yourself were an unwise. Because, of course, last year — an election year — I remember that your advisor's office had no problem publishing an aid order on September 16, 2016, direct help to the area of the Sacred Ribeira. And you didn't expect them, you didn't analyze them so much, you didn't go through the technicians, you didn't turn them around. Why? Because we had to respond to a very serious crisis in this area as well. What's wrong? Is the speed related to when the elections take place? Do we have to have elections every year in this autonomous community to have a Rural Media Advisor who does his job? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Agricultural insurance. You're talking about 40% of them. For many years, these union organizations you criminalize have been asking for 65%. If you wanted to, you could adapt them to the Greek reality, because you know — even better than I am — I am convinced, Counsellor, that they are designed for large plots of southern Spain, not for the lands of this autonomous community, which obliges winegrowers to have to secure all their vineyards regardless of the risk of each one, at the cost that it may entail for farmers. Look, Counselor, the letter from this shopkeeper ends up saying, "It surprises us that in the legislate qualified as the rural one, for the special interest that would be paid to it, they forget the commitments and are giving their backs to the viability of our farms, and that it is currently at stake, in an area as long as it is and the province of Ourense, our work. Counselor, we too are Greeks and Greeks and we deserve the same deal." Look, to me what I'd like now is that I really clarify -- because I have difficulty understanding it, and it's not like you didn't clearly explain it -- when they're going to get these direct aids, when they're going to be published in the CEO and when they're going to be able to have access to farmers, beekeepers and livestock; whether you're gonna clear it, say an approximate date, or whether they're really going to arrive or not. However, there will be a motion as a result of this plea where you can see the People's Party's commitment in this matter. You still don't answer why you met only those two mayors and why you didn't do it with others affected. I don't only refer to the Viana do Bolo area. I also talked about Ribeiro and I also spoke about Ribadavia. And I want to ask you — because the mayor himself has already told you — why he didn't meet with him if there was a motion approved in the Council of Ribadavia, precisely the day before you were at the opening of the Ribadavia Wine Fair, unanimously from all the groups — including the People's Party — to claim those direct aid and there is a reminder behind the government commission to ask for help for that area. Why don't you put them on fire? Why is it different between each other? Honestly, Counsellor, it seems that you have met with two mayors — yes, one who is not from the People's Party to make everything seem plural — to cover the file, no less or less, leaving other areas of the province of Ourense completely abandoned. Today, with your permission, and, Counselor, without any kind of aggressiveness, you can believe me, I'm going to deliver this letter to you writing this crate. So you don't want to listen and you don't want to talk to farmers and livestock, because today, with this letter, read, reflect and think if you're really doing your job. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Closure of this plea. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u265	Good afternoon again. There's gestures and theater. I'll take the gesture. I'm going to the theater when I can, but within the political sphere, as little as possible to be. And I'm saying "the power to be" because of the respect we have to have to these gloves and geese that actually work a lot and always depend on the atmospheric phenomena, and more recently. [[Applause]] When you went out here saying that if you were chasing relatives who were going to help with agricultural work and that others at the PP were doing I don't know what things, please be brave and present your complaint. Or I'll just give you my turn to say names and names. [[Strong murmurers.]] And that's what he has to do. I mean, defame, as little as possible; act, always. I believe the government will not hesitate to send the inspections when certain things are reported to be happening. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand -- and it seems like a lot of cutting headlines -- today I was talking about I went to Pontevedra at a school to promote milk but I also promote all kinds of products. We were able to put it on school menus too as a chestnut dessert, which everybody said we didn't, and eventually we got the chestnuts to be dessert not only in Galicia but in the rest of the school dining rooms — that's work, chestnuts or chestnuts, as they want, that alone doesn't live. Well, right there, they asked me why some of them reported persecution. And I said clearly that there are two things that are quite different. On the one hand, tradition. And tradition is that some neighbors help others pick up potatoes, make corn silage or pick up vines, or even chestnuts. That's tradition. And the retiree goes, the boy goes and the neighbor goes, and there's nothing going on. In contrast, we have to monitor, where true companies are already, those timemakers who — who will be with me — must be assured for the good of the timer — because we are pursuing irregularities — and also for the good of that exploitation, because it is not going to be that he even has an accident and the little he can save at last will have to spend it. That's what I'm saying and what I repeat. And, of course, there's tradition and there's, on the other hand, what is already the true business activity to be controlled. But — I want to insist — you report it, don't doubt it. We do what we do — or we try to do — is serious, rigorous work and constant work. And that constant work worked as a result from the beginning what I had said to him earlier. And that result is, on the one hand, technical assistance — which they have had — and on the other hand, aid to plantations — which have also been published and which are already in progress, which is EUR 1.4 million. There are the liquidity aid, which will ultimately mobilise 3.5 million euros. There's the downsides of the IRPF, of course. And when they finish the different campaigns we'll see the possibilities to keep drawing lines of help. But I think, apart from talking about what happened in the different areas, we have to talk about the good product that's picking up Galicia. Because it's very beneficial for those who produce it and also very beneficial for those who sell it. And when we talk about balance sheets, crop scales, and we venture to say that in certain areas 80% or 70% will not be collected, because I tell them what I've finished right now or about to finish. Of course, from the chestnut, which I've been in Verín, I've been with the sector and I've been with the union organization that organized them along with the IXP of the chestnut. Believe me, you're not going to confront me with the unions. I sit with the unions, I don't demon the unions. I only ask for responsibility from the unions. And we've reached agreements, as we have arrived in many areas related to fire personnel. I will tell you, within the denominations of origin, that, for example, the Sacred Ribeira, which remains open but is already ending, because it declares 5.3 million kilograms of grapes against 5.6 million in last year, a 5% less. Ribeiro declares 9.4 million kilos of grapes against 11.6 of the previous year, 18% less. In Monterrey they declare 3 million kilos of grapes against 4.4 of the previous year, 31% less. In Valdeorras, 4.2 million kilos of grapes compared to 4.5 of last year, 6% less. Of course, in the Low Ries — which if it was dry but did not have the ice or the hail — they declare 39.2 million kilograms against 33.4 kilograms of the previous year. And the variation would be positive for the different wines of Galicia at 2.69% more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u266	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u267	Well, it's true that with less content in the other designations of origin. So what I want to tell you is that those reports that said there was no way to collect, that there wasn't that 70%, because these are realities that we can now see. Hence the serious and rigorous work of an administration in the face of the low seriousness of some political groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u269	All the more, we keep the lines open so we can help both the farmers and the farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u270	Thank you, Counselor. At the end of this debate, I think it is appropriate to comment, Mrs Blanco — since you made an allusion to me from the rostrum — that this Parliament is characterised by respect for the guests you propose. And we have facilitated access according to standards that have been established for some time and are known to all. If this Parliament is characterized by something, it is to facilitate access. There are other institutions where they don't even let them in. That's right. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that's right, Mrs. Blanco. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's like that. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's right! [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Blanco, that's right, and I think it's appropriate to tell you. That's it! [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's over. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Let's go to questions to the Government. Question from Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the conditions for the allocation of the additional fund to the Local Cooperation Fund for 2017 set out in the Order of 7 July 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u271	To put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u272	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you well know, the Law on General Budgets of the Autonomous Community, in Article 54, established the percentage of local cooperation fund participation at 2,4294806%, i.e. some more than 115 million euros. In Law 3/2017, a new percentage of the Local Cooperation Fund is set at 2,3787935 per cent for the 2017 financial year, i.e. lowering the percentage. Already in the Order of 7 July 2017 establishing the conditions for the allocation of the additional fund to the Local Cooperation Fund for 2017, in its own explanatory statement of the order, it says textually that "the impetus of measures encouraging the effective and efficient management of the public resources of the Galician municipalities is one of the main objectives of the Galician Union, and that it aims to contribute to the continued provision of services to citizens by improving the living conditions that meet their needs, while reducing the costs that the provision of these services transfers to the tax burden that supports neighbourhood". And in Article 1, Object says that "the additional fund of the Local Cooperation Fund for 2017, with €2,236,227, is intended in its entirety for those municipalities resulting from municipal merger or voluntary incorporation processes to other municipalities". As you well know, both the Spanish Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government lay down and enshrine the principles of autonomy and financial adequacy of local authorities. And the Galician Autonomy Statute itself states that local authorities' income will be received through the Galician community, which will distribute them in accordance with the legal criteria that it establishes both as regards state income and as regards unconditional subsidies. It must be borne in mind that the Local Cooperation Fund has decreased considerably since 2009, i.e. in eight years nearly EUR 4.5 million has been lost to local entities, according to the data provided by Fegamp itself. So our question is clear. As a parliamentary group, we asked the Government: does the Government consider that of the 313 municipalities in Galicia only four — those corresponding to the mergers or in the process of mergers — need these measures to encourage effective and efficient management of the public resources of the Greek municipalities? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, we could do a more technical debate on the distribution of funds according to the Local Cooperation Fund and some source and therefore some conditioner for fate. But I don't think it's the forum. I believe that in Parliament we have to speak in political terms, at least in political terms especially. And so I want to do it, because you understand that what you question with this question — so I understand it — is whether to promote mergers, if mergers are good. And, therefore, the conclusion that I draw — at least from the statement or from what you have said here — is that you consider that you do not and therefore do not have to be particularly supported. I'm glad, moreover, that I rectified — I thought it was a mistake — because in your question you put 414 municipalities, and indeed it's 313, even though you did everything you could in the first merger, Oza-Cesuras, and the other, Sardinian-Cotobade, so they could go on in at least 315. I suppose they'd like a lot more. But not to us, we didn't hide it at all. So your question is: does the German Government consider that of the 313 — rectified — municipalities in Galicia only four need measures to encourage effective and efficient management of the public resources of the Greek municipalities? No, of course, we all believe that they need incentives for efficient management, and that's why we put them. Now, we're doing special work. I pretended to be something we've never hidden. And I suppose it won't surprise you or anyone in the House who now finds out that the German Government — who discovers it now — makes a special bet for mergers and therefore encourages them in every order, also in economic order. We do it, we do it by legislation of local state regime, which speaks of direct encouragement from mergers, they do it by many scholars, they do it by a lot of opinion in the media. And by the way, Red Localis does it — and if not, I'm sorry, but I think so — for which Mr. Leicega is part. I suppose you don't have to agree at all, but one of the marks that this forum has is that local government experts and opinionaries are betting on mergers. And it seems very good to us. So, of course, we'll continue to support them. And what do you say about mergers? Well, neither one thing nor the other thing, that lukewarmness of saying they're in favor, but every time there's a specific case, they do everything they can to keep it from going forward. And the last occurrence they've ever had was to say that there's a study to be done. They say: No, no, it's just that what the Government of Galicia is doing is not appropriate and a study has to be done to see where it needs to be merged. And then I ask, after that study, what, do the results of that study have to force them to merge even if they don't want to? Is that your model? Is that what to do? It is no longer necessary to encourage the municipalities to merge voluntarily and to have the positive results that are clearly having the two municipalities merged. No, no, you have to say that you have to merge, that you have to do a study, that you have to do some technicians, and then you have to do them. We are not going to do this, and therefore we will continue to encourage voluntary mergers and we will continue to help the municipalities who want to take that step.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u276	Because we believe that voluntarily it is a step forward and that the sure time will give us reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u277	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u278	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, we are not at odds with mergers like this in principle. If it seems to us that mergers should be done with a previous study to find out if that merger that will result from the union of two municipalities will meet the objectives envisaged by the Council itself in Galicia. And that's what we set ourselves up. In any case, my question is, why does this part of the local cooperation funds not have the same rights as all the Greek municipalities? Do you think the financial situation of the other Greek municipalities is good? So why don't you split up between all the Greek municipalities? And apart from that, you bet on fusion. But really, when you were betting on the merger, in the announcement you made here, the president of the Galician Union said it was based on rationalization of services and, in addition, to reduce costs. If this assumes that the Galician Union is going to devote most of its benefits, on the one hand, to the Local Cooperation Fund and, on the other hand, to absolutely all the subsidies it publishes to the Galician Union, we don't see where that benefit is, that rationalization, and if we see an important damage that goes against the rest of the municipalities that have not been merged or that are not in the fusion phase. That is our concern and therefore we ask them to distribute resources among all with the pre-established criteria agreed with the Fegamp, but all the municipalities of Galicia are included. And the merged will already have by themselves the sum of one municipality and more of the other than they would individually correspond. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u279	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. This question is addressed to you by the Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you understand perfectly well. First, they don't want us to support mergers, they don't feel good. It's just that it's very nice to say theoretically—they always say the same thing—we, in principle, do not oppose mergers, but—if they read their thoughts—always and when there's no merger, because as soon as there's a merger proposal we'll shoot at them, we'll turn around, we'll say all the bad things — as these two said — we'll go to the courts, we'll lose and we'll keep saying that we don't oppose mergers. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, this is exactly what happened with the two, and I assure you that it would happen with the third, with the fourth and with all those who volunteered and starting from the autonomy of democratically elected municipal officials to take this step, which is nothing simple, which is very measured, and which you cannot say — that I had responsibilities in the local administration — that they oppose mergers because there are no studies. Hey! If the Local Administration Act — which governs when I am the director of local administration, when you are, when you continue to refuse — sets clear parameters that must be met to see if a merger is viable! I know you said no. I know -- and I'm sure you too -- that they resorted precisely to saying that this was not done. And we all know that they went to the courts and that the courts gave the reason to the councils that freely wanted to merge and to the Council of Galicia that supported all this; to you, no. But give it to him, tell him again that they're in favor of mergers! —I insist, always and when there is no merger. And, look, as long as there are no mergers, it would be very good to have some responsibility -- let me tell you, this is a country pact -- and to say that there are services that, as the municipalities don't join together, they won't be able to lend them. And, therefore, it is very good that they are encouraged — which does not seem very well either — the formulas for cooperation and, of course, to be told that the councils must be serious in their accounts and that, if they do not report, there are no subsidies. That's what we did, you didn't. And then there is a special incentive for cooperation. And if we can get to the merger, we'll encourage it too. I suppose you know -- something else here doesn't say it -- that this background -- by the way, this distribution is approved by the Fegamp. I am grateful that you, with a president of the Fegamp and mayor of the Socialist Party, understand, when you agree with the Council of Galicia, that you can make that agreement in which it is said that, if on 30 September — which is what you say to yourself — there are no new merger processes, an important part, almost half, will be divided between the municipalities of less than 15,000 inhabitants — that to give them to the others there are already some Members, so we are seeing. Among the municipalities of less than 15,000 inhabitants, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Murmurs.]] So that's what we're doing and we're not hiding it. What we're never going to do -- and I'm telling you -- is force the municipalities to merge, we're not doing any studies, we're not going to do what's going on in Andalusia, where there's eight segregations going on and no mergers. That's not our model. It's not a model of the future for anyone. And, of course, what we're not going to do is to force what the municipalities don't want. If not, at the end of the year, we would — you have already said and finished, Mr. President — what Fegamp said in 2008: that there was a worrying tendency of the Galician Union in 2008 to usurp competences — it is written, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo; if you want, I can move it, even though you were director of local administration and sure you knew it — and to invade the powers of local authorities and leave to the municipalities a role of mere collaborators, often upset, for many things that I wanted to do to Junta at that time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u282	Fortunately now it's changed, and I'm very glad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u283	Thank you, Vice President. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the settlement by The Navigator Company of a base of operations in Galicia for the collection of eucalyptus wood for the manufacture of paper pulp
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. On July 19, the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic approved a series of measures to limit and reduce plantations of species such as eucalyptus. Clearly, this is not due to a momentary whim or a new variable in the world paper folder market. It is the result of an analysis of the Portuguese forest plunged into a chaos similar to that of Galicia and which causes that year after year, and especially in the summer season, the fires are, as in Galicia, the bread of every day. Leiria's fire was the casual response — or not — and with his dead accelerated the measures that had to be taken. The National Forest Strategy provides that the area of eucalyptus does not exceed the current 812,000 hectares, and develops mechanisms that lead to their reduction and increase the surface of oaks and other leafy trees by 40%. It's probably a lighthouse, a smoke curtain, a pressure strategy from the Portuguese pastry to the Portuguese Government. The announcement was made with the gash of the capital after the 64 dead, the wounded and the terror of hell that were these uncausual occurrences. Here we're going double-handedly in eucalyptus, in spatial planning... Minto, with the messy territory, with the fires at the door of the house, at the shaft, and with intense pressure from Ence and other partners with no alternatives to the mountain thanks to their policies. Because, less than a year ago, you were talking about limiting the expansion of the eucalyptus in Ourense and in the east and south of Lugo, and aerialating it to the four winds as if we were caught by the flag in that mountain struggle, in which they know — and it hurts — that we are right. They were talking, and they were also advertising their media, which are all of them, saying it was the year of the countryside, that they were going to plant a million chestnut trees. I'll go back to the question. Since far from retreating because of Pedrogao's fire, the Portuguese Government was still ahead, Navigator, the Portuguese pastry, announced a month ago that Galicia would come to supply itself with eucalyptus, or possibly something else, which would be more serious. Counsellor, are you aware that, if the pastry comes to supply Galicia with eucalyptus wood, the market will have a rise and, since its government takes care of the forest matter, are we going to have to lock the house pots? I mean, at this point, you'd have to know something about Navigator Company's intentions and something they'll do, if the news from the possible operational base in Galicia is true. What does the Government intend to do in the face of the threat to the sustainability and the already damaged balance of our mountain, the announced installation as a wood catcher, or perhaps something else, of Navigator Company?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u285	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, there is in Galicia a forest plan, a forest plan which is not now, which is a document that was agreed upon on its day and which was also unanimously. And of course, we're working on reviewing that forest plan. There are no flags here. There are no flags here. We're nothing more than each other, there's just realities. And those realities at the end are an election. And that's where people want to support. In this case they decided to support the People's Party and others will decide to support the BNG. That means we won't be doing so bad, and we won't defend our Greek forest. Well, it's true that we have to continue to regulate, no doubt, because the word "prohibited" doesn't even like it in adolescence. But if we have to regulate and it's also true that we must continue to dynamic our economy. With which, a forest plan is estimates, and within these estimates, we have numbers. It's about predicting a certain situation with purpose, and that's what forest planning is going on in the medium and long term. And now he played to review, but it's about to review as it was previously done with all the links in the chain, but also with all the society that feels. To be able, to think of that society that lives in rural, rural and rural areas. As for the current limitations, there are them in Galicia about the eucalyptus. And he's also chasing for this to be so. And these are limitations which, in addition, are contemplated within the Law of the Mountains of Galicia. So in this legislation it is established, for example — as you all know — that these trees cannot be planted on agricultural land, neither on the banks of the rivers, that there must be distances on the roads and on the roads, depending on their width, as well as on the proximity to the houses. In other words, in the butchers of the houses, no eucalyptus should be planted. And there are also limitations on this crop on the Natura Network. And this is contemplated in the law, in the Law of the Mountains of Galicia, where such restockings are prohibited. But even in certain areas where the ones that were planted were respected at that time, when they were cut, they can't rest again. However, there are specific conditions and changes in activity. And they're changes of activity that the municipalities are asking for because they're the closest to those who live and therefore determine. And there are some areas where these changes occur. Yes, you can't switch from agrarian to forest with species of rapid growth, but they'll always have it for leafy caducifoli. In addition, plantations for walnut fruit, cherries, chestnuts or similar species can be carried out in the same way, whether in agrarian or in a forest. I mean, regulation exists. And the control of that regulation thinks I'm trying to do it. I'd like you, in those municipalities that you rule, please, too, to hold your hand so that it could be possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u287	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, can you tell me what a forest plan is for which you've rejected everything that you said and doubled the hectares planned for the year 2032 and which in the last ten years has an increase of area treed with 12,000 hectares/year eucalyptus? Can you tell me where the thousands of tons of oak wood come from that are usually cut out in this country? When will the eucalyptus return at 30,000 hectares of official land land? This puts your policy on the mountain on edge. It's not your policy, it's your policy. It's clearly defined and clearly used, and there's no more twists. [[Applause]] You can tell us how much they want from the multifunctional mountain, you can tell us the stories they want, that they like us too. But they're bothering us because they're stealing our words just like they did with a lot of other things. But we won't be robbed of concepts. What is true is that at the present time it is not only threatening us with the threat of biomass that is intended to be, it seems to be, to build — you have removed the limits of biomass that was there — not only is that threatening us, but it may be that Navigator Company — that has already succeeded in pressuring the Portuguese Government and has already sweetened the measures that I was going to take, according to what I saw the last time I was there — and this is a reality, and you have to have foreseen this because, of course, this country that you will not be able to endure is the new duplication before 2032 of the hectares treed with eucalyptus. And if you're going to modify the forest plan, you might change it in this sense; that is, expanding the Eucalyptus top to plant. This is a sadness but a reality, and it's the reality that we bring him day after day, day after day here. And I just want to remind you that yesterday there was such contempt for technicians who talk about fourth- and fifth-generation fires that took place like a ladder, like a chacota, by a deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u289	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u290	...of his party. And this is serious, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u291	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u292	I mean, fires are serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u293	Thank you, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u294	And that of the investigators, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u295	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Closing time for this question, Counselor of the Rural Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We said we had a law, we said we had a forest plan, we said we were doing a review of the forest plan, and believe me that, in fact, we have to do the functional mount. But we have to make a mountain that is also economically useful to those who are living in rural areas. And when I told you that we were doing checks, it was that, from 2012 until 2016, some 1,600 notices of parcels were made that didn't meet. But I want to tell you that only in 2017 a total of 995 alerts were made and a total of 229 files opened. That's the reality. But at the same time I also tell you to hold your hand, because we can do the review of the forest plan completely consensual. There is a consensus on the bases, and these bases must now be broadened. But I ask them, please, not to have a double speech. They don't have a speech here, in Parliament, and another speech outside or when they rule in their municipalities. We have many examples where you are able to do so. Our speech is the same here as anywhere else. And when they're able to hold their hand, but not just to make politics with fire or eucalyptus, then Iranians are much better at all. And society believes that it will thank you. Just as I told you about these 995 and 239 cases, which don't hurt our hands when you do them, I also tell you that we have 3,000 other reports of possible ongoing infringements. But apart from these infringements, believe me that we are enabling other systems, and that system is permitting the areas of irregular plantations to give a relevant time and that enforcement is carried out. In fact, you were talking about the duplication of the masses of eucalyptuses and that we are now, according to the last inventory, on 430,000 hectares, but I also have to remind you that the masses of caducifoli (carbs, chestnuts, bidders) have increased, and we have increased from 240.000 acres to 440,000 acres. If you believe the eucalyptus, you tell me -- it's the same inventory -- why you don't believe the leafy ones. If we had to talk about using masses, I could also give you data. Indeed, they currently cut around 3.75 million cubic centimeters per year of eucalyptus, which comes to be 65% of the annual growth of the masses, and, on the other hand, of the 0.25 million cubic centimeters per year, 12% of their annual growth. However, forestry policy must try to improve socio-economic viability with different forest resources, indeed, not only with eucalyptus, and for that we are; we are going to increase the masses of cadifoli...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u297	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u298	...and the profits gained within the mountain essentially. I have that hand so that where they rule, which is in few places, they also do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u299	Thank you very much. Question by Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Juan José Merlo Lorenzo of the G.P. of En Marea, on the deadline set for the Galician Union to achieve the integral sanitation of the Welsh rivers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u300	Question by Mrs Carmen Santos Queiruga of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u301	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, over 20,000 people live in Galicia for fishing and shellfishing. We no longer count here the number of indirect jobs of this activity and the vital wealth that this implies for coastal regions, as you will know. Our group is very concerned, in view of the situation of the laughter of our land with objective data, so we want to ask you about this question. We see with concern the disappearance of certain bivalve molluscs in the rivers, the closure of certain areas of extraction by the quality of the waters, the threat of damage to the shellfish by toxins — as it happened last year in the stream of Walls and Girl, and we hope that this year will not pass again — with the economic loss and a little with the shame that happened last year with the paralysis of the catches and their return. And not to mention our logical ecological and public health concern, either. That is why we have come to this Parliament to ask you specifically about these issues of river sanitation, and especially for you to explain to us, apart from how the situation is, that you have really planned to do to keep it healthy and healthy, and you know the Welsh laughs and get it back to the people. For us it must be an absolute priority of this Government. You always say it's a priority, but the truth is, the facts say everything else. Currently, according to the Galician Waters, about 300 spills are registered in our rivers. One of the most affected is the Arousa creek, with 100 spill points. This situation directly affects fishing and shellfish. Endorsed species such as fine plum or Berbecue, as we have stated, explained and taken initiatives to Commission 9a, which Mr Crespo already knows. And we also see how the fall of these species has evolved. Especially since the People's Party ruled, captures of the babous plum in the creek of Walls and Girl fell by 68% and ending by 81%. We've been the other day on the Testal range and it seems this year follows the trend. And what measures do we see? Well, Irisory investment in lines of research to find out why this phenomenon is happening and how it is happening, and that's what we have professionals of international prestige in marine research here in Galicia. We also don't really see effective measures by your advisor, and this data of the fall of the species is the clear evidence of this situation. In June, through the En Marea Group in Congress, we put forward a motion precisely on which the Executive was urged to clean up and preserve our rivers. We hope for you right now a real commitment, made and not promises and empty words, to make and not to say. You said in April that 2020 should be completed stream sanitation planning as well as all the infrastructures run or in service. That's why, in view of the precedents of this Government, it promises, but then the execution shines by its absence — otherwise it is the laugh of Burgo — and we want to ask in particular, and that they respond to the truth, what is the deadline set by the Council of Galicia to achieve the integral cleansing of the rivers of Galicia, in view of the situation of these and the despair of the sailors and sailors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u303	Thank you very much, President. Go ahead, Mrs. Santos, my special sensitivity to the seafood sector. I don't know if you know that I was delegated to the Fisheries Council for almost four years. I can even speak of the names of many of the bosses of these confrries and even of the maricadores. So, I think that as a Government, not only from the Environmental Council, but also from the Council of the Sea, we work everywhere every day, absolutely every day, to improve the situation in which the people of the sea find themselves. I will, of course, speak of the only thing that belongs to me, which is exclusively the sanitation of our rivers and carry forward the hydrological plans, that the Government of Galicia's board compromises and marks the roadmap, and of course also carries investment together. We have a new plan now in operation, which is until 2020. I'm talking about 150 measures that will develop from here to 2020. We are talking about 654 million euros, of which, by 2020, will be invested in the areas of sanitation — only in the field of sanitation, not in the field of supply — 130 million euros. As you said, I have responded and ratified it again, it will be in 2020 when all the infrastructures that are already described will be here. There is a roadmap written with names and surnames for each of these investments. They'll be either closed or finished or, if not, running. When you ask this question, you make a series of statements that I obviously do not share because you are absolutely wrong. You say, in particular: promise and don't execute. I think it's important to be informed and, above all, to see it, because it's true that the debuggers don't disappear, they are, physically they exist, and they can also have even when it was the work and when it was put into operation. It was this Government, of the People's Party, which invested more than EUR 1,100 million — which you think little to me — in terms of supply and sanitation, of which EUR 600 million with names and surnames are a reality today in the area of purification and sanitation in the streams of the Crown. It was 350 of the performances that were performed in 165 municipalities just for sanitation. There were 300 supply actions in 186 municipalities. Since 2009, Government of the People's Party, there have been 45 new debuggers serving a population of 1.7 million Greeks and Greeks. But I'll remember with names and surnames. I live, today, you have a debugger, which is already under test, which is 230 million euros. The largest investment in the hydrological history of our community that has been made in a river and in a municipality, specifically in Vigo Town Hall. I say this because sometimes people seem to say that the board doesn't invest in Vigo; it's 230 million euros. Burgo's laugh, which is the responsibility of the Government of Galicia in matters of sanitation to this day, because this council will, is closed. There's nothing else to be done about sanitation in the Burgo's creek of Galician Union. Last year they invested, they're already auctioned into work, 6 billion euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u304	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u305	...6.1 million euros in the Burgo stream. There's a lot more laughs left, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u306	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u307	He doesn't give me time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u308	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u309	Thank you very much. The truth is, I agree with you that we should ask a couple of two questions between you and Madame Quintana and my companion Marcos Cal and myself. What's obvious is that the healing of the Welsh rivers is a big pending subject, and it's not from now on. It also affects several districts. It's about a lot of action you've taken, but it's seen that they're not effective. The situation of Barbera, Muros-Noia, Salnés, Pontevedra, Vigo, actually evidence that they invest a lot of millions, however it is highly worrying that the situation of the rivers is worse than ever, unfortunately for our group and for the people of Galicia. In addition, as we have already explained — and that is why it would be good to ask these questions in a dual way — this has an environmental impact on public health and, of course, on the employment of the sea sector and its products. The problem has been on the table since 1992. Several groups related to the fisheries sector had already called for concentrations to demand urgent measures to put an end to the waste. 1992. He's talking about debuggers, of course. As a matter of priority, it was the EDAR of Ribeira. What is the situation of EDAR in Ribeira? On many other occasions my companion Marcos Cal has made manifest the terrible and evil management and the consequences even for the health of neighbors and neighbors, who are in a desperate situation in the Town Hall of Ribeira, which governs the People's Party. It is scandalous, with all that amount of budget, that they are experiencing health problems because of these so "effective" measures of the People's Party. Let's not talk about the boisterous performance of Burgo's laugh. You're talking about their performances. They've been in order for years with technical and scientific reports, and they've been asking you here another time for this river, with desperate seafarers. Today, at the BOE, we see that the steps to the execution of the dredging were approved and recognizing the compensation because the jobs and the shellfish in the Burgo stream are extinguished, and with fines from the European Union for non-compliance in the Vigo River — as long as you have spoken — and in many other Greek rivers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u311	So, therefore, and to finish, we have to really ask him whether this time his promises will be fulfilled, because his precedent says quite otherwise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u313	Thank you very much, President. The answer is whether we're going to comply and we're going to finish with all the infrastructures competency of the Galician Union that will complement and complete the integral sanitation of all rivers. And I say sanitation, we don't want to be wrong. I'm not talking about dragons, I'm talking about hydrologically healing the waters, which, of course, favors the work that all seafarers develop in the creeks. Tell you in Burgo's laugh. Home! I haven't had time to finish. In the Vigo River it was 230 million euros and in the Burgo River it was 100 million euros. As I told you, last year I licit 6 million euros myself, which has already completed the total action by the Galician Board on sanitation. Of course, this is everyone's job. I'm not going to say that the Galician Union has no part, that's its main commitment, that's its main objective by 2020, but the municipalities as well. All the town halls of laughter, of course, also have to do their duties. In the Pontevedra River, since 2009 36.5 million euros have been invested, and we continue to invest. We invest in Marín, and we're waiting for the Poio Town Hall — to see if you have more communication ease than I do — to design at once what's the space to invest 6 million euros in a debugger we're waiting for him and there's no way for the Poio Town Hall to tell where that debugger wants. In the Arousa River, in Ribeira, there is already a debugger. In Ferrol's creek, 115 million euros, more than 200 of the state. I mean, this isn't what a counselor says and they're nothing but numbers, it's a reality today because it's tangible and absolutely palpable. But we want to keep moving forward, so now we have the commitment to carry more than 180 million euros forward, by 2020, only in the rivers, where, by the way, last week I signed two conventions that I think are not ballads with Ferrol, precisely for La Malata, and even with Rianxo. It was 7 million for Ferrol, for Rianxo 14 million euros, and so we will follow all the commitments we have: in the river of Foz, in Burela, in Vilagarcia, in the river of Pontevedra with 45 million euros; and, Mrs Santos, I guarantee you that it is the priority objective. All this roadmap is not a roadmap that decides a government because yes, it is a roadmap of a planning that makes technicians, which is called a River Sanitation Plan, and which evidently completes our performance. We do this, first of all, because we really want to achieve that by 2020 it is possible to say that about 100 percent of the water masses in our community, in particular rivers, are completely healthy. Today we are moving forward and fighting for that goal. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u314	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you, Counselor. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u315	We now proceed to a slight change in the agenda that has already been commented upon by the stakeholders, and now formulates the question of Ms. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the protection and management of the island of Tambo, in the municipality of Poio
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u316	Whenever you like, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u317	Thank you, President. I first of all want to greet the concellers of the PSdeg in the Poio Town Hall, who could explain to you, Counsellor, that happens with the debugger and that place that you say is the responsibility of the council, if you met with them. This is the island of Tambo. On the one hand and on the other, I don't see too many oaks or too many native species, as the rural councillor once said, are basically eucalyptus. The island of Tambo, which is in Poio Town Hall, has always been the most unknown, because — as you know — it was owned by the Ministry of Defence. Its three wonderful beaches could only be used by the families of the members of the Navy, and at a certain point, gracefully, there is a State document of 2002 that says that seeking the balance between use and enjoyment by the citizenry and the protection measures of the island, it was agreed by Defense to authorize access by the rest of the mortals who were not themselves. Just a few years ago, the University of Vigo did a study on what is inside the island: an 18th-century chapel, the ruins of a 19th-century lazarate, the oldest stone in Galicia, remnants of petroglyphs, a lighthouse of the 30s -- it looks at the lighthouse perfectly in this photograph -- and a convoy, which is a form, a space, in a traditional way of catching fish. Everything's in quite a lamentable state. Despite that, in writing, in my reply to him that the Government of the State gave in February 2002 at the Congress of Deputies, the Government of the State said: "As a result of a report by Tragsa — he read it because it is in Spanish — there was a selective cut in the island to facilitate the conservation of its forest mass and reduce the risk of forest fires. The work carried out by the company was intended to undertake a second phase of the renewal of the eucalyptus strains — a repetition, a second phase of the recovery of the eucalyptus strains — and an investment in the conditioning of the marine barracks of the School, thus improving the well-being and quality of life of its staffing, seeking that balance between the use and enjoyment by the citizen and measures to ensure its safety and protection of its buildings and the environment, in order to avoid the recurrence of vandal acts produced in the past. The current state of conservation of the island is satisfactory." “defense,” he said. Well, besides that cultural heritage is wasted on the ground, literally, there's an invasion of eucalyptus -- it's not very difficult to see it looking at photography. The ministry itself has rested, there is invasion of mimosas, the plump apse, and even there are American visionaries, who ate all the species that were inside the island and now devote themselves to eating what is outside, that is, what is in the sea. By this disgust the Poio Council has made a follow-up commission so that the island no longer belongs to the Ministry of Defence, becomes for public use, and if a special protection figure is found.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u318	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u319	You don't go to that commission. Then I'll keep going. Why, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u320	Don't make it. Well, it's written. Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u321	Thank you very much, President. I also greet his fellow PSdeG of Poio. The truth is, I don't have an appointment requested by them to meet with them. If they want, at any time I have no problem meeting with them, but, given that they are the ones who support the government of the mayor of the BNG, it's almost easier for them to talk to the mayor, tell him where to put the debugger, and then, if they want, tell me too. I don't have any problems, besides talking about Tambo, of course. I believe that, when you ask this question, you will share with me that, indeed, we are privileged in our community by the wealth of nature that we have and this great natural heritage. In some ways, this privilege is the responsibility of this council to preserve it, to preserve the inheritance we had, and also to be able to have other kinds of actions for the enjoyment of the natural spaces of our community. Our community has a wide range of natural spaces, specifically the Welsh Network of Protected Spaces. It's 96 spaces, almost 12% of our territory. We are, of course, working to ensure that all of them, who have some form of protection, develop in a sustainable way, and that these spaces also allow their maximum conservation but also their enjoyment, and even economic dynamization — why not — of the municipalities that occupy the places that are currently protected. I suppose you also know that the island of Tambo -- you said it -- is owned by the Ministry of Defence. There may be an intention on the part of the Town Hall, legally, to ask the Ministry of Defence to become the property of the Town Hall. It will be a conversation between two who will, of course, have when they want to have it. I can tell you that on the side of the Galician board if we include this island in the Coastal Management Plan (POL), that is, it is a place of special landscape interest. So it's one of the 211 areas of special landscape interest that today are already reality and that are in the landscape catalogue. If you don't know, these areas of special landscape interest are those areas of Galicia that compete with landscape values that are outstanding. What does it mean and what does it mean to be included in the landscape catalogue and to be an area of special landscape interest? So what it means is that there has to be, and will always be, a report issued by the Institute of Territorial Studies for any performance in these areas. Moreover, the landscape guidelines, which will be developed in these months, will determine the specific measures to be taken and to be put in place and the actions to be carried out. Today, the island of Tambo does not have any environmental protection figures precisely because whoever has to develop it, whether it is its owner or the ministry, or in any case the municipality, has neither done nor submitted any request for the development of an environmental protection figure that can fit on this island, but if you have what the Junta de Galicia can do, which is its landscape protection.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u322	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u323	President, I will ask you the question that was written: Does the Government of Galicia share that it is necessary to find the best form of protection and management for the island of Tambo in the Poio Town Hall? Because there's a follow-up commission, Counselor, which set up the Poio Town Hall. In that commission which is intended to recover the public use of the island and the property of the island for the Poio municipality, obviously agreed with the Ministry of Defence, they participate: the Poio government, the Poio municipal groups, the Poio neighbors, the Pontevedra Deputy, and they tried that you, the Goberno da Junta government and its council, also participate in that commission, but you didn't even appear when you were invited. So it's not true that you don't know anything that's moved by the Town Hall, because they did ask you to go and you don't go to that commission. And it's not hidden because it comes out in the press. It's something that comes out in the media of Poio, its county and Pontevedra. I suppose you'll have some press chief or press office who'll tell you what's going on in the spaces that are going on in this case into the POL, which will tell you what's going on with them and how they move those spaces. We don't know why you're not participating, and why you're saying right now that you don't even know about this follow-up commission. I know, that I'm not a counselor, I suppose you too would have to know, that would be your obligation. We don't know if you've sued the state that any kind of economic gain on the island returns to Galicia, not outside. There are eucalyptuses, Counselor. All you have to do is watch the aerial photos, there's only eucalyptus. It will be of particular protection, I don't know, on the beaches, because, of course, on their plants sure they don't. And what there are are visions eating fish, counselor. There are no more native species on the island. There are no native species, there are visions, and since they can't eat anything else, they have to eat the soles that are outside. Do you therefore believe that special protection measures are necessary, and a commission that deals with special island management measures? Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Closing time for this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u325	Mrs Vilán, what I can assure you is that the Poio Town Hall, like the rest of the Galician municipalities, will count on the express support of the Department of the General Directorate of Nature Heritage for everything they need in the processing of that environmental protection figure that wishes to take forward the Town Hall. To make an ENIL—you will also probably know that figure—which is a natural space of local interest, which can promote it perfectly, in this case the Poio Council, does not need any commission. The Poio Town Hall can do whatever it wants, and it will always count on the General Directorate of Heritage of Nature and this council, but I can assure you that today there are, for example, eight ENIL space processing files that have not done any commission to develop an environmental protection figure with all those of the law, Mrs Vilán. What is needed is that there is indeed a technical report to ensure that there are values of nature that we have to preserve around a figure of nature that can perfectly develop the Poio Council without the need for a commission. What I've already told you, the concierges who are here and the mayor, is that in any doubt they'll go hand in hand with the General Directorate of Nature Heritage in that processing, as we do with the whole world. There's no commission for all 8 Emiles, nor in the history that I know of being commissioned. What's your modality? Welcome home. But, of course, the Galician Union is waiting for someone to apply for an environmental protection figure in this council. No one. There's no request on the table. There may be a commission, indeed. I know there's a commission. But there is no request on the table of this counsellor for processing a file of a protection figure, and it should also be. This should be the case because, in fact, when an environmental protection figure file is started, it is when we have the assurance that there will be a technical report that assesses environmental wealth, the wealth of nature that this island has in particular. So, do I agree that a protective figure should be found? Well, of course you do. Will you count on the board's collaboration? Poio and all the municipalities will have the collaboration they always have in handling the file of that figure that they want to take forward. But, of course, who has to lead it is either the Ministry of Defence, which I don't know whether or not it's because of the work, or, if not, in any case, the council it is responsible for. Poio can, at any time, request from the beginning of a file or an ENIL, and there he will find us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u326	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the actions planned by the Galician Union to implement the Plan for the Accessibility of Metropolitan Transport in the City of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u327	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u328	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As it is well known, the Galician Union has been developing the improvement of transport in Galicia, we are often talking about this in this Parliament. Among the various plans that are being put in place, it has a special relevance for citizens in the metropolitan area of Coruña the improvement of their interurban-metropolitan transport through the entrance of urban buses to the city centre, with stops beyond those in the bus station. An action which is estimated to increase at least 10% of the users of this transport, with the advantages that this has in reducing private vehicles, and therefore in improving mobility, traffic and reducing greenhouse gases. This novelty in the service has been being demanded for some time by citizenship, and it also has broad social support, being one of the most requested aspects in the processes of participation of the various mobility plans of the metropolitan area, which appears in addition to much supported in any of the transport surveys that take place. The follow-up to this urban transport penetration plan in the city centre is being developed and agreed, in dialogue with the municipalities of the urban area, through the follow-up commission of the metropolitan transport plan of the Coruña. Within the framework of this commission, the plan of entry into urban buses was validated and approved without any inconvenience, without putting any objection at the meeting, and it was proposed that it start working before the summer. ' It is true that at that meeting there is no kind of objection, but then there are continuous obstacles on the part of the Council of the Crown that they do or that they made it impossible for it to put into operation, that it could be put in place, this plan before the summer, which was when they decided at that meeting the Council and the rest of the councils that form — all of them, including that of the Crown — part of the Monitoring Commission, because it is the moment of less traffic, because when there is no school transport and people on vacation is a time of less traffic, and it was more favourable to begin this service. Of course, now we'll have to do it at a time with school transportation. And by the way, I hope that when the buses run, they don't blame the jams on the long-distance buses, because the fifteen or twenty days we've been in school transport coincide with the time already in the jams, and we've been in the city of Coruña for two or three weeks with continuous jams. This measure, in principle, is expected to reduce to 600 vehicles in the city. So, given the interest that citizenship has in beginning to operate this service as soon as possible, the Popular Group is asking the following oral question for its answer in plenary: What actions are you planning to carry out the Galician Union to achieve the goal of implementing the Plan for the Accessibility of Metropolitan Transport in the City of Coruña? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u329	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mrs. Ethel Vázquez has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u330	Thank you, President. Mr President, Mr Martín Fernández Prado, we have been working on the plan to access urban buses to the centre of Coruña because it is a plan that would substantially improve the mobility of the neighbours of the Coruña and increase public transport by reducing the use of the private vehicle, and therefore more attractive public transport. We're pushing this plan because it's a demand for every neighborhood in the Coruña metropolitan area. As you know, today long-distance buses can only reach the bus station itself, and with this plan the long-distance buses would go to the city center and, therefore, we would eliminate shuttles and reduce travel times for users. It is therefore a more attractive public transport and a promotion of public transport to avoid the use of the particular vehicle. That was the main goal of working since 2015 with this plan, a work that we have done with transparency and participation; two public information to put this plan in place and a very hard work since 2015. A thorough study of traffic flows, delimiting in particular the municipalities that most relate to the Town Hall of Coruña, limiting them to twelve municipalities. By implementing objective criteria agreed with all the municipalities to define and specify the lines that have to access to the city center; 43 lines will access the city center. We also agreed on the appropriate stop points to connect with urban transport, to fix the stop of these interurban buses. And also, depending on the origin of the different expeditions, we defined three important corridors: the west corridor, which comes from Artexo along the avenue of Finisterre and the avenue of Artexo; the center corridor, which comes from Culleredo; and the east corridor, which comes from the Oleiros area. The right stop points — as I say — agreed, and the truth is that we agreed among all the works on those stops: stopped on the coast of the Palloza that would make the Town Hall of the Coruña; Ourense-Entregardens square that would do the Junta of Galicia, that must be executed before they access those interurban lines, and so we accept it. In these conditions, the proposal of the Galician Board was that the bus plan be launched at the entrance of the Crown in the same summer. The first line would be the Oleiros corridor. The only thing we found, of course, were reluctance and excuses for the buses not to enter. We've had this work done for months for urban buses to enter the city of Coruña, but the fact is, with so many evasives and so many excuses from the Town Hall, the result is that nowadays the neighborhoods across the area cannot enjoy more efficient and attractive public transport to use the bus in the Coruña area. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u331	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. For the reply, Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u332	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. Especially with these last words, I see that, in fact, he was speaking of an obstructive stance on the part of this Town Hall of the Crown, which is not strange to me because I know perfectly the municipal position for any of the projects of other administrations, called Alfonso Molina, called intermodal, called metropolitan transport, called public housing... before any of the projects, the only important thing is to stand against it. But at least this question went for something, because the day after Parliament's Bureau approved its inclusion, the Council announced that it finally issued a license to build the brand that it needed in Entregardins. At least for this it was worth, for them to announce the license just the next day, chance!, despite the fact that they've been waiting for her for five months. Which, by the way, is not much compared with what other citizens have to expect in the Coruña. That's right, bad luck too!, just after five months waiting for the license, it turns out that in that same place, just where I wanted to make the Marquis to Join, now I had to do, in the same week, sanitation work, the Town Hall of the Crown and it has to be delayed further. Another one works more! I recognize the difficulty you have to go saving these traps, because in these almost two years and a month, every time you save a trap, another new one appears. That's what they've been doing, but we'll have to keep saving these obstacles. What I'm asking you is that you do not compromise, and that if the citizens of Coruña are really interested in this bus entrance, you keep fighting for this deployment of public transport, so that the buses can enter and stop in the center of the city of Coruña. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u333	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs Ethel Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u334	Thank you. The desire of the Galician Junta, of course, is to put in place this plan of access for interurban buses to the centre of the Coruña as soon as possible, because it is a demand for a long time ago for all the neighbours of the Coruña area and because it assumes greater comfort in the displacements, greater security, fewer transhipments and, therefore, less time in the movements towards the Coruña. And the truth is, it could have been implanted for a long time, because we've had the work done for a long time. By doing a little chronology, at the first bilateral meeting of Galicia-Ceole de la Coruña, on June 22, we informed the Town Council that, if we were authorized licences within the normal licensing deadlines for the agreed stops, from which they had to stop the buses in urban areas: in the Ourense square and in Entregardins, the buses in urban areas could enter in the summer. They would be finished in July the stops and could be implanted in August the first line, which would be the one that comes from Oleiros. Of course, the Town Hall didn't accept it. It didn't seem appropriate because it would be best when the school buses were at the start of the school course. At the second Joint Bilateral Commission in Galicia-Coruña, on July 19, we moved to the Town Hall that, after having the stops licenses — which was after three months, but still we continued with the schedule to be able to implement the Interurban Bus Accessibility Plan to the centre of the Coruña in the summer — in mid-August, the stops could be finished and the buses could enter urban buses, and it would be possible in summer. Again new arguments, this time because there were interference with the restructuring of the urban bus and again impediments and new arguments. When we were going to start the bus stops between us in Entregardins, without warning, and despite having a commission fifteen days ago when they could have informed us, we found that, without notice, we had to do some sanitation work. In the third tracking commission, a new pretext: that buses didn't have enough technology. I think it's enough trouble, buses have enough technology. I think with wheels and motor you can access the city center. In any case, we have the work done and what we've found in front of them are bandages, intermodal blocks, empty housing program, office, Alfonso Molina... what we have in the Town Hall of Coruña with the Tides of Podemos is a containment wall to projects, plans, necessary initiatives and important investments of the Coruña... yes, a containment wall to meet the needs of the people of the Coruña. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what we found in the Town Hall. [[Murmurs.]] The only thing we can say we're going to do is go through Marineda's gateway because we don't depend on the Town Hall of Coruña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u336	...we depend on ourselves. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u337	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the Galician Union with regard to the consequences of the policy carried out in relation to wind energy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u338	Whenever you want, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u339	Counselor, you've been running this country for almost a decade. It is a period — we think — large enough to evaluate its management — or rather, the lack of management — as to one of the most important sectors for our economy and for our energy sector, the wind sector, and the result is quite devastating. You guys started wrong already, with a demagogic and illegal crusade against the Bipartite contest. Simply because of ideological sectarianism they paralyze a process that had placed Galicia in the vanguard of wind production in the Spanish state, and the data speak for themselves. In 2009, the Greek windman led production in the state this way of generation, and had nearly 3,000 megawatts installed; barely passed by only Castile-A Mancha. Years later, our country is in fourth place, behind the two castles and behind Andalusia. And not only has it increased the distance that keeps Galicia away from these communities, but it's about to move to the fifth place and be shifted. In this time, in addition, many other things have happened that show the absolute failure of the People's Party's political policy. You promised 2,600 megawatts and didn't even install 25%. They promised 1,400 jobs and didn't generate a room. In September 2017, the balance we can make is that you submitted the Greek wind sector to absolute paralysis: unemployment in employment, unemployment in investment. And that was because, then, Galicia had a very strong exit position to deal with the economic crisis, had already made an important investor effort in the sector, and you took it for granted. His lack of project has led us to an unjustified waste of time. And in the years of the crisis, in a context where there is also a clear lack of access to credit that many companies have had to deal with — including the Galicians, because today morning they also forgot about the Greek companies affected by this paron — our wind sector also had to suffer from the political injuries emanating from the central government of the state, with the silence of the Greek, and which have completely stagnated the sector. For two years now, several judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia have confirmed the right to economic compensation for disadvantaged companies, and you took these judgments on 7 July last year and have authorized nearly 3 million euros to pay for this "unforeseen" - as they have qualified the budgetary amendment - you quote -. Anyway. In view of this situation, we want to ask you two things from the Galician Nationalist Block today. First, let them be a little honest with the Greeks and the Greeks and make a rigorous assessment of their last ten years of management of wind energy. And according to — without going further into the wound — we, from the BNG, want to talk about the future, we want to look forward and see what the wind development model of this country is going to be, to make Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u340	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u341	...don't stay back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u343	...until it's practically an anecdote to this sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, you're talking about political sectarianism. I'm going to transfer you a clear example of what political sectarianism is, because maybe your bankmates, your partymates, didn't explain to you at any time how the Bipartite wind competition was, but I'm going to explain it to you. I quote: "To me the most serious political problems came from the way Blanco and Quintana used this process; a process that did not offer guarantees from the perspective of land management, environmental sustainability and economic viability of the projects that accompanied each offer. In fact, they pressed the accelerator and took the process forward. It arrived in September without the mandatory evaluation committee, which was part of seven members of the Industry Council, each representative of the Environment, Territorial Policy and Rural Environment. I had to demand his constitution." At the same time, a Council working table, which, with the support of an external consultant, was actually responsible for the selection of projects. In the final stage of the process — the last quarter of 2008 — I had practically taken, at least on two occasions, the decision to stop the Industry Adviser. His performance was unacceptable and of great disloyalty." End of date. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Presas, these words aren't mine, they're from former President Emilio Pérez Touriño in his book of memories The future is possible. [[Murmurs.]] But look, I'll explain more. Not only were there discrepancies within the Bipartisan Government, but BNG's performance not only accumulated industry resources and objections by the Consultative Council in the wind decree, but also two contests were declared illegal and the third had to be cancelled. I believe, Your Honor, that you are not here to give examples of the Galician Nationalist Block, but yes, of course, this is a clear example of ideological sectarianism. Look, Mrs. Presas, this morning, after listening to In Marea, I think it's clear that no one is with the Nationalist Block of Galicia in the wind model. So now in my reply I will talk about the future, but I believe that the ideological and political sectarianism of the BNG is a perfectly transferable synonym for this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u346	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u347	Look, Mr. Count, with all due respect, keep your paternalism where you take it. It's the second time... look, I left Quintana's book at home, and when the Bipartite contest was drawn up, I was asking other questions, but don't worry I'm just going to defend it. [[Applause]] Look, this is the second time I tell you: whenever you want, we do a monograph of debate for the four years of the two-party government, and I'll come here to defend the position of the BNG during those four years in the wind energy without any problems. But whoever has to account for the last nine years of managing wind energy is you, sir, it's you. [[Applause]] The bipartite alibi has an expiry date, it will no longer be worth them forever, Mr. Count, and yet tell me: if we compare management levels, who took up to four years to grant the first megawatts?, was it the bipartito or were you, or was it your government? Who? And, of course, I also love their layers of alleged illegalities. That argument, in view of the judgments, also if they are exhausted, or are you talking about the judgment against the procedure for evaluating the tenders of your invitation to tender? [[Applause]] Anyway, as I say, in any case, from the BNG, I insist, we want to talk about the future. You know perfectly well the goals that are at energy level both by 2020 and by 2050 and that at this rate we're late, bad and track. So what we want to do is to talk from here, from the German Parliament, about what model we want. And by the way, too, since you like to talk so much about the past, we evaluate how much it cost for the Greeks and the Greeks, apart from the 3 million euros of budgetary changes, the waste of time in wind matter that you've submitted to us for the last ten years. You dare and we talk about it any day here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u349	Since cordiality, Mrs Presas, I do believe that you have indeed had a great opportunity in these three minutes to defend the wind politics of the BNG, but clearly you have no argument whatsoever. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Mrs Presas, with regard to the judgments, knows perfectly well that the judgment you are referring to is not firm — she knows perfectly well — and also knows that it is contrary to the majority criterion of more than twenty judgements that assess the legality and constitutionality of this government's wind policy. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] In any case, Your Honor, if there were any kind of legal insecurity that you want to move to this Parliament, surely no Greek promoter had ever introduced to the lobby of renewables with the intention of presenting and developing new projects in Galicia. Therefore, Galicia now has the opportunity to develop 600 megawatts, and it will certainly count on the support of the People's Party and, surely and sadly, on the opposition of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, you tell me about the amounts paid to companies. Since he has no historical memory, he should have some rigor. The government didn't make any kind of economic compensation, none. [[Murmurs.]] Use the concepts well because we're in Parliament. As you know, the Law of Wind was clearly — as it is in the law — that the Government had logically to bear the administrative processing costs in which companies might be incur, and that is what we are doing, to comply with the law, but there is no kind of economic compensation or loss of profit. It is therefore a responsibility that, unfortunately, at the moment, was not the responsibility of the Galego Nationalist Block, supporting in Madrid the policy of Mr. Zapatero's wind, paying premiums and generating a deficit of EUR 30,000 billion, which is 3% of the gross domestic product and therefore I think that, unfortunately, Mrs. Presas, no historical memory, no wind model and what they have is an ideological sectarianism of a great depth. In any case, let's talk about the future. We brought here an amendment to the Law of Wind, which is in line with the sector, which will allow for the dynamisation and development of 600 megawatts at least here in Galicia. I would like, logically, to find and find the consensus of the Galician Nationalist Block; to see if you really are here to support Galician economic development or are here simply to make ideology and sectarianism. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u350	Thank you. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, about the recovery of historical memory
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u351	You have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u352	Good afternoon. Counsellor, this morning we're talking enough about the Francisco Franco National Foundation. It is clear that, if there is a will, this foundation should be illegal. But we're also talking about recovering for the country the heritage usurped by Franco, and also where I'm going to focus on returning dignity to the victims of fascist terror, adding up and opening pits, which still remain. I'm going to refer to something that we all know, which is a UN report and, in particular, the body that defends human rights. The UN — which has come out in all the media — gives Spain 90 days to implement policies in favour of the victims of franchise. It's been 50 since the news picks up all the media. So, we could hear and see the report of the Human Rights Working Group. The body is appalled by the lack of judicial investigation, the impunity surrounding the crimes of enforced disappearance of the 1936 War and franchise; it recries the Spanish Government to disregard most of the recommendations that the UN has already made in 2013 and to abandon the victims of the dictatorship to their fate. It regrets to note little progress in the implementation of the recommendation. It takes out the colours — democratic shame — to Spain and gives 90 days — that there are only 40 — to present a timetable indicating the measures to be taken to implement the recommendations that are still pending and the dates for each of them. The workgroup details a long list of non-compliances. It is particularly disturbing that the families of people who disappeared during the 1936 War are denied to be able to investigate the fate, the paradox, of their loved ones and have access to the truth, justice and reparation. And he also accuses the Government of freeing these families of his own. Puts the emphasis on urgency and speed to assume and commit more actively to this issue. The UN calls for a national plan to search for victims of franchise; this plan is urgent. He claims that the Government offers greater institutional support to associations. It also requests that all enforced disappearances be investigated in a thorough and impartial manner. To this end — the experts explain — it would be necessary to remove legal obstacles, such as the 1977 Amnesty Law. The question is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u353	Thank you. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u354	...—I will formulate it already— what will the Council of Galicia do to open and exhumate the graves of the reprisals and reprisals in the military dictatorship in Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u355	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u356	Well, Mrs. Cuña, I thought, after the debate this morning, that I might even withdraw this question. I think it's extemporaneous, in the sense that it asks what we're going to do, what the government will do. [[Laughter]] I'm going to tell you something very simple: we're going to comply with the law, absolutely; we're going to comply with the law, all the laws. The laws can change, of course, but while there is a law in force, what is democratic is to comply with the law. I think that's something... I think it's something very important that all Democrats, and especially those who are in a legislative chamber where we pass the laws, we should take into account and we should always do, always defend the observances of the laws. [[Applause]] Laws can be better, worse, they can have positive, negative aspects, but we can change them, we just have to have the support of the people in democratic elections. If you or any other political training wants to change a law you have to win the election or have the necessary parliamentary support. That's why I say we're going to comply with the law. Point one. And secondly, we're going to tell him what we're going to do. I believe that today there has been, as far as the first part of your question is concerned, a parliamentary mandate; there is a parliamentary mandate adopted by most of this House. In this case, I think it's something that we all agree on, although in some way some political formations have preferred not to support or, in some way, to play a parliamentary game in order not to seek an agreement. And I believe that in this case the People's Party, the majority force, the political formation that has a greater democratic force within Galicia, had an act of height and had an act of generosity, I think that very important from a political point of view; it was able to offer to withdraw a proposal itself to accept, in order to seek a meeting point, withdraw its proposal and to accommodate its proposal, to a proposal coming from the other side, in this case, understanding that the parliamentary unit is very important for, as you say here, to recover the whole of the policeman by Franco, which is what you are asking in this matter. And on the other hand, what did we see? On the other hand, we saw a quite marked interest in generating differences within the parliamentary arc, and instead of having a unanimous proposal or a proposal supported by an immense majority of the parliamentary arc, that is, of the Greek democratic forces, you have continued to prefer not to have a common stance, not to negotiate, and somehow to create in the imaginary an idea of what I think society is starting to realize is its fundamental objective. The fundamental goal of some is to try to make you see, as I think brilliantly said our spokesperson...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u358	...that the People's Party is a franchise party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u359	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u360	...and, obviously, there are absolutely wrong and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u361	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u362	I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u363	Thank you. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u364	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u365	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u366	What an obscenity! What a skunk! What a cynicism! Actually, I don't answer any questions, and I'm going to justify why I say this. Cynicism is a whole stream, eh! It's a current that shows a lack of shame in lying and defending actions that are reprehensible. In this matter -- we've all been here and all of us -- we know what was said. You don't give a single measure, you don't say... just keep the law. The law must be fulfilled, of course, and you said: it must be changed. Since there are no solutions, let me bring some. The German Government may address the Spanish State to repeal the Amnesty Act of 1977. We would agree unanimously to declare null and void, without legal effect, all the far-reaching convictions and judgments, the war councils and judgments, as well as the express declarations of illegitimateness of the courts created in effect. They don't want to recognize reality, they want to keep wearing it, okay. They're drawing pictures. They may amend the laws, of course, yes, but at the German level, Counsellor — who does not give an answer — may legislate within the scope of their powers by nullifying and leaving without effect these convictions and judgments of the war councils, making a statement of reparation and joint recognition of all victims of Galician relatives and developing the Welsh Law of democratic historical memory, as is already being done in other communities of the Spanish State. You can also develop a German plan to search for victims of franchise. He can do a lot of things, and all he does is crown and say, we're going to comply with the law. We all want to comply with the law, but we need to change them, of course, that yes, and democracy is demonstrated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u367	Quiet. Finish. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u368	To end and justify cynicism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u369	No, time's up. Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u370	...while the Government of Spain falls upon us by failing to comply with fundamental agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u371	Quiet, please. It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u372	It's over, it's because of the interference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u373	Oh, but it was his group. Time's up. Yeah, yeah, it's over. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u374	You have to use the same measuring rod. I'm trying to do it. Yeah, shut up. [[Murmurs.]] On that side we're going wrong. I'm trying to do it. Time is time. No, it's not over. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u375	Mrs. Cuña, you, who is naturally calm, are a little excited...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u376	I hope you don't hear well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u377	I didn't just answer because I couldn't, because I respected parliamentary order and couldn't finish my answer. I was telling you that we were going to comply with the law and the parliamentary mandate that was approved today in this House. And you can make it very clear that the People's Party in Galicia has no moral or political debt with franchise, none, even though you are constantly trying to deepen on that issue. He has no moral or political debt at all. [[Applause]] Look, in this House this party has repeatedly refused everything you seem to want to see society: that we have, I don't know... a debt... really a blood bond. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're pretty wrong. And look, this political party condemns all kinds of political, totalitarian action, all kinds of authoritarian political regimes, all kinds of political regimes that attack individual or collective freedoms, whether right or left, whether present or past. And we'd like some of them to do it too, because some of them see totalitarianism in some places and some of them don't, or they see authoritarianism in some places and some of them don't. [[Applause]] I'm going to tell you another question, about the parliamentary agreement. We all agree. Look, we all want the heart of this debate, that the peace of Meirás goes to the public heritage; all. We all want to make a commission that evaluates the possibilities of doing so, with a premise, which does not involve a disbursement from Galician public resources to the Franco family. Do we agree? Good. That was in the morning, actually, it was in the morning, but that's what you ask me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because he asks me what he's gonna do to Junta. I'm going to tell you: fulfill parliamentary mandates. With which, I'm telling you what we're going to do. First — that goes after — we will carry out the parliamentary mandate. A committee will be set up with university experts, who will — we understand — be neutral, who will be able to evaluate the possibilities that exist and who will, on the basis of this premise, which I believe is common, take a point of agreement. Then, as far as you're concerned about the pits. Well, here's not the first time you ask, and the answer to this government I think it's already known. This is the case of the Vice President's Council, and I'm going to repeat to you here what we've already said on several occasions: the Galician Council is going to carry out all those actions that are ordered by the competent courts and courts and will work together in accordance with the legal resolutions that exist to that effect. That is what is being done absolutely within the legally established procedure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u378	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u379	This is what you do, because it's very important, as I said, Mrs. Cuña, to be consistent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u380	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u381	Time's up, Counselor. No, no, no more words. [[Mr. Cultura, Educación e Ordinación Universitaria, Rodríguez González, pronounced words that were not perceived.]] Quiet now. Time's up, just like the raisin for everyone. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the process of enlargement of the Hospital de Montecelo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u382	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. My question is about the Grand Montecelo project, a very ambitious and necessary project for Pontevedra, for the whole of its health area; a project that crystallized in a convention signed in July last year between the Council of Pontevedra, the Council of Health and the Sergas; a project in which there is unanimity, since it was even unanimously ratified by members of the Pontevedra Corporation and by the parties who are also represented here in this House. With which, I am convinced that you will continue that unanimous support to take forward this great project. A project in which it was proposed several months ago to draft the space plan and the functional plan of the Great Montecelo project; a project and a way to develop this pioneering plan -- I would like to congratulate you again, Mr. Counsellor -- in which more than 4,000 professionals from the EOXI of Pontevedra have been collected have worked through a web platform or even through an e-mail account, 300 professionals grouped into nine working groups, and patients from public health centers in Pontevedra have also participated. This plan worked out in a document that you and the president of the board presented in Pontevedra last July; so I think that in a year it's been quite advanced. And what we want to know, Counselor, is what the administrative stage is in this process of the Great Montecelo and what progress is planned for the next few months. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u383	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Moreira, the truth is, yes, the Great Montecelo will be a great hospital for Pontevedra. Hospital care now lends itself to three different centers, physically separated and further away, so as first premise we bet on building a single building, using the facilities of the current Montecelo. As you well say, it was a project that had a broad social consensus from the professionals, and that after the approval of the functional plan and space plan, I think it's beginning to define what hospital care is going to be for the next 30 years in Pontevedra. We start from an outline, with the area of Salnés and Pontevedra itself, in which we are talking about a population that is already very important, with an aging population as well — we calculated that in 2031, and we are doing long-term projection -- 44,637 people will be over 75 years old, and, as I say, with participation of professionals, citizens, entities, professional schools, community associations, patient associations that were involved in doing the hospital project, at the health level, at the level of Spain, probably of the biggest ones they remember. They told us, in addition, the needs they believed were missing in Pontevedra to incorporate them into this functional plan and space plan. To say some specific data, we're going to increase by 39,000 square meters the surface built up to 118,000 square meters, where, disaggregating through specific areas, we can talk about that in emergencies, for example, we're going to have rooms, emergency stations, from 61 to 117, an increase of 92%. Also for the first time there will be a single area of emergency, very important — all defined by it. As for surgery, we also increase not only in numbers but also in size to perform large-service surgeries. The number of beds we've also increased by 20%, up to 720, and also for the first time in the functional plan we're talking about home. We believe it will be a very important place in the future for the care of the sick through Had, home hospitalization, and home care from primary care, along with teleassistation, which we are already on Telea platform. We increased the surface to be occupied, as you said at the beginning, with agreement to the Pontevedra Town Hall for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u385	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u386	...to create services and above all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u387	Thank you, Counselor. You've got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u388	...and above all to modify... Thank you very much, President. We're going now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u389	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u390	Thank you, Counselor. I believe that we have therefore a plan that we are enjoying, which has enjoyed so much the users and patients and social groups — which I find to be present in this presentation — as primarily to professionals, with which I think it is starting very well the management of this Gran Montecelo, which will be a great project for Pontevedra. We know that last August we published the new bidding of the sectoral project of supra-municipal impact, the basic project of the first phase of optional creation, and therefore we wanted to know what progress there is in this issue and what a more or less calendar can be handled for the adjudication of this project and of the projects that have to be carried out in parallel. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u391	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Close this question, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For if, as you well say, it was presented in July, in Pontevedra, and published in the DOG of 9 August 2017 the file for the hiring of the service of the sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence, the preliminary project for the extension of the Montecelo Hospital and the drafting, in addition, of the basic project of the first phase of the Gran Montecelo. It was done, moreover, by means of a declaration of supramunicipal incidence by the agreement with the Town Hall. It was understood that it would be the fastest and most agile way to do it. A four-month and fifteen-day deadline is given for submitting bids by companies — that this phase 1 is a temporary planning of the work to be carried out during the duration of the contract — for the completion of the previous works of clause 2.4 of the contract, for the delivery of the documentation necessary for the public exposure of the project of supra-municipal impact, for the initial version of the preliminary project of construction, reform and expansion, then also for the delivery of the draft basic project and extension, phase 1, of compliance with the preliminary draft, and finally for the delivery of the drafting of the basic project of execution, reform and expansion, phase 1, urbanization and development of the sectoral project, which we calculated about three months since the adoption of the project. This contract has an approximate value of €2,014,038. At this point, we've already opened about A, last Friday, September 22. The public opening of envelope B will be held next Thursday, September 28. We're already moving, as I say. Five companies were introduced, all of them serving as UTEs because of the complexity of the work to be done. So right now, following this process, we calculated that in about two or three months we could have hired the company that is going to do this important part, because, as we say, this is where the space plan is going to come into being. The physical site is going to be the new building of the Grand Montecelo, which is going, as we also said in the exhibition of the past days, to take the most complex part of hospital activity. But in the later phase it will connect to the current building in Montecelo, which will have, as we will also talk, a more outpatient part, and will leave the most complex part in the new building. So this is a project that grows thanks to everyone's consensus, it's a project from the whole area of Pontevedra and for us, as I say, very important because it will establish the bases of hospital care for the next thirty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u393	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, G. P. of the Galician Socialists, on the data submitted by the companies that brought them to the Council in response to the preliminary consultation of the market in relation to the economic costs of air services for maritime rescue of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u394	Mrs. Toja, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u395	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The question we are asking today is added to the long list of questions that our group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has already asked, and which reveal the incompetence with the government's management of public resources. We're talking in particular about Coast Guard Service and chapuceira management and I'd be afraid of what they're doing with this service. It is inevitable and they lead us to make some history, since it was there for the year 2005 when Mr. López Veiga — we remember — bought two aircraft, Fishing I and Fishing II, based on Celero and Vigo respectively, or Vigo and Celero. They bought — we said — in 2005 for 27 million euros and then sold them, in 2012, for 13 million euros. They went to pay 9 million euros a year when they used to pay 2 million euros. They buy for 27, they sell for 13, and they pay for 9 million, when they used to pay 2. This is an absolute bargain for the company, but a ruin for Galicia. The same Board of Auditors criticized this disincentive: neither did they fulfil the public interest in reducing the expenditure, since they continued making monthly payments, nor, on the other hand, did they study any of the impact that this would have on the future; management and consequences that we are currently living. At the end of October the current contract will be completed, and for this reason the Sea Council drew a competition in April in which it placed on table 40 million euros for six years — 40 million euros —. Only one company was introduced, which did not meet the requirements and was therefore dismissed. So the Sea Council drew a new contest in which you put on table 8.5 million euros a year. But he had previously consulted the market; he asked the market what the cost of the Coast Guard Service should be. And on this consultation, precisely today, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we want to ask the question: who did it to? Who did that consultation for the German Government? And who answered that consultation, because the only candidate for the competition, Babcok, did not lower a euro against the maximum amount he was willing to pay to the Galician Union, nor did he offer an hour more than the hours he requested the Sea Council. All we've ever seen is some kind of bidding, we know that doesn't usually happen. So, at least, it's quite shocking. Given that we're talking about a service that directly affects the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks... it's just that, look, in these 20 years since the start of this century, there are about 100 maritime disasters, which we think is a question of relevance and we'd like to know the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u396	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, as you well said, the current contract ends on October 31st. Then, in order for the Sea Council to continue to provide this service — which for us is so important and we created it precisely in the 1990s — because we believe it was necessary to bid back its operation, and with this object we published a resolution on 12 April 2017 announcing the invitation to tender, and this resolution was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 12 April, and in the Official Gazette of the State on 27 April. This contract, as you say, was declared a desert, because only one offer was presented, which did not comply with the requirements imposed on nails, nor did it believe in economic or financial solvency, nor did technical or professional solvency. At this point, we therefore consider it necessary to conduct a market survey in a transparent and public manner, as is recognised in the current legislation, in order to better define the economic scenario of these types of contracts, by requesting updated information on market prices for that purpose. The announcement of the consultation was published on 9 June 2017 in the Galician Contracting Platform, and in this consultation, fully public and transparent, three companies participated. These companies provided data on the requested aspects, which could be grouped into four blocks: The first, the crew's, as far as the salaries are concerned, the social benefits. This concept analyses the actual cost of maintaining an operating crew 24 hours a day on 365 days a year. The second would group the daily cost of insurance covering both the insurance of the occupants, that of damage to third parties, and those of the aeronautical services. The third, the maintenance. This section analyzes the cost per day to keep a 24-hour aircraft maintenance technician in service, and on the other hand the cost per hour of flight in terms of supplies and materials, as well as fuels. The room, the availability of a helicopter, to analyze here the cost of the qualified VFR and IFR helicopter, certified for SAR mode, with the ability to rescue a person located on a ship or at sea at a distance of 180 nautical miles, with a maximum speed exceeding 130 knots and the ability to transport at least 12 people. The information provided is from where the new data was extracted to determine the bid prices of the new call, adding the costs in terms of general expenditure and industrial benefit. As you can see, nothing more suited to the needs and the transparency that must refuse in these cases. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u398	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u399	Thank you, Mr. President. Buying for 27, selling for 13, paying 9 where it was paid 2, disregarding the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, who told you to take into account what was going to happen in the future, which is today... it seems to us an absolute incompetence to manage the public resources of this country. [[Applause]] It's clear that this is a bargain, that this is a job for a company, and in the end it's just a matter of waiting and seeing that time ends up giving reason to this parliamentary group, when I was telling you from the beginning with that consultation and everything you were doing measure suit to a company, and that's what we're seeing. They play with the safety of seafarers — who get up every day to work in harsh conditions, which is the work of the sea, play with that service, with the Coast Guard Service, and play with the people of the sea, putting, as always — what we are seeing — above public interests, private interests. And that happens in this council, and it generally happens with the management of this German government. That's all we have to say. [[Applause]] They don't care about security, even though they say it's a priority; they don't care about anything. Private interests above two audiences. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u400	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u401	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Look, Mrs Toja, I come here as a Member and I come here as a counselor willing to give all kinds of clarity and transparency to the management we are doing since the Government of Galicia, and what I am not going to allow you is that I accuse myself of having deals for a company. We made the contract as we have to. To sell the helicopters, an audit was conducted with engineers, targeted by the College of Engineers, and it was they who put the price of selling the helicopters. [[Applause]] But look, I'm going to tell you: we're all the steps we take with public tenders, with transparency, adjusting to the law. I didn't want to enter into certain debates here, but you, perhaps, have to explain now why in 2007, when you were in charge of the Fisheries Council — excuse me, forgive me a second — and you won the maritime rescue service contract, instead of making a new contract, they decided to go to the extension with that same company. [[Murmurs.]] And once they went to the extension with that same company, after two months of extending it, they made an addendum by increasing the price to EUR 500,000, and six months later they increased the price to EUR 665,000, and then, instead of making the contract again at the age of two, in 2009 they decided to extend the contract again. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] But, Mrs. Toja, do you guys have what kind of tender they were doing? Did they have any preferential dealings with that company? Why don't you take out the contest? Why did he just go in? We, quite the opposite. I have nothing else to say, the data is there, the file is there. Everything was in accordance with the standard, with transparency, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, as set out in the standard, and published in the Official Bulletin of the State, as set out in the standard. All you guys did was extend a previous contract with subcontracts, increasing in two years EUR 1,800,000, without any kind of contract in the middle. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-27-DSPG041.u402	Thank you, Counselor. Before the session is over, I want to inform you that we now have a Bureau meeting and a meeting with the spokespersons, which will be in fifteen minutes. No more points. The session is up. Good afternoon.
