ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. We're on the agenda. Full debate of the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u2	Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for the bill's presentation. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today to the plenary session of Parliament to present the Budget Bill of the Galician Union for the year 2018. Budgeting is the main instrument of the Galician Union to achieve results for citizens; through, of course, the provision of services with equity, efficiency and efficiency. It collects the planned expenditure during the year in force and the revenue financed by such expenditure, in accordance with the availability of public funds and in order to maintain the fiscal balance. This brief summary of what a budget means reflects the importance it has for a community to be able to arrange in time and form this instrument. Well, Galicia is the only autonomy that is sure it will approve the budgets in time and form for next 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't stop being important. And when we come to this debate, we have to ask ourselves why we should draw up this budget. Basically, to maintain and strengthen our priorities and to be able to carry out projects that we have not been able to implement until now. And that's because it's a few accounts that allow us to reinforce the goals we had when we presented the current budget at the beginning of the year and let us put in place new actions. We've wanted to bring this budget to Parliament for years, because we've kept priorities and have more resources to help them. And how do we take advantage of these greater resources? By next year, we're following the expansion road started there are two exercises, and we're trying to build confidence in all the economic agents. To strengthen the essential costs of health, education and social services linked to the well-being of people, with particular attention to those who need it most. To dynamize public investment with the highest wager since before the economic crisis, in order to promote an economic policy aimed at promoting business and, consequently, quality employment. Let us give you specific examples of these objectives: to help you find employment for the 185,903 unemployed people who want to work but have not yet found where; to strengthen high-quality public health, with more services, more prevention and fewer waiting lists; to consolidate a trilingual public education that is suited by new technologies and that guarantees equal opportunities in equity; to expand support for families and for family and employment reconciliation, in addition to ensuring the care of dependents and the care of older people; to facilitate the entrepreneurship of self-employed projects, to boost competitiveness and internationalisation of our companies; to complete the infrastructure that needs Galicia and to promote mobility; to encourage rehabilitation and access to housing; to preserve our natural heritage and to fight against climate change; to make rural environment a great opportunity, with a global package that goes from strengthening to the zero tax strategy; to complement the entire workforce; to enhance the joys and prosperity of the forest industry; to enhance the competitiveness of the maritime sectors; to enhance the promotion of the environment; to enhance the promotion of the promotion of the environment; and culture. Ladies and gentlemen, with our budgetary strategy, we want first of all to strengthen the state of well-being. The priority is to continue to strengthen social spending and improve public services, as we are doing year by year, especially in the last three, because we have more resources. In 2018 we will spend EUR 1 billion more on social spending than four years ago. And Galicia will have the highest budget of its health history with 3,858 million euros, even higher than we had in 2009 than we had in 2009, which, as you well know, was inflated by 1,600 million euros, as shown by the negative settlement we are still paying. But beyond the quantitative, we, as a government, devote more resources to the most important, to people. This Government is intended for health at 40.7 % of total non-financial expenditure, five points more than the previous one. We arrive at 1,434 euros for the health of each Greek, 130 more. This government also devotes 24% of the non-financial expenditure to education, 1.2 points more than the above. We arrive at 4,610 euros for the education of every Greek from 2 to 24 years, 150 euros more. Ladies and gentlemen, these best figures and this greatest support for public health and education are not random, but they respond to the priorities of this German Government. Because social spending, job creation of quality and investment in production are the signs of this government's identity. In order to continue to bet on health, education, public social services and stability in public employment, we have agreed with six trade unions a public employment stability plan with 14,750 squares up to 2020, to reduce to 7% the rate of timelessness. In this respect, I can assure you that this year's public employment offer, which we originally planned in some 3,000 places, will finally be larger, exceeding 3,400, and we will approve them even this month of November. I would also like to announce to you that we will propose to six trade unions signing from the ambitious stability plan that the public job offer for 2018 has at least 3,400 other squares. In this way, in two years we will have offered around 7,000 quality jobs to strengthen our public services, including health care, education and social services. [[Applause]] Secondly, we want to strengthen our investment. By 2018 we will strengthen the investment, because we will have 1,570 million euros, 97 more than this year 2017 and 360 million euros more than four years ago. It's the biggest investment boost since before the economic crisis, we've increased the resources for investment in more than twice as much as budget does. During the economic crisis Galicia has led the investor effort, and now, with more resources, we want to redouble this effort to carry out new investor actions. Thirdly, we want to complete economic recovery and care for the people who need it. They are more and more Greek and Welsh to those who arrive at economic recovery, but the Government is aware that reality cannot hide that there are Greeks and Greeks who continue to have difficulties. To them, to those Greeks and Greeks that are still going through difficulties, it's to those that we have to answer with this budget, because much done doesn't mean that there isn't much left to do. That's why this budget bets on an equitable, inclusive and inclusive economic recovery. Why can we formulate the budget in these terms? First of all, because we have stability. Stability makes it easier for the people of Greece to make decisions with the certainty that the measures we take can be put into practice. This guarantee of stability, always important, is a clear comparative advantage when it occurs at a time like the current one, where Galicia is Spain's most stable autonomy. Secondly, because we have planning, we count on the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, and after a little more than two years of approving the strategic plan, we can humbly state that we are moving firmly towards the goals formulated in this government guide. The follow-up to the plan shows that the Autonomous Community is taking advantage of the favourable economic environment to reinforce its overall strategy by achieving results above those estimated in the main lines of action. These 2018 budgets represent the guarantee of further progress towards the achievement of the milestones marked in this strategic plan. In the first two years, the results are very positive, because we are consolidating an average sustained growth of about 3%, above 2.5 %, because we are helping to create even more jobs than originally estimated between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs by 2020. In the first two years closed, 42,000 new jobs have already been generated and we are ready to close this third year with almost 60,000 jobs created. For next year we want to reinforce this path of growth and job creation with a 2.5 % GDP increase and the creation of 17,500 jobs. Thirdly, this government has credibility, it has confidence. Precisely our stability, as a low value — I would say that very little today in Spain — is a solid piar to give reliability and to bring assurances to both families and businesses, and to continue consolidating the path of growth started in mid-2014, based on the sustainability of autonomous public finances. The Standard Qualifications Agency has just endorsed the financial and budgetary management that has been carried out by Junta, which it considers prudent and committed to fiscal consolidation and economic recovery. Fourthly, because we're a solvency community. As we have stated on other occasions, the realistic and early recognition of the economic crisis made by this Government, and as a result of the adaptation of public finances to real financial provisions, has proved key to being at the best economic moment since the crisis. This responsibility enables us to continue strengthening essential public services, lowering taxes, affecting the greatest investment momentum since before the economic crisis and paying our suppliers more and more with greater speed. We are also finishing the process of fiscal consolidation and obtaining financial savings over EUR 180 million over the past four years, resources that we can now devote and finance growth and employment. This same responsible action also allows us to have a situation of relatively better debt than the rest of autonomous communities; the latter aspect, too, that points out in its Standard's report, for it emphasizes that it activates management of indebtedness in Galicia its profile of debt dues to refinancing operations and expansion of its credit lines, as well as its ability to manage our liquidity position. Fifthly, we keep a steady growth. We're growing up solidly and continuously around 3%, as I said earlier, in the last three years. With the last known data we grew more than Spain and always far above the countries of the euro area. In 2017, we plan to exceed 3%, in particular the estimates indicate that we will close the exercise at 3.1%. And by 2018 we will maintain strong growth, in particular of 2.5%, above also of the expected in Spain, but with a prudent estimate derived from the current situation of uncertainty in Catalonia. Sixth place, because we retain our financial autonomy. Galicia has endured the economic crisis by maintaining its financial autonomy intact. Our community did not need to be rescued or needed at any time from state aid to pay its bills, and it was able to influence the central government to enable a specific mechanism for fulfilling and solvent communities — like Galicia — which is allowing important savings in debt interest. Ultimately, we can formulate budgets in these terms because our institutional stability leads to confidence and trust generates growth. [[Applause]] What does this budget translate into? All this allows us to strengthen our model of healthy growth towards a growth in stability. We have secured and strengthened social spending, we have controlled deficit and debt to be in practice fiscal consolidation in 2018 and with a use of minimum indebtedness; we are the head of Spain in the investor effort and we are among the autonomous administrations that we pay with greater speed. In the 2018 budgets we want to consolidate this growth in stability and strengthen our strategy with lines of action that promote competitiveness, innovation and technological development and promote the internationalization of different sectors of production and services. All of this is aimed at stimulating and promoting quality employment, which is another year's priority of these budgets, in particular our general economic policy. And we believe that this is possible because these second budgets of the legislature are presented, as I have already pointed out, in the best economic scenario since before the crisis. On what basis do I make this statement? In several contrastable data. The Greek industry is driving economic recovery, the business figure in the industry has grown to August by 8% above the average. Furthermore, the Galician industry is increasing its new demands and, of course, it guarantees its future. Galicia was the fifth community in which the most growing entry of orders to August, specifically 14%, almost six points more than the average. In the course of the year, orders increased by 9.4%, i.e. new charges for strategic sectors such as naval or automotive. By their band, trade continues to grow in Galicia by reactivating consumption, fruit of the economic improvement that reaches both families and homes. As the retail sales of the year grew by 2.3%, almost twice as much as the average. Galicia is the fifth best-behaved community in the third quarter. On the other hand, Galicia is the second largest community in the service sector in the year, almost 9%. And Galicia was the autonomy in which the invoicing of services grew the most in 2016, with an increase of 8.8%, the biggest in the historical series. Greek exports continue to mark historical figures and beat all records. Thus, from January to August — last known data — they increased by 8.4% over the same period of the previous year, in 2016 which was already a record year. In addition, Galicia has the second largest trade balance in Spain in absolute terms, with 2,787 million euros, 2,2 % more than in the same period of the previous year. Galicia therefore lives its best export cycle by making the last four years the biggest sales outside of our history. [[Applause]] This open economy abroad facilitates greater dynamism in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. In addition, the confidence of the German entrepreneurs is growing, as the data of the last year reflect. This increase in the confidence of our entrepreneurs is obviously a fruit of the best economic situation and also causes a recovery in the labour market. It could continue to come up with data, but the most important thing is that we are meeting the challenge that economic recovery is being consolidated in Galicia, and we have to continue on this path to get to more Greek and Greek people every day that they need. Because, Your Honor, since the Government we are fully aware that this good data cannot hide that there are Greeks and Greeks who continue to have difficulties. How does all of this reflect in the budget? First of all, with a balanced macroeconomic framework. We present for 2018 a macroeconomic framework that I consider very balanced. We intend to maintain the expanding phase of the Greek economy with a prudent increase that we estimate at 2.5 % in real terms; in nominal terms we will reach 4%, because — as I have already said — there are uncertainties about the current situation in Catalonia. In any case, we believe that we will grow more than Spain and obviously more than the euro area. We base this scenario on the following points: the rise in domestic demand, which will be greater than this year 2017 as a result of the best behaviour of both private consumption and investment; gross capital formation, which will grow in 2018 rather above what will do in 2017; and the net external demand that will also be positive next 2018. Exports will accelerate their growth due to the improvement of the industrial sector and the favourable development of the countries around it. On the other hand, imports will also increase by the greatest dynamism of the German industrial sector. Our budget will also have more income, but less taxes. We're consolidating the improvement of our income, which mostly comes from the system of self-financing. The income estimate reported by the Central Government for 2018 reaches EUR 7,412 million, a 5.4% higher than the current budgets. With this increase the system revenues for the next year are almost equal to the highest exercise, which was in 2009. And if you don't have to deduct the EUR 85 million from the payment of negative settlement in 2008 and 2009, they would be clearly higher for the first time than in the whole series. The evolution consolidates the positive path started in 2014, a exercise from which we have an accumulated rise of about 1,500 million euros. This good income evolution also allows us to keep the biggest tax rebates, which are already in force in Galicia since 2016. 99% of the taxpayers will still not pay the inheritance tax. 98.5% of the taxpayers, those with middle and low incomes, will continue to pay less for the IRPF and we will reinforce our zero tax strategy in rural areas. In the 2016 budgets, we eliminate taxes on land transmissions, for total or partial transmissions of agricultural holdings, or the increase in the size of holdings or transmissions to young farmers and for clustering of rustic farms. In the 2017 budgets, we eliminated taxes for the purchase of habitual housing in areas under 36 years of age, for numerous families and for people with disabilities. And for the 2018 budgets we reinforce this bet on the draft law of administrative and fiscal measures accompanying them, as we will see today afternoon. With incentives for those who engage in economic activity and contribute to dynamizing the rural environment, in particular for those who invest in land and rustic goods that find themselves underutilized and in a forest management society. But, moreover, we also introduce new tax rebates, with deductions for people who invest in the rehabilitation of buildings of historical centres or in economic utilities related to them, and the elimination of the tax on documented legal acts for those who buy industrial soil from public administrations. Thirdly, more spending capacity, because it's the highest budget since 2010. With these revenues for 2018 we will have a non-financial budget of almost EUR 9.500 million, in particular 9,487; EUR 266 million more than the current budget. We have three consecutive expansive budgets and we have EUR 1 billion more than in 2015. With this spending capacity we are already in the highest budget since 2010. However, if we take into account that the 2009 budget was inflated — as proved by the negative settlement, which was EUR 1,600 million that year — we are already at real levels something higher, but with more gross savings. A simple look at the evolution of the financing of our investments explains the very positive evolution of recent years. While capital expenditure has grown at a constant rate since 2014, its funding has become based on the resource of debt saving, in a very clear way this year 2018. This is another of the most important aspects of these budgets, because with the gross saving of 2018, with 300 million euros more in investment, we can already finance more than half of this savings, more than half of this gross-saving investment. This data is of great importance if we consider that only three years ago we had spent 13% of our investments on gross savings, and next year it will be more than half, in particular 54%. In just four years it multiplied by more than four gross savings; in 2014 it represented 190 million euros and for 2018 it will be 850. Less deficit and less debt. In the next exercise we will also continue to reduce the public deficit and debt. Galicia is the reference community in controlling the public deficit. We bet on a descending, progressive path, to avoid sudden adjustments, and this prudence worked out. Galicia increased its debt by six points less than the average of autonomous communities, and by 2018 we will already be in a technical fiscal consolidation, since net indebtedness will be very low, 193 million euros. Galicia surrendered during the crisis with responsibility, which allowed it to pass from before the crisis among the most indebted communities to being among the least indebted. In 2018 we will download the debt ratio/GDP, a downward trend that we expect will be consolidated in the coming years. A new example of prudence and responsibility in the indebtedness resource is that Galicia has been the second community that has reduced debt over the past four years. This responsible behaviour has clear economic effects, in four years we have halved interest in debt, so we have around 180 million euros more for investments. And if Galicia acted like the average of autonomous communities, it would now have about EUR 4 billion more debt by the end of 2017. I insist that this data goes beyond being at the head of a ranking, because the actual result and per capita indebtedness is more than 2,000 euros less than the average, when before the crisis it was the same. Therefore, this growth in stability allows Galicia to face the final line of fiscal consolidation, reduce the debt ratio, strengthen social spending and boost productive investment; at a time of uncertainty Galicia brings solutions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting these budgets at a time of uncertainties beyond Galicia but which, without a doubt, could have an effect on our society. The concrete impact on Galicia's growth will be a question that we will have to examine with the passing of the months, always strictly and depending on how events are going to develop. As usual, in this Government in budgets for 2018 we want to be cautious, limiting the estimated growth of GDP to 2.5%, forecast that we will update as the circumstances change. But as I said, in Galicia we will make the most of the stability we have and our potential to continue to consolidate economic recovery, to maintain that sustained growth, to facilitate the creation of stable and quality jobs and to prioritize the resources and actions that the Greeks and the Greeks demand of us. How do we try to respond to this set and enhance growth from our competences? By developing a realistic and useful budget, by presenting to the House reliable and cost-effective income accounts adapted perfectly to their funding capacity; by bringing people closer to people well-being, giving priority to people with more and better public services and with more support to families, dependents and seniors; by bringing together certainty and opportunities for entrepreneurs and businesses, by giving more facilities to entrepreneurs, self-employed and businesses to keep projects in mass, to attract new investments and to help them open up new markets for their products and services, in addition to maintaining commitment to pay our bills in an average period that does not exceed ten days. But taking care of our visitors and trying to capture more tourists. By betting for an increasingly professional tourist sector that is faithful to visitors and favors Galicia to receive tourists most of the year, and with the view already set on properly preparing the Xacobeo 2021. And in the face of unusual positions and risks, from Galicia we want and will continue to defend equity and equality for all citizens, maintaining firmly that funding for the provision of public services must be fair, regardless of the place of residence, and that it is absolutely necessary to quantify in a more appropriate way all the unique costs of providing essential services in Galicia, maintaining a system based on equality. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately in Galicia we can keep these proposals because we have economic, budgetary, political and institutional stability. Economic stability to continue to grow and create jobs; budgetary stability to continue to adopt measures for the sake of the Galicians and the Greeks; political stability to maintain a Government project and to implement the measures adopted in its budget, and institutional stability to maintain our self-government, our financial autonomy and the loyal relationship with the rest of the administrations. Our duty as the German Government is to make the most of this stability for the benefit of citizens, and we will do it. We want to help ensure that this stability benefits the well-being of the Greeks, we want to contribute to that this stability favors the installation of companies in Galicia, helping from the Administration to create the right conditions for attracting new investments, which entrepreneurs perceive as a safe place for their projects. Because in this way it will be more favourable to the creation of quality employment, and we want this stability to foster, too, inclusion so that people who need it have an ally in the Administration to integrate into society. For the 2018 budgets to be a step further in the path of equitable economic and social recovery, inclusive and inclusive, a recovery for all Greeks and Greeks. We, as the German Government, are committed to fulfilling our duty and thus we commit ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Debates and votes on the amendments to the whole proposal for a global refund of budgets or of any section or centre responsible for expenditure
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u4	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now move on to the debate and vote on the amendments to the whole demand for the global return of budgets or any section or expenditure management centre. For this round of amendments, Mrs Pontón Mondelo has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u5	Good morning, gentlemen. Allow me, Counselor, to begin today by quoting Bertolt Brecht, who said, "The crisis occurs when the old man has not just died and when the new one has not just been born." This budget project symbolizes that old crisis, it's budgets that essentially repeat the same failed proposals of ever time, proposals that, by the way, have made the crisis more profound and have created inequality, impoverishment of our society and an important suffering to thousands of Greeks and Greeks. It's more, I'd almost say your speech is pressed than you presented here in last year's budgets. In any case, we see that you have a neoliberal conception, a vision from the point of view of Galicia's predatory and neocolonial economic development, and that you are still students, the only one you are applied to, the centralism of Rajoy and the cuts of Montoro. Montoro and, of course, that centralism and that neocolonial and dependent conception of Galicia, that is indeed poison to our country. From the BNG we have tabled a proposal for a return, first of all by responsibility, because we actually believe that with the same recipes as this old model it is impossible to start our country. But also because it's the best measure for you to rectify and, of course, changed the deterioration and cuts by a positive policy, by a policy for the majority of society. Since BNG, we have made it clear that Galicia needs a change of course, a new solid economic model and a future, which trusts the potential of our country, which bets on the redistribution of wealth, equality, social progress and sustainability. But, however, we see how these budgets start from a self-comprehensive diagnosis, which doesn't want to recognize the weaknesses of the moment, and the truth is that we are faced with a precarious recovery, there is a slowdown in the economy and a rise in inequalities. And for our group the message of budgets for all these days in which they have been presented in Parliament — and with their speech today — they relay us or leave us a disturbing message before their eyes, and they don't really have a country project, they're installed in the most decadent routine and they don't hold hands with all those people who are actually suffering from the crisis and the theft of rights. [[Applause]] Because look, if the crisis is over, why do the cuts continue? Answer us, Mr. Martínez, if the crisis is over, why do the cuts continue? There's a diagnosis that, of course, is wrong. In fact, we're in a better economic situation than in recent years, we've experienced this great recession, but that doesn't mean that Galicia had come out of the crisis, because when half of the Greeks and the Greeks don't reach the end of the month, I don't think we can say that Galicia has come out of the crisis. Plus, we're still living in a crisis that has several dimensions. Let me tell you some. There is a crisis of the nation, because Galicia loses positions, we have less and less political weight, and this ends by paying the Greeks and the Greeks, because Mr. Feijó's submission has a very high price for this country. We've been denouncing what's going on for a long time, but it's just that a few days ago, last week, we knew as if we were again excluded from the Atlantic freight corridor, from the Trans-European Transport Network, and that means losing investments, losing opportunities to modernise our railway and thus losing economic opportunities. And what do you do to this, the German Government, the Rebel Feijóo? Say something? To sit in front of Madrid? To summon a mobilization as we see other territories summon in defense of their interests? No, the rebel Feijóo does what he does is to applaud that cut and deceive the Greeks and the Greeks by saying that this will be solved in 2023, when they know it's a lie. The same lies that we had here with the AP-9 veto; the same submission that we saw when they rescued Madrid's radials with 4 billion euros, while here we have the fees of AP-9 for the coming year; the same submission before the delay of the AVE, or the same submission to non-compliance with funding. [[Applause]] Because we have an unfair, discriminatory financing system with this country, and the best reflection of that discrimination we have in their budgets. Because, look, there are other State territories that this year have already exceeded the level of investment in 2009, and still Galicia is below, among other consequences, because of this subordination and because of this lack of defence of our country's interests. And indeed, Mr. Feijóo's submission is a luxury article: we have the triple debt that in 2009, but the Greek Government tells us that this is wonderful; we have a more deteriorating precariousness and public services, but the Greek Government tells us that this is a reality that is invented by the opposition. We have 1,500 teachers less than in 2009, with a more privatized health and more waiting list, but the German Government tells us to strengthen public services, and the only thing you've reinforced is privatization. And what we think is a major insult to all the people who are suffering from the consequences of an economic policy at the service of the bank — but not at the service of Galicia — is that you tell us that things improve socially. The truth is, what we have is a Galician with more inequality and more social unrest. Now, data from the Galego Institute of Statistics itself, the Gini index, which measures social inequality, is today higher than there was in 2009, but the rate of poverty today is five points higher than it was in 2009, and it grew three times faster than in the state as a whole. And also, Counselor, it has grown the precariousness, a precariousness that is the day-to-day not only of many young and young, but also of many women or many people who have been ill-lucked to lose their jobs when they were forty years old, and their economic recovery is not enough, because they have been unemployed for many years and there is no one to help them, no one to get them out of this situation. And what we see is that in this country the only thing that grows is the wages of Ibex 35, this year the members of Ibex 35 have a record of wages, EUR 644,000 a year, while the Greeks and the Greeks see how they work, but with what they earn at least. That is the result of the labour policy of reforms that have driven the People's Party and the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also now a democratic malaise, a malaise caused by the theft of rights, by the cuts of society and by the bites of laws. A malaise that causes us to see how ideas are pursued, with more political repression, and how fundamental freedoms are cut short, because you are unable to accept a reality, and that is something that we do have a direct cost to the Greeks and the Greeks, and that they do not accept that we are a nation and cannot forcefully impose on us their model of state and their expiry monarchy. And look, it's still a sarcasm that the PP, a party charged with corruption in the Gürtel plot, which destroyed the hard disks of Basel -- and now we know that Alberto Núñez Feijóo this seems right to you, it seems correct to you to destroy evidence indicting the corruption of the People's Party, which allegedly stole some 900 million euros public -- come here today to tell us that you are the champions of law enforcement. The corruption party tells us that they are champions of law enforcement. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that one day there will be justice and that they will pay for all the damage caused, and for all the theft, because part of this crisis is also caused by the corruption of their party. [[Applause]] And look, as I said at the beginning of my speech, these budgets represent old, failed policies leading to a serious social and national crisis in our country. You're talking about an expansive account and economic recovery, but this is what I think you have to recognize, by rigor — which is a word that you use with a lot of assiduousness in this House — that to say these are an expansive account that gets us out of the crisis is really an exaggeration, because what we're seeing is that there's an economic downturn, an budget that grows much below what has grown in the last two years, and we're far from recovering the 2009 figures; in any case, what's going on has not helped us to recover everything we've cut over the last nine years. And, indeed, this situation didn't have to be like this, because even though you practice single thinking, the truth is... yes, yes, there's never a single direction. And we're paying as a society are the consequences of brutal recentralization and political decisions that didn't benefit Galicia. For example, we could have more resources if there wasn't a corse that prevents us from being forced by Mr. Montoro and Mr. Rajoy to have a greater capacity for spending. Because they have accepted rules that mean wetting Galician self-government on paper, that we can't even decide on our level of spending, and they accept rules where the state always stays with most of the possibilities of greater investment due to debt or deficit. And why does the State use that higher spending capacity? To meet the health care, the dependence? By the way, they owe us 150 million euros that they don't want to claim to the state. They use the state for that? [[Applause]] No, no!, they increase the military spending by 30%. But it's just that you're also guilty of signing an unfair and insufficient funding system, and allowing that system to remain effective despite the fact that you know that every year it's going on is more negative to our country. Look, this year that we were in, the Central Government announced that it was going to have a collection record, even if it was going to exceed the collection figures of the years prior to the crisis. However, this state collection record, which we also pay for the Greeks and the Greeks, turns out it does not reflect on Galician investment and we have to continue to endure cuts in health care, education or public services. And you know why this is happening? Because, really, if they've been tightening up the citizens of this country, not to get us out of the crisis, not to get us to have better public services, but to rescue the bank. That hole of the 50,000 million euros that we're paying and that prevents us from having better public services. [[Applause]] But, look, let me now make two comments about the macroeconomic framework. The first is that these budgets are looking at an increase in GDP of 2.5%, which is below the forecast, and what we are saying is that this expansion, that sustained growth, does not happen, and that we have problems today because the economy is beginning to slow down. But in addition, it is surprising what is the responsibility of public administrations in this slowdown in the economy, because when we look at the paintings that you refer us to this Parliament, what we see is how precisely the components that depend on the Union and the Government of the State, such as the final consumption of public administrations, present a fall in relation to what we had for this year. I mean, public administrations reduce their consumption, and that's going to mean a disaster in our economy. But there's also macroeconomic data that improves, of course, but what's not true is that it means that citizens are in better conditions, because we're clearly seeing how there are very worrying symptoms of the fragility of the Greek economy in the model of economic development, but also in the labour model that you're imposing. Budgets place at 14.2% the unemployment rate for 2018, but an indicator such as the unemployment rate is not an absolute value, but we have to put it in relation to the other indicators in the labour market, which are the ones that will tell us whether things are going well or whether we have some aspects to which the Government of Greece, at least, should make some reference. The relevant thing is whether this economy is generating net jobs or whether, indeed, behind that drop in unemployment is, for example, emigration. I know you make immigration negationism, although during the Feijóo government, 250,000 people have emigrated to our country. Almost nothing! Give a laugh to Mr. Feijóo! I don't think he's giving so much laughter to the Greeks and the Greeks who are working at a bar in London. I don't think you're making fun of them! [[Applause]] But you in your own economic-financial report recognize that one more year of the drop in unemployment rate is by decreasing the active population, and so that means that this reduction in unemployment rate is not related to increasing employment, but to other factors such as ageing, emigration and falling in the active population rate, which seems to you, gentlemen, that you don't care. But there are other indicators that are also important and that we have to talk about. What kind of job is being created in our country? I think it's an important question. So we see how they work in Galicia today a little over 1 million people, which is a figure that's below the levels of 2011 and well below the levels of 2009. But we also have other indicators that tell us how that economic recovery is not reaching employment. I don't know if Mr. Martínez is generating some political reflection and from the point of view of what is happening in our country that the number of hours worked in Galicia is below 18% of the levels in 2008 and that even the latest data on the number of hours worked in Galicia in the last quarter of this year is below the year 2011. I mean, you're talking about job recovery, and yet we see how we actually have 20 percent less hours worked in 2008. All this is pointing to us is that there is a very strong fragility in relation to our country's economy and that we have a very serious problem because of the precariousness of our jobs. You made a reference at a time to the fact that the Strategic Plan was being fulfilled. However, what we see is that the indicators that we have what we are pointing out are the flagrant failure to meet the objectives of the German Government in this plan. You in the Strategic Plan 2010-2014 told us that they set the target of GDP per capita of Galicia to represent 95% of GDP per capita of the European Union in 2014. However, the situation was very different, because instead of converging 6 points with the European average, what we did was diverge into 9. And this gap continues to increase in 2015 and we still have a per capita GDP that is much lower than that of the state and which is far from European averages. I don't know if this concerns you or not; of course, BNG seems to us to be a question that should at least disturb the German Government and break up with that triumphal speech which is absolutely useless to change things in this country. In terms of income, how do you collect taxation and tell us we're better because we're going to collect more and more, the truth is, Counsellor, you're still focusing on lower fiscal progression. And he just recognized that his tax reforms that are depriving us of resources to better meet social needs, because they're still making tax reforms that benefit the highest income. And, of course, I am convinced that the workers in this country prefer those who have the most to pay more and that there is a rebalancing and redistribution through taxation. However, that's not the direction that you walk and what you do is you follow to an increasingly regressive model. Of course, Galicia has very limited tax competences — and we are going to debate it in the afternoon — but we believe it is necessary to address tax reforms within our capacity and to provide greater progress with the IRPF, which lowers the minimum exemption and introduces greater progress in property tax, in the same way that we believe there are aspects that we could explore from a fiscal point of view and that are not collected in this project that you refer us to the House, such as recording large commercial areas or addressing green taxation, which would be very important in order to be able to use those resources for mountain management or to stop the abandonment of the rural environment. In any case, in the afternoon we will have an opportunity to discuss some of these proposals. But let's focus now on what other reasons lead us to reject these budgets, which are those referred to as you prioritize spending. Clearly, the most important skills that Galicia has are in the field of health, education and social services, which are the ones that have the bulk of resources — let's say this is obvious. But what we see is that these budgets are still keeping very important cuts in education, where you don't even recover your 2009 investment. And it's not true that health really is better than it was, because the resources we have today do not have the same spending capacity that they could have in 2009. And really, we should analyze it in constant euros, because we have less capacity to invest in health care, education and other social services. They worry a lot -- and I was saying in my intervention -- about the rise in inequalities. And some of the data from your budgets that you're pointing out is that there's not a healthy and equal growth here, but that what's going on in Galicia is that it's being managed, that there's now a social crisis that gets deeper and deeper, that there's a lot of people at risk of poverty and that there's no alternative at this time. And the fact that this situation is best denounced is precisely that of Risga. In 2016 the beneficiaries of this aid were approximately 11,000 people, you plan in 2017 a similar figure — some 11,300 people — and by 2018 the perspective they have is that the number of people who access this risk is higher, which is around 11,000. But I don't know if it doesn't seem worrying to you that, with all the escape speech of the crisis, with all the speech that we're better at today, Risga's people are twice as much as they were in 2009. Because that means that, despite economic recovery, there are more and more people in our country who have a problem, because it has chronicled a situation of poverty and therefore that recovery is still a chimera. In the same way that for us, it is very important, therefore, to address the problem of employment. And here's a direct responsibility of the administration and that has to do with public employment. Of course, every time we saw the budgets, there are announcements of public employment calls, which then in many cases are published but not executed, and that's a first responsibility that the Government has. But when we look at the situation from the point of view of public employment, the fact is that we see that there is no recovery from all the jobs that have been lost during the crisis. In 2009 the total number of public employees in Galicia was 154,995, with a presence corresponding to the Galician Union of 89,299. In 2017, it is 86,268. Therefore, 3,000 public employees are still missing. They are data extracted from the figures you refer to Parliament; if you give us data that are false, in any case tell us, because I do think it would be serious. However, when we look at the nature of these positions, as public employment has evolved, we see how the staff have made the statuary decrease, how the staff staff has diminished and how the work has done so much less. In other words, in the area where they created autonomous public employment, they were made with part-time, temporary and temporary workers. Look, we've moved from the beginning of the crisis from more than 75,000 staff to 60,000, from 12,000 temporary and interim to nearly 18,000, i.e. you're doing it, you're increasing temporality and lowering the fixed staff of the administration. And, therefore, the contribution of the Galician Employment Board was to increase inequality, work instability and precariousness. And this has a very big impact -- you know -- on female employment, because most of these jobs occupy women. [[Applause]] And, therefore, the contribution you're making to female employment is that of inequality. But, of course, there are other elements in which the Galician Union can influence how to modify the economic model and how to bet on the creation of quality employment. And you put Galicia in the innovation queue wagon. That's the contribution you've made to this matter. And, let me say, today, I am picking up a medium of communication — the voice of Galicia — a news that I believe you deserve to at least hear the European Commission's assessment on the subject of innovation. He says, in connection with this, that Galicia occupies a lagging position, the trailer, without being able to stop the brain drain. And a good part of responsibility is government's low-quality policy, which hampers economic development and reduces the effects of public investment, including co-financing for cohesion policy. "The Community Executive suspends Galicia on its 2017 review. According to the Community Executive, less corruption would be necessary, more effectiveness of justice, more transparency and improvements in the labour market, because, without changing that, it would be impossible to boost the economy and avoid emigration of the population of the territory." And these budgets are still not correcting a very serious structural problem and they're going to mortgage us for the future, as are the cuts they've made in innovation, because the rise they're making is very small and, of course, it doesn't compensate for everything they've done. Nor do we see in economic matters that you have any solvent alternatives, and even in important areas, such as industry, energy, business development, the promotion of economic soil. In the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy, you have major cuts, as in employment, in the use of rural environment, in actions of a general nature. I mean, we see these budgets as aspects that would be important in improving the country's economic situation, they don't have the necessary economic support either, and they therefore affect a model that we think is a regression model. And, as we have very little time, I would like to mention an area that is central to any policy in a nation like ours, with a language and a culture of theirs, and we see how economic suffocation continues. It is true that in 2008 the funds for standardization are growing, but they are really one third of those in 2009. You're forecasting 6.8 million today, compared to the 21 that was destined for Galician Union in 2009. Nor is there support for culture, for reading. We see how in libraries, archives and reading promotion is half what was in 2009. In the acquisition of book funds for libraries, half of what was in 2009. In the edition of the book in English, a third of what was in 2009. In short, a misery to address the serious social problem that has our language and the need for our culture of support today. But there's a final part that I would like to mention and that has to do with the rural environment. These budgets make it impossible that the fire strike did not exist, and they haven't made any corrections in relation to the need for a change in forest policy, and even take down investment in fire prevention, reduction in transfers to local authorities to do prevention work or reductions in the Gagale Emergency Agency, which we're seeing as an area in which we need to improve. And, therefore, we see that in that sense the Galician Union presents some accounts that want to do as if there was no ecological disaster and that do not provide for a comprehensive recovery plan, an environmental recovery plan, but also from an economic point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u7	And finally, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, just with one last thought. Budgets do not cease to be a statement of intent, and we see it, as over these years, the Galician Union has invested poorly in those aspects that are most important, such as investing in real investments, where the levels of execution over these years have been really low. And today he comes here to present the public accounts and we see as advisors such as the Environment, Economics, Rural Environment or the Council of the Sea are at 30% running on September 30, and we see how the degree of execution of chapters that have to do with real investments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u9	...and capital transfers to September 30 are at 35 % and 29.42 %. And this is indicating that in the most important aspects of your government this year, instead of being an engine of the economy and having almost executed at this point all those transfers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u11	...because it seems to leave it or everything by the end of the year or everything not executed. And that's very bad news for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u12	Mrs. Pontón, thank you very much. Mr Fernández Leiceaga has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u13	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. The truth is that this discussion of the state's general budgets for 2018 should be a good opportunity to define priorities, to see... — Excuse me? [[Murmurs.]] From Galicia, general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2018, I apologize—... that we want the elected representatives of our society. Let me take our answer from the last book of Antón Costas the idea that the greatest intensity of the Spanish and Galician crisis, with social distress and the political seizures that accompanied it, resulted in a rupture of the social contract that has been in force since the beginning of democracy; a social contract that involved having, on the one hand, confidence in the market system as a producer of efficiency, growth, but also in the democratic state as an instrument of redistribution and creation of equal opportunities, which in Galicia and Spain also mean confidence in decentralization. And the crisis broke this link between market and social progress, partly because since before the crisis all over the Western world it was reinforcing the power of capital, as Piketty well explained in a book that had been very successful about inequality. But in the crisis itself, all the dilutions, the changes it has brought about and the policies of austerity itself in Europe, which today are being questioned from the Commission's own leadership, because they have a role to play. And in this breakdown, in this gap, solutions have blossomed that either attempt or evacuate our future functioning of the market, without knowing exactly why this instrument is going to be replaced, or either aim to substantially reduce the role of the public sector by relying on a false reading of the causes of the crisis and limiting its social and redistributive component. For us, on the contrary, it's something else. It is about recomposing that social contract, adapting it to the new circumstances of European construction, globalization, the new model of industrial growth, learning from success; restoring a social contract based on the deepening of democracy, the achievement of prosperity through a fair market economy, decent treatment of effort and work, the consolidation of the state of well-being and political autonomy. This is what over two or two centuries ago and half social philosophers tend to call "the good society", adapted to our time. A recent economic nobleman, Professor Shiller, defined "good society" as the one in which each of us aspires to live: an equal society, a society in which respect and support for others is guaranteed. We've spent almost four years of economic recovery, we've had many quarters growing around 3% in real terms. And maybe the good question is whether we're getting closer, after this time of sustained growth -- which I suppose we all recognize -- to good society, if we're getting closer to the ideal of a good life for all, a good life in which freedom gains spaces against the need in which we can reduce risks and where opportunities increase. Is the budget of the Galician Union well oriented to facilitate the life of the Greeks in this direction? Our answer, synthetically, is negative, and we're going to try to explain why, in three reasons. Because it is based on socially unbalanced growth, without any mechanisms in the budget itself that contribute to reducing this imbalance. Because it renounces an income policy that acts on equity and efficiency and therefore reduces the tax base of the Galician Union and its own ability to act through spending on elements of inequality. And thirdly, because it reinforces a model of action which, with inertia, avoids sufficiently regaining the future and acting on the difficulties present to our society. So let me start with the macroeconomic context. The macroeconomic forecasts managed by the Galician Union indicate, on a line widely shared by many analysts, a remarkable slowdown in growth by 2018, a fall of almost 20% of that rate of growth. But let me quote them a few lines of their economic-financial report, on page 21, where I believe that, in an attack of sincerity that we all celebrate, they tell us that — quote: "These lower potential growth rates are problematic for various reasons. 1. They make it hard to improve the living levels of the poorest. 2. They make the distribution of income and wealth more painful. 3. It discourages investments that promote productivity. 4. They affect the sustainability of social protection networks with public funding. 5. And they live up to political resentment by tarnishing hope in the future and undermining confidence and equity in economic results." This is what your economic and financial report tells us on page 21. We can't agree more. It's a true description of the problems that Greek society has: poverty, inequality, economic stress, disincentives to growth. And the first question we ask ourselves is whether these questions, which you really describe, have an appropriate answer, a fair and necessary answer in the accounts presented to this House. And our opinion is again negative. We say that the Galician Union is aware of the difficulties without reacting more than partially. There is a small reaction — I admit — to them, like a doctor who perfectly diagnoses the diseases of a patient who enters his or her consultation but sends him home prescribing the usual and trusting the placebo effect. It is the Galician Junta of the placebo effect presented to us by the 2018 accounts, confident that, repeating at all times that we are better, we forget the difficulties. [[Applause]] They also tell us — and I agree — that the difficulties with the rate of growth basically depend on the external effects. If we listen to the Spanish minister of economics, it finds the Catalan crisis and the uncertainty generated by it a fall in the rate of growth of 0.5%, which is about what the accounts provide for Galicia. This was about 300 million euros in the case of Galicia in terms of GDP, and in jobs about 3,000 fewer jobs, as well as a fall in autonomic revenues of around 60 million euros. And I have to say that to me it's very sensitive costs that indicate how irresponsible political behaviors are affecting our collective well-being from seemingly far away from us. Of course, there are also other external factors, such as the rise in the price of oil, the slowdown in growth in the United Kingdom — which has already begun to be noticed — and some others. Not everything is Catalonia, but Catalonia is very important. And what I'm asking is how we fight these effects, because on this we have little capacity for direct action. It is precisely our dependence on external markets that makes these problems serious and leaves us with little reaction capacity. If everything depends on others, what are we doing with our self-government? Our idea is that our self-government serves, but it's the options of inertia, conservatives, chosen by this Government of the Union that explain this disability. We're going to spend a few minutes commenting on some aspects of the macroeconomic framework in the first place. When we discuss the spending ceiling, we've warned that in our opinion the difficulties that our economy has is as if it had one of its engines, that of internal demand, fluted and works with another engine that is acting well, which is that of the international demand of our products. Economic expansion is much more influenced by international demand than in Spain. The weakness of the behavior of factors dependent on internal agents is deeper in Galicia; it's very specific in Galicia. Something's wrong. And when there's a blockage in the decision of private agents, families that don't consume enough, companies that are reluctant to invest, it's public action that has to go out to rescue. This is what we learned from crises, but it's not what the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo does, trapped in an ideology of austerity that today continues to prescribe indentations to a sick person who still needs some transfusions, as indicates the huge rate of unemployment that we still drag on above all among the young population. It is the international bodies themselves who defend the need to raise wages, i.e. to act on domestic demand for recovery. The European Commission, its President, has just said so very recently. The International Monetary Fund insists on the same idea. In order to combat political excretion, it is necessary to reconcile the basic social contract, and today this is about substantially reducing social precariousness. More employment, more stable employment and decent wages would be the right recipe, as a matter of equity, to reduce excessive inequalities. Today the percentage weight that they have wages in Galicia is the lowest in the historical series, has been progressively reduced since 2009 and today is at the lowest point in the historical series, by the new forms of employment surely, by the smallest busy base in our economy, but also because the productivity increases that have occurred since that year have been shifted very little to wages and, instead, the gross surplus of exploitation, profits and mixed income, weighs more than ever in the historical series; they are another component; if one is lower than never, the other is higher. We say that in the economic conflict between work and capital, the latter is winning and the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo is collaborating. But we must also combine that basic social contract with a question of efficiency and not just fairness. The economy — and in particular, the Galician — would be more stable, would produce more confidence, would encourage good economic behaviors for workers and businesses if it worked with two engines rather than with one engine. Wage adjustment continues, despite job recovery, surely because the crisis has undergone a change in the rules of play, and that is why it is necessary to review, it is necessary to eliminate the work reform of 2012, giving rise to elements that substantially reduce the negotiating capacity of workers' representatives. The wages in Galicia, in relation to Spain, do not improve, despite the fact that we have a slightly lower unemployment rate and a more favourable behaviour of productivity. Something's not working well in the labour market when these things happen. Wage adjustment should make it possible to combine benefits and, through benefits, to act on growth rates, by boosting productive investment, by creating a dynamic of productive investments and by this way, by recovering more employment than in Spain, finally allowing us all to benefit from these conditions. But this happy story is not happening. The second engine, which is fluent, of the economy plane continues to fail. And possibly the failure is that some of the mechanisms that transfer benefits to employment by that way are blocked. And the mechanic should be able to repair that operation and allow this to work properly. The mechanic, no doubt, is the Council of Galicia in this case. Why aren't they working? Well possibly because he's operating the simple keynesian equation that binds the savings rate to the income level. By strengthening high incomes, savings are dissipated, and this should allow investment, but as we all know well after Keynes, savings and investment have different determinants, and it can raise the savings rate but investment doesn't work properly. Recently BBVA published a statistic on the relationship between credits and deposits at the level of autonomous communities. Well Galicia is at the bottom of the table, only better than an autonomous community. We have a imbalance, i.e. deposits below credit, around 20% of gross domestic product, which is a capital imbalance. It means: we can discuss the figures, but we have a trend; this means that Galicia's financial resources are coming out through the banking system — and probably also through other capital markets — preventing rates of growth above the Spanish average. There are other areas in Spain and other countries that receive the social product of the effort of the Greeks; they can grow more and create more jobs because our savings find there investment opportunities that you don't see in Galicia. And in this mechanical context you have to act. The tools you're using, the procedures you're using to unlock that engine are not operating, and, to shut down the engine, there's probably no other way to introduce more fuel into the economy, spending more and better, and favoring wage income, especially the lowest. Our thesis is that strengthening wage income would have more positive effects on employment growth and income of the Galician Union. Let's talk a little bit about the external connection. It is true — you said — that exports are going well; we have, strictly speaking, very positive accounts in international trade. This seems good to us, it seems perfect, but it is true that exports are too focused on the European Union, depending on a small number of sectors and businesses. There is work to be done to expand the export base, to diversify production and markets, because the European Union is a mature market and greater export growth would depend on being able to enter markets with much higher growth prospects in the future. Above all, we must know that this international trade surplus has its share in an intense interregional trade deficit with the rest of Spain, the difference from what happens in other autonomous communities; we have bought much more than we have sold to the rest of Spain. There's a job to be done here, there's a job that should concern us too; it's not just the international market; we're selling Spain much more than we sell in the international market, and there we have a serious imbalance in our external accounts. But also in the services. What is growing most in services is advanced services to companies, and in that particular field, in this particular section, we have a capital imbalance. Galicia has to move much further and we must have a specific public policy in this direction, using all those mechanisms that may have the Galician Union, including its great purchasing power, to make companies sit in Galicia advanced service production centres, where we would be able to generate high-quality and well-paid jobs. The macroeconomic framework is also pointing to that in Galicia there is a weak relationship between economic expansion and job creation. We have a very weak Okun rule. In Galicia each additional point of GDP growth produces less net occupation than in Spain, and we no longer speak of Portugal. And if we don't have a greater volume of unemployment is because we have an incorporation of Thursdays into the active population that, as a result of us dragging more than 20 years into the fall of fertility, is very limited, and so it's the reduction in the active population that is positively affecting our unemployment rates, not because we create more jobs, but because we don't incorporate as many young people as we ought to. Finally, quickly, a look at economic convergence. Rare has been the way forward since 2008, just one point of profit in terms of comparison with the rest of Spain and of course a remarkable loss compared to the whole of Europe, but the whole and a little more of that increase is due to Galicia's specific demographic adjustment, because we have reduced our demographic weight on Spain and reduced our economic weight — but a little less. And, therefore, all the contribution to convergence comes from the side of the demography, negative. And we can't try to convert what you define as the serious problem of Galicia for the future, as it's a regression demography, into what you're favoring us economically now. The first conclusion, therefore, is that, in order to restore the basic social contract, to promote an inclusive economy and strengthened growth, they must change the economic policy they present to us in these budgets. We have a second conclusion, which I'm going to explain in a bit more synthetic way, and is that economic recovery does not move to the income of the Galician Union with enough intensity by decision of its Government. We have a level of public income that is similar to that of Lithuania or Poland, far away from Denmark, Finland, Germany or France. Who do we want to look like? We can't have welfare services from the Nordic countries, we can't have a family policy like France or Sweden, an educational policy like Finland, if we want to have a taxation like Lithuania or Poland. And we have to decide who we want to look like. And it is not bad for us that there are taxes, because they are necessary to ensure the adequacy of public accounts, in the short term and especially in the medium and long term. Your choice is a medium-term risk, because we're going to have an older population, which is going to weigh decisively on health accounts, on health spending, on social spending, and we need resources to meet these challenges. We need resources to be able to cope with the progressive reduction of European funds as a result of many things, including Brexit itself, which affect these accounts. So we need to have an income policy that looks at the medium and long term and that runs away from short-practice. On the cost rule, I have to tell you that we share the principle, but we have already warned you when discussing the expenditure ceiling that the way to determine this rule by the Ministry of Farm is excessively conservative. Mr. Montoro had committed himself to revising this rule for 2017 and did not do so, emphasizing conservative bias in the application of the principle of stability to public finances throughout Spain. On the financing system, you must recognize with me that the entire financial margin of 2018 accounts depend on the system of autonomous financing, on the effort made by the system of self-financing. The problem was not the system with regard to adequacy, the problem was the economic situation it was operating on, and so you should be a little more modest about this, and even, at last, you should apologize for the assessments you made of it. We need to review the system, yes, because it's an excessively complex system and because it's a system that doesn't guarantee fairness — and we agree with that — and it's not transparent. And in that sense, my question is, when will we have any news on this matter? Counselor, in that famous song, tell me when, when, when. When are we going to have any news about the funding system? Is it going to be no 2017, no 2018? We've been waiting since 2014 for the system review, it should be time that we've had some news. In relation to debt and deficit, today we have the highest autonomous debt in Galicia in history, yes, although it is sustainable and that it resists well comparison with other autonomous communities -- I'm not saying that we can't pay for it in the future -- and it resists the comparison well. But we also have to say that the austere Mr. Feijóo is responsible for seven out of ten euros of debt we have today, seven out of ten, and the other three are in his highest proportion attributable to Mr. Fraga. It turns out that the overthrower Mr. Touriño is responsible for less than one euro of every ten debts, and the austere Mr. Feijóo of seven out of ten. Let's take this into account when we look with a little perspective at what's going on. But debt is not a problem today, it's not a problem. So that's how my proposal is to increase it a little more. You take a consolidation path that reduces the possibility of spending by the Autonomous Community in 2017 and 2018, 60 million, a little more already this year, which could be devoted to investment, together more than 120 million euros in two years. It would be another element of a more expansive economic policy, which could arrest that engine of domestic demand more intensively, as long as economic investment continues to be low in its execution, not in the figures that appear in the budget, but in its execution. The year 2016, the year of the lowest investment of the last fifteen, running, on recognized bonds, if we included all capital expenditures, which would be the best way to do it so we wouldn't be tricked into each other. This voluntary option of the Greek Government also implies refusing to fight for a fair distribution of debt levels among public administrations, a more fair distribution, a dispute in which Mr. Montoro is a judge and a party: it is that he remains with most of the debt of the deficit and, therefore, from incorporation into debt and leaves them alone, at last, some remains to the autonomous communities and nothing to the municipalities. So this is a fight that should interest us all, too. Of course, if you give up on investment opportunities, why are you going to worry about this? If they give up the possibility of indebtedness to finance investments, why are they going to worry about this? They're still being an excessive bet on fiscal consolidation and adjustment, which is a problem for economic stability, to boost much higher economic growth. And finally, about autonomous taxation, very quickly. A 19th-century American poet, little known, told us that taxes are the price we have to pay for a civilized society. So we're not afraid to talk about taxes. The good society we advocate demands a level of reasonable taxes, with fiscal progressivity, universal taxes and well-managed. We have no allergy to any of this; if to a wrong design, if to a complex regulation, if there are no general criteria, if there is an excessive fraud, if there is too high a level of taxes. But it seems to us that self-tax policy in recent years is wrong, firstly because it reduces enough, therefore, the ability to offer quality public services, and secondly because it does not offer good performance, neither in terms of equity nor in terms of contribution to growth. In terms of equity, because with a rise inequality, as we have seen before, drive the erosion of direct taxes while maintaining indirect taxes -- because you don't have too much normative capacity on these -- because you end up making that inequality can be greater than ever, you end up strengthening capital against income from work, with the effects that we see later when you see the contribution of each factor of production to GDP. But also when it comes to efficiency. We prefer simpler, more neutral taxes, with more universal treatments, instead of a varied menu of tax benefits, of difficult evaluation, which favor few and above all those who have good tax advisers and make it difficult to meet obligations, generating more inequalities again, especially because we are skeptical about the effects that this can have on economic growth. Did you get Junta through tax incentives to promote growth? With its rural policy, it turns out that rural jobs have fallen from 117,000 in 2008 to 70,000 in 2016, it turns out that the useful agricultural area has a reduction in terms of CAP declarations by more than 20% in recent years and the emergence of new businesses in Galicia is far below Galicia's contribution to the economy. Where are the positive effects of these incentives? They'd have to tell us where they are. Another tax policy is therefore possible, a tax policy that leads to progressiveness, to act on direct taxes, and to strengthen green taxation, with a double tax dividend. That's what we want. Very quickly, in the cost profile, we also believe that a different economic and social policy is possible here. A project is missing for the country, a strategy of social integration and economic growth is missing. Social wounds are so deep that putting some remedies in such a worn-out suit what makes the damage stand out more. Ineffective synergies are so consolidated in the modernization programme that it gives the same place where the resources are greater. There's no response intensity to today's emergencies or an effective preparation by tomorrow. That is our third conclusion, that our Mr. Abel Losada will probably explain in more detail in the afternoon. Staff assessment: EUR 80 million is reserved at the expense of the General Courts' decision on the administration's budgets for 2018. In addition to renouncing the part of the authorized debt and reducing its own collection in autonomous taxation, they sterilize more than a quarter of the margin available for 2018. It's in the budget, but it's not up to you. What do we propose? We propose to use it, to start returning unpaid extra payments to the Galician board staff and, above all, to promote a policy of regeneration of basic public services. The Galician Union lacks a consistent plan for improving basic public services. Moderate ups of health or education resources only allow staff salaries to be cared for. Targeting half of that figure — 40 million — to put in place a plan for strengthening staff in health care and education would allow us to start re-establishing what was lost during the crisis. You know, you talk so much about multilingualism, but then you have the lowest Erasmus scholarships in the autonomous Spanish communities. And this affects, above all, preventing external mobility and strengthening the knowledge of language to people, families with lower incomes. The incorporation into the labour market of our youth should be fundamental, with 33% unemployment. But what message do we give him? Are there additional efforts in training for employment, for example, that should be so important?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u15	One minute. There is a recovery of investment from the minimum values from the period 2013 to 2016, but it is a very insufficient effort, and above all a very low execution capacity — I mean — in 2016, the lowest of all years of the crisis, not reaching at least 900 million, when in 2008 we were talking about executions above 2,000 million euros. Finally, the Galician Union lacks a necessary reflection on the budget deficit and has serious shortcomings in employment policies or industrial soil promotion policy. I'm done, Mr. President. We propose the return of the budget, and we propose it because the basic social contract of our democracy will remain ill-treated, we will not be able to approach the ideal of good society at the required speed. Keynes, in 1930, in Madrid, at a well-known conference, was alerting, in a situation of great depression like we lived a long time ago, against the pessimism of revolutionaries, who believed that only a traumatic change could improve things so badly they were, and against the pessimism of reactionaries, who considered the state of social life so precarious that experiments were discarded. I hope that pessimism will not once again be an obstacle to social progress in equality and a more quality democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u16	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the guest gallery.]] Please, visitors who accompany us today, can't make demonstrations from the rostrum. Thank you. Mr Villares has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The question to answer is obvious: if we have the same wealth as in 2009, than before the crisis, why do we have to live worse? Come up here and hold that question to us, and we'll give up, and we'll give the budget debate a good deal. Why do we have a budget of 23% below 2009 with the same gross domestic product, with the same Brazilian national wealth?, and we say 2009 because it was the year you took as a reference to the year before the crisis, from the pre-crisis budgets. Why does national wealth not serve to recover rights for citizenship? Why, with wealth, does the government not make budgets that think about people, take care of people and pick up people who have been the government leaving behind for these years? Why isn't there the same job as before the crisis? Why isn't there the same rights as before the crisis? Why isn't there the same resources to serve public services as before the crisis? Why? Well, because you're incompetent people who can't manage. Because you're a government that decided to abandon the population, as they did during the fire strike. And this time it's no longer worth taking out of credit, getting out of the credit of his good image, because his good image, the good manager's picture, was burned during the fire strike. The Beejou burned that facade during the fires and no one already trusts that credit that is absolutely amortized. Nobody trusts a government that doesn't care about people's problems. And what are the people's problems, the ones you talked about here little? First of all, the job. EUR 230 million less for employment policies than in 2009, the year you took your reference. But we don't need to go to the year 2009, as we'll demonstrate later, because, in relation to the year 2017 itself, for employment policies there are 1.5 million euros less than in the previous exercise. People's concerns are social justice, basic services, equal opportunities. Well, we found ourselves in health care, compared to that year 2009, with 397 million euros less. For education, 436 million euros less. Infrastructure, 50% less investment. In industry, 33% less. For the promotion of soil for economic activities, EUR 11 million less. For industry, 13 million less than in 2017. A nominal cut also for the year 2018. We're not going to talk about the emigrant youth, without active employment policies explicitly directed to looking for the return of the emigrant population, our young people who are at work and in reproductive age. Then it's weird that birth falls! It's because the people who can raise the birth rate are outside, and it's outside because you expelled them with your active immigration policies. No basic public services, no expectations for the future for that youth, no emigration and no remaining ones, which have to conform to living a day. And neither do budgets that don't intend to recover a land devastated by the fires, the fires of their incompetence, not only in the management of the weekend, but all that came after and the inability to react through announced measures, without any kind of budgeting. You were eager to come here to present the budgets, and you could have presented them later, without having to wait for later in the process of amendments to do so; you could have delayed a few weeks and we could have made them with those budgetary adjustments to think about the full recovery of the territory, which is not just the recovery of the fires, is the recovery of the territory to have a living territory. But now that with the fires everybody knows that you're a political incompetent and are bad managers for your country's needs, it'll be much easier for you to understand that these budgets don't seek the happiness of people. We have a context in which the economy grows, rather, we should say that the economy grows in spite of you, because you were responsible, firstly, that during the recession the loss of national wealth in our country was exacerbated and that later, when the data started to be positive in all the surrounding economies, here we will grow less. However, we have the same level of wealth as in 2009 and yet it is destined to pay wages nothing more and nothing less than EUR 2,200 million less. That means we have the same wealth as before the crisis, but it's worse distributed, worse redistributed. Because we deny the escape of the crisis. We can get out of the crisis at an economic level, but not at a level of rights, not at a social level. The crisis, which was a real scam, because it was taken advantage of to make reforms that had nothing to do with the causes of the economic crisis, suffered damage in the social model, raising levels of precariousness, unemployment and current inequality. And you have this to avoid getting out of the crisis, people's crisis, not numbers crisis. Or does GDP grow? Indeed, but social inequality also does. Specific data relating to Galicia published by you. In Galicia there are 140,000 jobs less than in 2008. Half the working class is already precarious. There are 71,000 unemployed people more than before the recession, 62,000 homes with all their members unemployed. All the employees and employees in our country lost purchasing power, 8% average, but those victims of the precarious dictatorship, 25%. 1 out of 3 employees in Greece and employees in Greece is a poor worker. Poverty also affects self-employed people, because 55% declare income below 500 euros a month. You'll say if you can live well like this and if the crisis ends for these people. Families have lost 20% of their purchasing power in the recession, they're about 20% poorer now that nine years ago. And in 44% of the homes in Greece, the sum of the income of all their members is not as high as 1,500 euros. Homes in Greece where the fall of real spending in relation to the pre-crisis is 25%, with a country with 700,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, an AROPE rate of 25%, which means that 1 out of 4 people in our country is in this situation, with 63% of pensions below the poverty line and with pensions from the lowest in the state, which have also lost 3% of the purchasing power in recent years. Are these the people you're taking care of? Is this the right way out of the crisis you're advocating? No, this is an escape from the crisis through inequality, cuts, social injustice, and we can't afford it. We have a union policy that abandons people, and it seems absolutely unacceptable to us, and this has people responsible for it. First of all, regressive and antisocial labour reforms, which cut labor rights to impose wage devaluation, that is, people cover less, and extreme precariousness, that is, employment of the worst quality. And secondly, austerity policies, compulsory austerity policies of cuts, which have reduced the capacity of the public to make equality policies, i.e. income policy and public expenditure. I mean, you've actively intervened to avoid the redistribution of wealth income and so that we could occupy ourselves through the public of people who were worse off. We have an increasingly unequal and unfair society, we are victims of inequality and precariousness, with an increase in temporary work, part-time work, very low jobs or very low wages in activities of low added value, with a worsening of working conditions, the lengthening of the often unpaid schedules, with a serious deterioration in the protection of unemployment. And figures, figures, also macroeconomic figures. Yes, we are suffering an unfair redistribution of wealth that affects inequality. In 2008, we spent 48% of GDP paying salaries and now we're only 43%. In 2017 we again have a volume of GDP as before the crisis. However, wage income, as I said earlier, is €2.2 billion below. We have the same wealth but unjustly distributed. And the Gini index, which was also commented on here, which is used to measure inequality in income distribution, went from 27.2% in 2008 to 28.7% today. And that's your responsibility. The crisis was a scam, it caused the globalized system without standards and then it was used to derail and degrade a social model; a scam that has the confirmation that in the three years of what the Government calls recovery there has been no progress or step towards solving the underlying problems. What are the underlying problems our country has? First, to recover the level of public income that enables to finance a State of welfare worthy of such name; secondly, to recover lost social and labour rights; and thirdly, to address the path to change the country's productive structure, which is increasingly dependent on seasonal activities and services in areas of low added value. But this is difficult, because, with your budgets, supported in time, Galicia is on the tail of growth. The recession has affected all autonomous communities, yes, but ours is more than the average. In Spain, from 2009 to 2013, the gross domestic product fell by 8.6% and in Galicia by 9.5%. And now exactly the opposite is happening: in the period 2014-2016 GDP grew in Spain by 8%, while in Galicia it did just at 7.4%. Congratulations! His management of the crisis has made it deeper and the exit is slower. And this in economic terms, because in social terms we have no chance of recovering lost rights, because they deliberately stole them from us. Galicia has also had the worst development in employment since 2008. Since 2008 Galicia is the autonomous community that has the worst work evolution of the seventeen that make up the State; not among the worst, the worst, with the sum of the three fundamental data; not in any of these variables, at all. Because Galicia is the autonomous community in which the most jobs have been lost, where unemployment has increased and where the most active population is reduced, the three key variables to measure the evolution of the labour market. That's why from En Marea we're talking about the work anomaly in Galicia. In these nine years, in Galicia the number of people with employment declined in 144,000, a figure equivalent to 12% of the employment in 2008. Fewer employment, which moves, besides, the unemployed, though the number may not have fallen from the active population and therefore hides some of this drama. Galicia is the second autonomous community in which the number of unemployed people has increased most. There are 71,400 more than in 2008, an increase of 64%, while in the state as a whole it was 44%, i.e. 20 points of difference. A situation that is actually more serious because a fall from the active population is hidden. Since 2008 144,000 jobs have been lost, but unemployment has only increased by 71,400. Where's the 72,000 difference? Well, in inactivity. An evolution of employment that is also disappointing; we do not understand how you come here to say that you are satisfied with that evolution and with your own predictions announced at the beginning of the legislation. The estimate of the employment generation included in the macroeconomic framework is so disappointing that it self questions that tone you used here. In the fifth year of the cycle, the estimate is just 17,500 new jobs, only 1.6% increase, a figure that is clearly insufficient — in our opinion and in any one, especially those who are stopped — for the job challenges we face; that is, to give a job opportunity to 181,700 unemployed people and to recover at least the level of occupation prior to the recession. Today there are 144,000 jobs left to return to that situation, to the situation in 2008. And with the current pace, with their adjusted forecasts -- with their own forecasts -- it would take us nine years to achieve it. Until 2027 we wouldn't have the employment level of 2008 -- that is, two decades to go back to where we were. Two decades lost for the job because it wouldn't have been you who, since they arrived in the Government, even if they ruled until 2027 -- if the citizen didn't want it -- to get to the situation that you found when they started with this situation of abandonment and disillusionment across the country. But there's more, the estimate for 2018 is so low that it questions the goals and the commitment of the Union to generate those 100,000 jobs that you were talking about at the beginning of the legislation. They'd need more years than this legislation is going to happen. You were also talking about job creation, helping with budgets to create jobs. How? By reducing 1.41% of the budgets in relation to the year 2009, which is the year that you make a difference to that reduction? Function 32 is easy to locate, job promotion and labour market institutions. But if we go to function 32 for 2018 budgets, even with respect to 2017 budgets, there's a nominal cut, you're going to invest less in employment. Reduced job promotion by 1.5 million euros, it's easily proven by anyone listening to us. But in addition to this employment disaster, we have a special situation in relation to work insecurity. We live thanks to you under a sort of dictatorship of the precarious, because the qualitative evolution of employment is not much better than the existence of it itself. Since the start of the cycle's accist phase in the third quarter of 2017 there are 10,000 more employees in Galicia than in 2016, but only 11% of those people have indefinite contracts, while the remaining 89% have temporary contracts. You are condemning the population continuously, structurally, permanently, to a job that produces no expectations for the future, which does not allow people to plan their lives, which does not allow young people to exercise, if they want, a fatherhood or a responsible maternity because they don't know what will happen the next day with their jobs. Because you create the conditions of that insecurity, and so you can't live quietly, so you can't have future expectations in our country. That's why people emigrate! And what do you do, reduce spending even to nominal levels in function 32, it's inexplicable! Come here and explain why. Today, half the population of our country is already precarious. In Galicia, there are 238,000 employees who are subject to different contractual formulas of fixed duration, which already means, of course, a 28% rate of temporality. How will you make big plans for the future people who know your contract wins next month next week, the next six days, or have concatenated contracts, one after another. In order to live a half-year's work, a Greek worker needs an eleven contract concatenation. And we say a worker because the precarious one also has a woman's name, affecting the female population more sensitively. They're precarious, besides, the 122,000 people who work part-time, who would like to work full-time, but they can't. Or people who work full-time need to have a second job to be able to reach by the end of the month for wages counts, which are often of misery. It's also precarious for the 12,100 people who work as fixed discontinuances in sectors such as conservation or hospitality, and who also have difficulty completing their rents throughout the year. And let's not say, of course, the greatest precaution there is, that it is to have no work and to have as the only occupation to go from home to the Inem and the Inem to the house. When you add up all of them, the result is demolition. Half of the Welsh employees — more if they are women — are precarious, well subject to a 28% temporality rate, a 16% bias rate or a 15% unemployment rate. And the lack of work and precariousness are bad with many faces: those who seek work do not find it, those who have temporary low-wage work, those who work part-time unwanted, those who work as pockets and pockets, those who do false practices, and those who get paid for work, who here are people who have to say periodically that he has a job to pay. That's unacceptable and unsustainable in terms of the future. The deterioration of working conditions due to subcontracting, etc. Since 2009, we have also suffered an intense process of indebtedness. In 2008 the public debt in Galicia was EUR 3,954 million. Now, in the second quarter of 2017, it's 11,363; it's multiplied by three, 290%. In nine years we've been indebted to 7,409 million euros. In 2018, Junta is going to be indebted to 1,387 million euros, one part to pay the 1,075 of the debt of previous years that it wins in the exercise; and the other part, for an amount of 312 million euros, is to finance greater net indebtedness. You've masked your lack of deficit with the increase in a debt that's worth us more than just to pay for current expenditure, and it doesn't finance investment. Since 2009 the debt has increased by 7.400 million euros, while the investment has decreased by 1.3 billion euros by average annual. We owe ourselves to pay for current spending and not to invest in the capitalization of the country. It's a debt that grows in addition to the decisions of governments, and it's data that are overwhelming, that are amazing, for anyone who approaches them. We have fallen short of GDP and, of course, we have gone to debt to supply the lack of income from what we are going to look for in GDP. Since 2010 public spending has fallen victim to austerity, but despite this it increases, and much, public debt. And how do you explain this? Well, it's because of the decline in income. In Spain there has been a brutal drop in tax revenues as it did not happen in another country of the European Union. expressed as a percentage of wealth, tax revenues in Spain increased from 38% in 2009 to 32% in 2014. While in the middle of the European Union, in similar circumstances, they ranged from 41 to 40 percent. In this negative scenario, governments like theirs have made the situation worse by making the decision to disqualify higher incomes, capital incomes and business benefits. That is, who had the most, even during the crisis, to pay less; and here are the data on collection in evolution, for example, in relation to corporate tax. The Galician Union, which assumes the tax rebates it applies, at the same time does not take responsibility for the fall in income, with the consequent increase in the debt. Since 2009, these tax benefits have resulted in a cumulative fall of nearly 2,000 million euros. Here's the fundamental reason for indebtedness, because it's not funded with income and it's going to be the public debt. A smaller part of this drop in income was the government's responsibility. We are also talking about 11,600 million registered debt, to which we have to add 3,058 million euros in payment commitments derived from public-private partnership contracts, which also cover the government's own debt. So we went on to pay a debt equivalent to 19% to 24% of GDP. Having said clearly, as they did during the management of the fires, the Board does not make efficient debt management, but rather looks for formulae to hide it, but reality is there. In the economic framework that you offer for 2018 we have a threat of slowdown, and we don't understand what the position of triumphalism you've come up with now. It's worrying that you come here showing with satisfaction that there's going to be a growth of 2.5 percent when we're at 3.2%; so there's a slowdown, a regression in the increase -- yes, yes -- of nothing more and nothing less than 22% compared to 2017, and it's surprising that you're presenting it as something triumphal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's an explicit recognition, for its part, of the lack of consistency of the cycle's alcist phase, in which you're not intervening, they're not doing anything. And the fact that they're not doing anything doesn't say En Marea, says the Bank of Spain when it quantifys the effects of the so-called transitional factors of the recent evolution of the Spanish economy. 70% of the increase in German GDP is due to the decline in the price of oil, to the European Central Bank's expanding monetary policy, to the relaxation of fiscal policy, which had a positive impact of 2.2%. After you are dependent on nothing, the rest, which is only 30%. And what about the 2018 budget that comes to us here? Well, we've got a restrictive, dizzy budget. The resources available to the Greek society in the 2018 budgets are a clear demonstration of a neoliberal strategy to reduce public spending and the weight of the public in the economy. It is true — you know — that 2.9 % is growing and that the board will have 266 million euros more than in 2017, but only in nominal terms. Today, IPC is at 2.3%, and most likely in 2018 will be around 2%, so in real terms, the budget will only increase by 1%. A homogenized expenditure that in 2018 will be only 100 million higher than in 2017, but that will still be — and we return to the year you used comparison — 2,324 million euros below the actual run in 2009. Therefore, and for the sake of understanding, in 2018 the available resources will be 23% of the resources that the Board had in 2009. And here we are again asking the question that at first we were asking, why, if the level of GDP is already higher than in 2008, if we have the same level of wealth as before the crisis, we have an budget of 23% lower, when we know and everyone knows that budgets are used to redistribute income and wealth and that they must feed on that national wealth to share it, to make public spending policies that benefit the majority of society, to boost the economy, to boost employment, so that no one stays behind, so that everyone has equal opportunities? Where are you doing that? Where's 23% missing? Why aren't they more ambitious? Why don't you opt and why don't you aspire to use public resources to redistribute income and wealth and make everyone live something better? But you don't want any of that because you're the one who's looking to dismantle the welfare state. The cycle's peak phase is not being used to recover us from the 2009-2013 cuts. You're giving continuity to spending cuts in a new way. They're no longer nominal cuts in expenditure, but by reducing the weight of public spending, with some exception to what I'm referring to and to what I'm going to refer to. The figures show that in 2018 the budget increases by 2.9%, but nominal GDP is now growing by 4.3, and in the macroeconomic framework of the Union by 2018 to Union estimates an increase of 4%. This is the logic of the new stage of the cuts, that the spending will grow less than the gross domestic product, and so, year after year, it will accumulate a gradual but sustained cut in time, which is less visible but equally perverse. There's an example that everyone will understand, for example, with pensions. Pensions have formally increased by 0.25%. Did the pensions go up? No, they didn't, they're really lower because inflation is at 2%. Therefore, pensioners suffered a loss of purchasing power by 1.75%. This is what happens today with the budgets of the Galician Union. You say they rise, but in relation to the price, not only the increase in the IPC, but the increase in the wealth itself, we are losing a relative weight in relation to the national wealth. We don't use budgets to redistribute, so that it reaches everyone, so that means social injustice that we cannot afford. You were talking about social rights, he literally said, "Strengthening public health." Yes, strengthening public health with 398 million euros less than in 2009. With the same level of wealth, almost 400 million euros less. "Consolidate a Trilingual Public Education" with 436 million less than in 2009. Yes, yes. Promoting access to housing, dropping 71% of the money invested in housing since 2009; that's right, while there are still people who are defeated day after day and year after year. "Founding basic culture" will be a base without public support, because 57% have been reduced since 2009. "Encourage Galicia's own language." First they castellanize them in teaching, and then they glew them out; it was better to be a Welsh education, so they would also save in budgets. And yet they save -- so much they save in linguistic normalization! -- 69% less than in 2009. "Make a rural environment," you said, "a great opportunity." Since 2009, 217 million euros less for the rural environment. In addition, it is particularly bloody here that in function 55 in the 2018 budgets, in relation to 2017, there is a nominal reduction of actions and appreciation of the rural environment of EUR 2.8 million, therefore, little opportunity for the rural environment, of which up to now you have not been able to avoid their abandonment, all of which, of course, because of their disloyalty and their inability to manage. To increase competitiveness in fishing — I say — with 50% less expenditure than in the 2009 budget. To Spain's head in the investor effort to promote competitiveness, innovation and development; reducing, of course, also budgeting since 2009 by 33%. But besides here is also one of those that has a nominal cut, "cut" with all the letters, which everyone understands. Function 53. Soil promotion for economic activities, EUR 11.4 million less than last year. Function 73. Industry. Reduction of 13 million euros, 22% less than in 2017, without any problems. You compare with each other and you'll see this reduction, all these millions of euros. Complete Galician infrastructures. How? With a 50% reduction in investments compared to 2009, with 333 million euros less? And, of course, the infrastructure will not be to complete the railway infrastructure, because Fomento has just given a new slap to the face of Feijóo saying "no" to the northwest corridor, I need to get the Greek goods to Europe and therefore make the economy more competitive, just like our most competitive ports. He says they have confidence and they have credibility. No, look, trust and credibility have burned, and not only with the fires; these budgets also burn. We have a budget with a few cuts that question the Government's speech. As I said, on the one hand, a reduction in relative weight, a loss of weight in relation to the wealth produced, and on the other hand, an express, nominal reduction in the functions that I have just commented on. Employment promotion, function 32, one million euros less. The promotion of the soil already mentioned, that of the rural environment and that of industry. What are the priorities of the Galician Union, Mr. Martínez? The ones you announced here, with these nominal cuts in relation to 2017? How can they nominally reduce employment policies, industry policies, rural policies? Get up here, take the functions I'm commenting on and say it's not true. Come here and compare them with 2017. There's no problem, in the replica you can do it that you have unlimited time besides; so you can search them wherever you want. A budget which also freezes public salaries. The big prejudiced, the public sector workers, who had during the crisis to see their wages reduced, will not be able to recover the purchasing power either with the budgets of 2018, will only be able to keep it frozen, because in 2017 there was a 1% salary raise, with an inflation of 2.3%, we know what the result is. It also continues the fiscal counter-reform against most of them. The 2018 budget, in our opinion, is another step in fiscal counter-reform. It lowers the contribution that you expect from direct taxes, that they increase according to the level of people's wealth, and rise the indirect ones, essentially the VlV, which penalises most those who have less. Those are your forecasts: collect taxes that are linear to everyone. The bread, which costs everyone, the rich and the poor, is from where you are financed, instead of financing the wealth where you exist, depending on the progressiveity that you had to have the taxes that make up wealth. And no, they're not doing it because they prefer to do it differently, charging on those who can't. It's redistributing the tax burden against most, because the tax rebates and profits favor those that have the most, especially because tax figures lose weight, and they are the ones that record wealth and wealth. I'm going to finish. What's the alternative to En Marea? Then I'll mention, in the next intervention, the debt and what you've done with the Autonomic Liquidity Fund. We jumped an alternative model. We think these budgets are disappointing, they're restrictive, they're mediocre, they're antisocial, they're unfair, and that's why we don't have to support them and we have to ask for their return. We believe in an inclusive growth model, that does not leave anyone out and therefore be more fair and more solid, that bets for an improved activity in sectors of more value added, especially with greater weight in industrial branches; that generates stable work and with rights as a standard and not as an exception, with decent wages on which the welfare state can be sustained through contributions, taxes and contributions. We want different budgets, these aren't worth them. We want some people to be confident, to generate hopes that young people will be able to return to what is emigrated, and that the people who live here, who don't emigrate and don't leave, will have confidence in the future, something that these budgets are not doing. We want the wealth shown in GDP to move to people. We don't value the wealth of GDP if it doesn't move to people. We want wealth for people, so that everyone has equal opportunities. We think we have the right to live better, to have stable jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u19	...with decent wages as standard. We want to reduce poverty and inequality. We believe that we all have the right to have a network of public protection that also, of course, ends with social defeat and literal defiance or energy poverty. We believe that we have the right to a fair country and that we deserve other budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u20	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Intervention by the Galician Councillor, Mr. Farmer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u21	You can't, ma'am, you're our guest, you can't address anyone. Please, the House's services help that lady get out of... help her, help her, please, help her... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can't address anyone. Ma'am, you can't address anyone. Help him, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] She's already helping that lady. Help Parliament's worker out already. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Counselor, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u22	Thank you again, Mr. President. As always — and this is the third time I have to talk about this whole debate — it is nice to see the different positions that each one defends in a legitimate way. I think the tone is getting better and better, except for a few exceptions. I suppose you'll also be in the personal matter. All groups know that I tend to explain myself in a general way. Please don't look at a disauthorization of the multiple things that have been advanced by each of you, the rapporteurs in this case, because the most important thing I detect in each of the three interventions was the theme of the model of society, of the economic model. In view of this, the one who speaks to them, the Government that represents -- let me tell you in a very clear and also very plain way -- does not believe in the theory of original sin, we have nothing to hide. I think that so legitimate is the model that we defend ourselves as you do. But, however, the legitimacy of the votes I think it places everyone on their side. So I'm not willing to assume certain qualifications that were introduced here, and I'm going to try to run away from them. I think it's time to acknowledge that at this stage that starts early in 2009, in the second quarter, it's a lot of what we've done. There was realism, there was rigor, there was evil that weighed them, and there were proposed actions. And obviously, everyone who acts has a chance of being wrong, which I'm sure is the one who does nothing, and this government has done a lot in these eight and a half years. But at the same time, I must express — and so we always do — the reformist character of this government, which is born of non-conformism. In fact, we realize that there are a lot of things left to do because it's been a lot of what you've lived in Spain and Galicia from 2008 to 2014 at the end, if you talk in more aggregate terms. He's begun to change the situation ever since. It's this realism, this know how to do our part too, but also non-conformism, which leads us to have the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan. As always, the references made by the opposition to the Strategic Plan were very brief. They do not understand what it means to combine the present and the future with discretion. And they don't understand it because they're not used to planning. So they're used to it is at a certain level of driving that has nothing to do with this government. What they did introduce was a new stage to which we called healthy growth. Let's go fourth. So far what we had was that they denied the economic crisis, they didn't know how to manage it in the period when they had the responsibility of government, the second stage. They didn't recognize recovery, third phase. And now, as all actors already recognize that to some extent, to some extent, there is a better economic recovery linked to the macro issue, it turns out that they deny the effects on people. I'll also refer to this within a moment, because I think the situation deserves the most objective analysis on my part. Obviously, everyone talks from a certain perspective, which has nothing to match with other groups in any way, as they have been exposed. What is clear also, and nobody should hide from it, is our choice for fiscal consolidation, in which next year we will be in a technical way, where the deficit, debt, the rule, the average payment period, has a fundamental impact on what a society that has the viability of the future. But the most important thing is, and indeed I should like to draw attention to some of the speeches that some speakers have made on this subject, is that if we go in — as everything indicates — in technical fiscal consolidation, some parameters such as debt — since we have talked about so much here — and the public deficit already loses its concept. We've become dependent on ourselves, and there are some people who still don't know what public debt means. As well as the subject of the expenditure rule. With regard to the spending rule, indeed, this government has also stated that it does not coincide with its current exact formulation, but rather as a medium-term discipline for any government, in order not to try to return to certain pre-trial situations — it is said very clearly budget 2008 and 2009 — because some of the people who spoke in this forum are still unaware that the budget consists of three phases. A first phase that is the elaboration. A second which is what we have approved in this Parliament. And a third is liquidation. And from the liquidation, both in 2008 and in 2009, they say that the figures for 2008 and above all in 2009, with 600 million and 1,600 million respectively, were painted. So any comparison that is made in the middle stage of what an budget means is to continue without knowing what this is about the budget. It's so sad, so clear. The model option chosen by this government was a situation where we tried to walk in two directions out. And out for us, obviously, like a public institution, out and for us are the families, for us they are the different entrepreneurs that there are, for us they are also the autonomous communities, for us it is also the common external sector. What we're trying to transmit was certainty, a serious, reliable work, and it's already called stability. And inside. It is — in a more or less fortunate way — that in the different interventions of the interlocutors, both the one who speaks to them and the members of the Business Council, we try to move that seriousness translates, even this year 2018, in a very accelerated way, in what can really mean the cornerstone, which is the concept of gross saving or even primary saving. That fall of interest what you will say is that, indeed, the public debt is levelled, that it is well structured and that, therefore, at this time our autonomous community will present in 2018 an average type of interest which is close to 1.5%, that any company of a given complexity would want to have for itself, and that puts us in the lowest, practically, parameter of the autonomous communities. But even more, that situation still has a propensity not as fast as 2018 for the year 2019. So this fall and this conceptual importance, which we sometimes forget, is also very nice to hear from this rostrum. From when we discussed the 2017 budget, now that we do it from 2018, we finally learned what net debt is, we finally learned what is the principle of budget integrity, which collects all movements. Although it is true that the quantification that has been made was totally wrong, totally wrong once again, because the net debt that grows is 193 million euros, to which you have to add the 85 million euros that, in terms of accounting, work as an adjustment, which is proof more than palpable the 85 million euros that were painted in the 2008 budget and above all in 2009, as just collected. I'm also very glad that at least all of you and each of you have made a reference with a different temporal size to what the macro frame really means, because that's where there are estimates that are two things. An approximation to the reality we have, as we think it will be next year, but above all I like to spray, as one of the spokespersons did, on the subject of the macro painting in a way very often, that I cannot agree enough. How are we really? At the macro level, really, let me tell you that there's a very important IT that we forget again. In fact, in April we exceeded the level of wealth we had in 2008, that's undeniable, but what's also undeniable, using a colloquial expression, is that in the situation we have in 2017 the water didn't go through the same mill, it's another situation, and above all it has a very important impact, as I will try to detail. On the question of the labour market and on the subject of emigration, as we said, I will not reject any kind of debate, if it is true that my knowledge does not reach every single subject. First tape. We exceeded the level of wealth we had in 2008. It's more, this year, also in nominal terms, we're going to exceed 60 billion euros. That's another very important gesture within what our economy is. But it is more, that GDP also from our autonomous community, year 2015, year 2016, year 2017, year 2018, if we compare it with what is happening in Europe and Spain, begins to recover the situation that has actually been lost in what were the terrible years of the crisis, 2008-2014 including. We don't forget what happened here, a deep crisis that happened in Spain and Galicia. And let us not forget that since 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 our relative position is gaining weight both with regard to Spain and with regard to the European Union. Let's not play with the numbers by comparing it to 2008, looking at periods that do not detect the trend change that is taking place. Moreover, sometimes I have also heard that the great relationship is not so much the relationship we have established with the population in general. It's a fair comparison index to measure us with certain situations, obviously, it's usually the usual, we're not going to forget it, but in addition, and in a very clear way, if we correlate GDP with the active population, which is how you should measure GDP, because since you've heard me on many occasions, sometimes we forget how easy it is in economics, that is to relate GDP, that is, the value of goods and services produced for a year, to people who are likely to get to this type of property. For if we do so, it turns out that in 2017 we will come into our relationship as 95% of Spanish, being the second community, in a way far away from what happens in the rest, the third, and we will no longer tell the 17, only before us the Basque Country, that what we are telling us is that our exit from the crisis is a much more productive way than the one that is taking place in the rest of autonomous communities, and on average in Spain. That's a very strong value in itself, which I'll also try to relate to the topic of the labour market. Because, recognizing in advance that there's a lot to do in the labour market, you're forgetting how much has changed since 2015. In no way can we be satisfied with the level we currently have, but everything indicates in terms of more employment, less unemployment; in terms of better qualification, in a way a little less intense than we all would like; in the subject of precariousness and so on, practically all the indicators of medium terms are positive, as well as in the end of salary. That's what I'm going to mean in a moment. As for the macroeconomic framework as such, I think it reflects a very correct, very prudent reality. It was also said here that not everything is Catalonia. Of course, not everything is Catalonia, but, above all, today uncertainty is Catalonia; a very clear uncertainty that tells us is that it's about 0.3 tenths to 0.5 tenths -- I don't even even put myself in the fifth tenth. It's also true that certain realities still exist around us, but where you look at some weakness, we look at strength. Because, I repeat again, a society like ours, with a structure and even a propensity to saving and consumption that has also been introduced here, has a certain behavior, relatively like our mountains, so it refers to the rise in domestic demand. That's undeniable. We need as a society to reach out to external demand. We are the second community that presents better absolute terms and relationships always on the commercial balance. And even where we look at a negative about the rest of autonomous communities, the only thing he's telling us is how much we can grow. It's not a demerit in itself, it's also a way of dealing with our performance in the coming years. We have a lot to gain in that way, and that's where our performances will go. So we're in an increasingly modern society, where we're creating jobs in a positive way. Let's not disagree. When we approved the strategic plan and marked an occupation horizon that would be between 80,000 and 100,000, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, that would give us an average of about 15,000 and some jobs, every year we've taken, 2015, 2016, 2017, and presumably 2018, we'll be at the top, to create at the end of the period between those 80,000 and 100,000, and just as we're going, the normal thing is that we're even going over, prudently, what are the 100,000. We don't get so upset running what that means, as it means to have at the moment, in the third quarter, a rate of 14.5% and also what it means is moving forward that at the end of next year we'll probably be under 13% -- thirteen percent -- three percent -- in the last quarter, and that's very important. Let us also not forget that when we talk here about the slowdown in the economy of Greece, the only thing we are here is, by caution, impacting what means a situation of total instability that does not depend on this autonomous community, but weak favor would be if we did not recognize what was happening, with a very serious impact on Catalan society. As well, and yet, not to relate this to the world of the first circle we have. We're saying that the Greek economy will grow more than the Spanish economy in medium terms. We are saying that in spite of this 2.5 correction we have made right now, because of this situation — as I say to you — but not only, what we are saying is that we will continue to grow far above what the euro area does and what neighbouring countries do. This means that, once again, we will gain relative position in terms of the means of these countries. Let's not disagree, we're comparing ourselves to the most advanced world! As the tendency that we always have to talk about negatives in Galicia, and we do not realize, for example, that with the latest data that can be contrasted — not so interested in doing so — when we compare the level of per capita wealth we have in Galicia, it turns out that if we compare it to any country in the world, from 195 or 196 countries in the world, we are in the first 31 and rising. It's just that we sometimes forget about the reality of what that means. And being above us five or six countries that, curiously, have a size as a much lower economy than you can have right now, in absolute terms, the Galician. We don't want to run so fast, really! what we are as a society. We are a very advanced society, recognizing also humbly that we have much to do. Again, I don't know if it's because of imperience, whether it's because of wickedness or because it's because it's because we're sucking, when we're talking about 2018 budgets, which if they're expansive, not expansive, it turns out that we're still unheard of. I think it's because of imperience, I don't go there that there's so much mistake, to confuse, my God!, first of all, the size of the budget; secondly, the non-financial expenditure; and thirdly, what is the primary expenditure, which is the true capacity that has a government. As I have already explained in committee, 2.9 % of what is really telling us, if we take account of the interest in debt, with that fall of 65, is not the 266 million euros that grow, it is the 331 that we really have to leave, at least, in order to manage the budget. That means we have about 3.8% or 3.9%, which is identical to 4% in nominal terms of what we're talking about. As when you get up here with the IPC and place the IPC at 2%. I particularly think it's a completely wrong calculation. Our studies tell us that the IPC is over 1 right now, but suppose -- as you said here in such a categorical way -- that it's going to be in 2% next year, it seems a little too risky. As I also find it very risky when we only get to the IPC, and not to the GDP deflator, when we're talking about the macroeconomic picture and in an interested way we're starting to mix the butter with the merlins, by using a plateau expression, which also exists the Meseta. So, I think it's a weak favor that we do if we don't transfer a certain level of expertise when we make up the budget. That's what I'm talking about, too. In a clear way, there was just ahead of here too, again, not to understand what is a ceiling of expenditure, which we are exhausted at this time, which is a law that has passed the Parliament of Galicia; which is the conformation of the budget, which is not exhausted in itself. And even in the act that we're going to do in a few days, approving certain issues, because there are finalist funds that were not known at the time and that will not prevent the budget from increasing. That's budgetary technique, that's budgetary legality. I am referring exclusively to this, and because I am interested in this point, because one of the spokespersons has been reverberated in the field of employment. As far as employment is concerned, when we build the expenditure ceiling, there was an understanding of what finalist funds are. Today the final funds we know... because after July comes August, September, October, November... It's not over here, it's not over, and there's 18 million more. At the same time, in a prudent way, what do you want, that we budget and consume the roof of spending other games or the normal thing is that you grow up for...? It's so simple the reasoning that we're going!, it's scandalous! It's scandalous, especially when we have against another of the monothemes, which is the subject of public debt. [[Applause]] Another of the monothemes, that of the public debt! And again we're incuring certain issues that I don't know if they're serious anymore, if we're really working as professional as we can. We all know... actually, I'm not going to name him, if he was President A, President B, President C, I don't think he's deduced from my words. I, who are so vehemently speaking, don't like those questions. But let's go over there, see if I can transmit some certainty. Let's see if I can. In 2008, there were nearly 4,000 million. The fiscal consolidation process, which was one of the maximum consequences that we will have, in my view, in 2018, is telling us that, about the end of the whole period, Galicia's debt will settle in absolute terms around 11,500. Once again you have to check the En Marea spokesman that quarter data cannot be used, you have to wait at the end of the year. There are certain communications, or there are certain treasury operations that all you have to say to you is that you dominate the question so that our suppliers are able to collect in time, as virtually no community is doing. That's called dominating the treasury, that's called waiting for a moment for the fourth quarter's data, where you'll know the true science we're talking about. It is also normal that the debt we had to 18.6 of GDP last year is at best 18.5 % at the end of this year, which is the first to fall. But what's more important, as I told you, is that our debt will basically settle in absolute terms, starting next year, at 11.500 million euros. But that's what, if you compare it to the previous one, it's 7,500, and if you keep in mind that today these famous liquidations of the year 2008 and 2009, we already have today nearly 1,100 million euros as a result of the famous millions that were painted in those years, and we will have to reach 2,200. And when they end, of that total of 11,500, that difference of 7,500, 2,200 cannot be found in this government. It's a purely simple matter of mathematics. You don't even have to go to college to find out about these kinds of issues! I repeat, therefore, that I do not like some of the issues I have just said, because I tell you, I don't know if it really is imperious — that I would miss myself in representatives as legitimized as each one of you is — or if it is bad faith, in the introduction that they are making to all these parameters. And, of course, in public debt, in any parameter in the Autonomous Community of Galicia compared to any community, we have a relationship that is perfectly assumed in size, structure and what it is signifying for public buildings, but perfectly defined and assumed. So something we're going to have to be doing right now when we have almost EUR 4 billion less than the rest of autonomous communities if we behave in medium terms like them, which means more than two thousand euros per inhabitant, which are the ones that in Galicia will have, and are in principle also a generational balance. Let us not now make decisions — since we may not make them — to hypothesize what the future of our young must be, to pay in their day what we have done right now, when we have a real different choice. So I can't match you in the appreciation you've made on the subject of debt. Taxation. Of course, here there is a completely different model than taxation between each other. I repeat again, I do not recognize any original sin. In each of the models that have been, and even what we will discuss in the afternoon, what is detected is a propensity for each of the groups to which tax capacity can be exhausted. It's just that he's a real... I don't know, but... without being ready, I think they're applying Robin Hood's theory. They're applying all of you to Robin Hood's theory: We stole the rich to give to the poor. But it has to happen to me, that I do know what I'm going to do with things. Wouldn't it be much easier than, like it's happening in the economy in general, we're leaving this kind of snarling? Even in the proposals that, as we will see in the afternoon, one of you, who fill your mouth here by talking about what is the option for direct or indirect taxation, it turns out that several of the figures that will be proposed and that we will discuss in the afternoon have a propensity to transfer to citizens much larger than what is being said. And truly, as far as you're affecting yourself, if we were to listen to them in the positions and actions they propose, it turns out that we would actually be focusing on average and low incomes to deny the possibility they have since 2016 of a very clear increase in what their income is available. How can we rejoice here, when we sometimes talk about what zero taxes mean in rural areas, if today we have nearly 21,000 transactions? Let's wait a little while to see how we're perfecting some of these instruments. [[Applause]] How can one call to a certain rejoicing what the tax of succession means, my God!Is that what you're talking about? Taxation of successions in which it turns out that there are practically 165,000 Greeks today who have benefited from this situation. Which means keeping the family heritage intact. Which means that what your parents — basically your parents — were able to achieve, and paying their taxes, kept a certain level of unity. What it means to take advantage of our civil right, as I also said last year, and we're producing the departures and successor pacts, the differential degree that this autonomous community has, which means that we're also putting them into value and generating wealth. If we don't understand this, we're not understanding the basics of Galicia's social reality. I repeat again, 165,000 people today have benefited from this topic. Another topic that has also been introduced, which is the subject of occupation and unemployment. It's just that I'm already worried about, I'm already worried about some Dickensian propensity that some people have to talk about, when it's a subject of similar complexity, but of similar wealth, that I can't agree with many. I still maintain that employment matters, and their correlation to unemployment, are a priority for this government. It's been since the first day and it's still because there's a lot to be done. But it is undeniable that in 2015, when the recovery begins, in 2016 there was an increase of 42,000 new jobs. They say things in a consistent manner. At this point, at the time of 2016, we took 14,560 in what was the third quarter. And we'll be able to almost reach 60,000 new jobs this year, but we're still going on. Like when we talk about unemployment, and we have the unemployment rate where we have it. But also in registered unemployment, with 185,903 people, each account, as you won't count! How are you not going to tell, though it's the least month we've had since the year 2009? And it's not worth this whole thing. As it doesn't stand up when I say we're going out in a little way, as we are in Galicia, and also in an orderly way, as is the crisis, and it turns out that about average wages no one goes up here to tell it. Of course, we're still relatively below the Spanish average, but we've been growing, slowly, by 3.8% in the last few years, and it turns out that the Spanish average, which is so much defended for occupation parameters, turns out to be 0.5%. Something we'll be doing right. Is that the only thing we should stay with, and rejoice in this situation? No way, but I think it's undeniable. As is undeniable, when it comes to precariousness and comparing indefinite recruitment to time, it turns out that we have 73.8% and Spain 73.9% in indefinite recruitment. But it turns out that it is not said here — as we are affected by the economic history of Spain and Galicia — that in full goodness, with certain questions and labour reforms that have not been carried out, it turns out that in Galicia we had 69.6% indefinite. So, what's the criticism? What do you want, going back to 69.6% or staying and improving 73.8%? I suppose it will be better at 73,8 % from the point of view of bias. [[Applause]] Like when we talk about part-time and full-time recruitment. Of course, there is a partial contract that is not desired by the people who have these types of contracts! But why is it not said that the behaviour of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the fifth best — practically the best — that is in Spain? But where do we live then? Or are we here an island in the middle of the Atlantic, and what is it? For some things yes, especially for our mental development. Again, the subject of emigration. Another subject on which we are — I think in the wrong way — always fading. But don't worry, this one who talks to them at least, and almost all the government, we're not afraid to talk about these issues. In both 2015 and 2016, fundamental data deny some of the exhibitions that have been made. In particular, and on the whole, Galicia is the autonomous community with a lower rate of emigration. That's irrebatable, irrebatable. Year 2015, 1.12; year 2016, 0.82. Spain 1,96 no 2015; 1,45 no 2016. That's undeniable. From there on, how are we acting with the rest of the foreigner? Turns out we're winning 4,949 people. How are we in general? We've won 3,000 people. But no, we're still wrong about it. Boys. Don't manipulate, please. Between 16 and 34 years old — I suppose these will be the boys, right? — it turns out we've won 143 inhabitants. We're good. Let's center it a little more, in the youth population. Between 16 and 24 years old or so, it's the denomination given by the INE: juvenile population. And it turns out that between 14 and 24 years we've earned 957 inhabitants. Well, nothing, we're still going wrong, what we're gonna do to him! If we measured it between 16 and 34 years of age, it turns out that last year we had +143 inhabitants. Yes, there's a negative frame, ranging from 25 to 44 years. How to deny this! But we are recovering population via emigration, also from other autonomous communities, in net terms. And he's mostly entering for youth. That's good as a society, let's not deny the biggest, which is what's happening. Why is it so difficult to agree on what emigration is meant by a general nature and what is the emigration of young people? Public employment. Here too I don't know if... I understand that everyone has their way of thinking, but again we play with the data. There are official data for the year 2008, 2009, and so on until this first January 2017. And also in the middle of the year, they'll come out, because official data from the Ministry of Business are always extracted twice a year. But what we can't do is take the pictures when they fit us, and only until then... it's good to use them normally, because the same paintings -- so I also said at the beginning of my intervention that the only way to be wrong is to do nothing -- they also sometimes take certain calls that are telling us that in 2009, 2010, 2011, there were certain mistakes, especially because the forces that were being counted on in education were duplicated. Oh, that's what we have to tell! That is, at this time, and since the first of January 2017, in the paintings of the Galician Union in broad terms, not only of the autonomous administration, both in health care and social services, and in education, as in Justice, it turns out that we have more people working, more effective, than there were in the best years of kindness, but we keep saying no! Of course, there is a small minority — perhaps for some people it is not so small — in education, but it turns out that in education, however, we continue to have the best relative position of any autonomous community in Spain. But nothing, we're still influencing around. We continue to speak to unsuspected limits of what is the theme of temporality. But if we have high temporality, it's because of certain decisions that don't depend on this autonomous government. We have stated that we have always exhausted our capacity for convening and developing OPE. When OPE has not been criticised here since 2009, with all the restrictions that have been in place, we have more than 11,300 squares that have been convened, developed and resolved as the case may be. And keep saying! And this is what it causes? It calls for the Autonomous Community of Galicia to be the least interminent community in relation to any other community in Spain in medium terms. And why? Because we have repeatedly made oppositions and because at the same time we have kept our templates stable. That's our situation. And I'm very grateful to the unions, less than one, because they're able to confront us with their ideas and agree that by 2020 we have at least 7% of the interim and we are able to get at least 14,750 places to offer. That's what's important, where we're going to be. Because we do have the machinery sufficiently fattened to, always according to the unions—that they do know, sometimes where we are wrong— to reach that year 2020 below 7%, and if it's possible of 6%, that again would be a technical interintence, because you all need to know that the selection processes as complicated as the public function in general, within Galicia, are going on one year over another in a propensity of about a year like something since it is convened until the exams are done and everything is solved. So, as there is a technical fiscal consolidation, that would also, practically, be a full technical employment in the public sector. That's the situation where we are, and that's why we're the ones who are now going to go over the 3,400 offered squares in 2017, as we're going to do in very little, and we're going to approve the last plan we're going to have in terms of health and general administration, as you know, and the same for next year. Always hand to hand with the unions. But what we cannot come here to say is that, because of the lack of rigor and realism, we cannot express two things: in wage matters we have the caution, in the 2018 budget, to reserve 2% of the salary mass and the cost of chapter I in general. But there is an act of prudence. On the one hand, we're saying that the minimum 1.5 % of what has been talked about at the general level, of a basic nature, is going to happen. We play that, and even more. In the differential of what we're talking about, whether it's correlated with GDP or correlated with another kind of magnitude, etc., we play that. Why? Because we believe that it is normal to preach with what we always say, which is the theme of wages. On the subject of wages, if there is a recovery of the common of around 2% — both as little as percent — it would be a great one, because at this time the Autonomous Community of Galicia can withstand this situation by the way things were done before. So this is our situation. I believe that it is a good thing in itself that we have had caution about public employment in the area of wages. But he's also telling us that the Autonomous Community of Galicia again, in a biunevocal relationship with the different unions, but he's playing with what we have in common and general, he's not willing to play in certain group-type increments for many meanings whatsoever. I think it's much more what we have in common than what makes us different, and for that we're not. In order not to extend too much, I would, lastly, like another of the great debates that took place here, which was that fourth phase of healthy growth, which we interpret as being stable from the coming year, which is the denial that is made of the effects of economic growth on people's well-being. If we do, we'll realize that as of 2014, quarter by quarter, Galicia's economy has been improving. Any parameter we make right now with regard to health... is that even... how you play with the figures! when they say that the 2009 budget — even without correcting the effects, as I said, of these 1,600 million euros — turns out that today the health budget is greater than it was in 2009. When we talk about education and compare the year 2009 with the year 2018 — so I ask them a little more expertise when comparing numbers — in educational matters, we have a small negative differential between 2009 and 2018. It turns out that we take account of the salaries of staff members, the 5% that had been lost, and given the high propensity of consumption in wages and business costs that education in Galicia has, we would already be positive. When we compare social services, we're talking about seven hundred thirty-million euros -- I think I remember -- compared to five hundred and something, and it's still talking. When we talk about justice, it turns out that we keep talking, when we have about 40 million euros more a year than there were then. By the way, with more staff paintings, about 200 people. Why doesn't all this come into play? Why isn't it worth it? Of course there was an impact!, especially on the investment parameter. On approved investment, which was liquidated, not by chance, not by chance! So they don't manipulate these issues. And they don't manipulate, please, when you look at the indicators that people are sensing. As I told them earlier, how will it not be perceived in people if they have work or have it not in relation to the situation that existed in 2015? If we've already taken over 72,000 people who found a job! How can you not perceive it? How are you not going to perceive it when we look at the homes it turns out that at once... are we in the best place? No way we can be in the best! But as EPA says in the third quarter, it turns out we have 10,400 homes that don't have all their members in unemployment. And we're walking slowly. Of course there's a lot left to do! But I think it's doing pretty well. As when you look at consumption, and consumption has very important recovery parameters. And who does it consume? The families. And when? When they have, or they have an expectation to have. And we are presenting in consumption ratios that approach and far exceed the average of the autonomous communities in Spain. As well as when we look at other of these -- and since there's been data three years ago -- on the subject of mortgage launches. And when we look at the size we have today, it's immensely lower than there was. I suppose it'll be for something, I suppose something is being noticed by these people. I suppose it will be for something when the trust of the entrepreneurs is at this moment at more than 20 points above what was at the time given the crisis. I suppose the expectations that entrepreneurs have — which they usually analyze to have their business — will respond to something. I suppose there will be something when we compare -- as we said before -- health, and we've already taken nearly EUR 1 billion over the last four years, where is education, where are the social services -- what's going on? That's the income, and obviously the income that any administration has — the Joint — what it's telling us is that there's economic recovery, if not how we're going to enter more and more? How hard is it to understand? So in my second intervention, maybe I'll answer more often some of the issues that you haven't given me at the moment, questions that someone of you has called up. I'm also looking, as far as possible, at trying to maintain a certain level of coherence. And also a certain level of coherence when you talk about asking or not asking for forgiveness for what self-financing means, what the model is, when it works... we always say it, I don't think you have to ask for forgiveness or not forgive. What we've always said is that current self-financing is the result of a multilateral, not bilateral relationship. That's what this Government refuses. Item one: Never forget that the relationship here is of a multilateral rather than a bilateral nature. And it doesn't even matter that much about the result, but it's a question that at least we're not equal to anyone and we have our position, even to be wrong. Theme number two: we've always said that we have to say that we have people here, and that leads us to tell the services that these people receive. That means equality, and equality to the extreme. And the current parameters do not collect in their adjusted population condition some of the groups in which Galicia does present a differential with respect to any other autonomous community, such as those over 65, and above all the propensity of the 85-year-olds with the influence it has. Like some of the floral games that are being played by some autonomous community also regarding dispersion, as we know today. Or also the explicit recognition of certain issues that I think we're going to deal with in the afternoon, some proposal for an imaginary increase of what the CFI is about the parameter we're giving ourselves right now. When the FCI size definition parameter spins right now -- we like it or we don't like it, another thing is that we're going to have the biggest -- about a percentage of what a central government investment is. So we must not lose the situation. We all know that the expert group's report has already been presented in terms of self-financing. It presents certain issues which in principle can benefit this autonomous community, but it also opens up certain risks. The current stage at which we find ourselves is in the debate before what will be the most political resolution of this funding, with a time horizon that we suppose will be in the first quarter of next year, but before what is activated is the working group of experts — but experts from each community, in this case in a direct way — within what is the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council. There we are, and we're playing a lot. The House's groups will be sufficiently informed of our position, of course, and where the shots on this issue are going, knowing that everything can be accelerated. I think we should all have enough intellectual and personal rest, too. You can speed up in the first quarter or quarter of next year. But, as always, we are talking about people, and we are talking about rigour. And we're looking to have a certain level and control over each of the issues that bring us here to answer each one of you. If among all of us, with an air of normality, recognizing that we have greatly improved but there is much to be done in the different areas, I think we can all go from here a little happier to leave those who happen to us a little more dignified society. That's what we're dedicated to, at least this one that speaks to them, on behalf of the government that represents. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u23	Thank you, Counselor. Non-amendant group. [[Pause.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group, as it did not present amendments to the whole, logically we won't have much time to intervene. In this debate, it is clear that the main role lies between the opposition's proposals and the defence of the budgets that the adviser makes. However, if I think it is appropriate for the majority group to make some reflections, though first of all it is necessary to congratulate the team of the adviser, in general to the Board, and particularly to the advisor, as we did in the Commission, because within a period of less than a year he presented two draft budget laws in this House; in February, what we approved for the year 2017; and now, by date, 2018. Two laws of tax measures accompanying the budget laws. And also, in the middle of the summer, he introduced the Law of impulse to economic growth and reinforcement of social expenditure, which was really a significant change in budget laws. Five laws on budgetary matters in less than a year demonstrate working capacity, but they also show the importance of political stability, which translates in this case into security and stability for economic agents, especially in relation to fiscal policies. Obviously — as we have also done in committee — this is a proper budget for us, which focuses on priorities in a context of GDP growth and on the increase in expenditure, mainly in social expenditure, to alleviate the effects that the crisis has left between us; to boost investment, particularly what favours the most productive sectors; and, in addition, to us, it is very important to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. Certainly, this effort has translated — today data from the Gini index — into which Galicia is more equal after the crisis than the European Union average, and far from the Spanish average. The Gini index data — the last known ones from 2015 — gives Galicia the 0.29; Spain the 0.35; and the European Union the 0.31. The bigger the index, the more inequality reflects. Therefore, it is essential for us to remain far from the Spanish and European media with regard to equality, because equality is indeed a value that cohesions society and makes things generally better for all families. We agree very much with some of the priorities. The expenditure ceiling is exhausted; EUR 9.487 million in non-financial expenditure. That means it's 1,100 million euros more than in 2014, 265 more than last year. Chapters I and VIII are growing to 3.7, when real GDP growth forecast is 2.5. This is also based on growth in the economy and based on the external sector, but also on the good behavior of consumption and investment. In this way, we take advantage of the fact that Galicia is the autonomous community in which, despite all the aggressors we have heard during the crisis, GDP per capita has increased. Since 2000, where Galicia was in the last position in terms of GDP per capita of all Spanish communities, today it is in the tenth, and two posts have been in place since 2008. This therefore reflects a growth in GDP per capita of 9.1 — a good behaviour, therefore — and economic transformation. And it's better when we know that the available income is 92.5 on the Spanish average. Because it means that, in addition to improving the development of the Greek economy, not only is that, but we also have greater capacity for spending as a result of redistribution. All of this in an inflation context from which the last data we know is 1.5, because it's said that if the budget grows more or less than nominal GDP. When nominal GDP is said to increase by 5 because you think there's going to be inflation rates of 3%, which is what was in January -- and we've been talking about this several times in Commission 3a, and then again, who's right was the Government, with rates, I insist, of inflation that are in October at 1.5 -- it means that, of course, budgets, even in the global expenditure figures, have an expansive component that is reinforced when the tax burden of many families is lifted, particularly those of the lowest incomes. The second reason for praising these accounts is that the primary savings for current operations is EUR 1,015 million. In other words, current income makes it possible to finance investments for EUR 1,015 million. If we take into account that there are 570 capital revenues, that means that, as the economic memory says, 1,000 primary savings are basically equivalent to 1,000 capital formation. Which means that we are already practically in the process of ending the fiscal consolidation process. And for us that is certainly very relevant too. Social expenditure increases, investment increases — 6.5 % compared to 2.9 % of budgets — and with a minimum indebtedness. Here too a lot of this has been said: 193 million euros this year. We're talking about 0.3% of GDP, which means that Galicia has this year, for the first time since the crisis began, a low debt-to-GDP ratio. And again, things were said inaccurately here. I understand that Mr. Villares took advantage of my intervention to get out, but it would be good if he didn't say weird things. Because he says we're hiding the debt in the private audience. Galicia in 2008 had 309 million euros of public-private debt, currently has 389. In Galicia it represented 0.5% of GDP and now it represents 0.7% of GDP, there is an increase of two tenths of GDP. But in the total autonomous communities, from 0.2% to 0.8%; that is, Galicia used much less intensive public-private collaboration than the rest of the autonomous communities. But in any case, what's important is that the total public debt, with or without GDP, just varies and that we're at 18.6 versus 24.8 on average. So there's a magnificent execution of debt, which we like. There was also a need for these accounts to be added to the expenditure that comes as a result of low interests. And that's not for the FLA. It is that in the amendment to the whole of En Marea it is quite clear that it is by the FLA. No, it's not for the FLA. The FLA involved the intervention of the autonomous community and the loss of financial autonomy. It's through the Finance Facility Fund that Galicia asked for as a fulfilling community so they wouldn't have any more prizes than they did. So we continue to have perfect self-sustainment of expenditure — it does not happen in the rest of the autonomous communities, who have to ask for permission every time they pay an invoice — and at the same time we have financial support from the state. In short, income continues to keep pace, lowered for people who have less income, an opening to the capitalization of families with less resources too — those who have a base on 400,000 successions — and we maintain the property tax and tax expenditure. Tax expenses are criticized, they say they're caciquism. Yesterday, or earlier, there was a new one that said that 48 percent of the large families didn't reach the end of the month. It's a worrying fact, but it turns out that the tax expenditure that criticizes the opposition is in very good measure in support of numerous families. Given the demographic priorities of Galicia, it seems to me that when tax expenses are criticized and even accused of caciquism, it would be good to explain whether they want to remove those from large families or persons with disabilities, etc. In short, we have an budget that we like, and that is why we would simply reject the amendments. But we just didn't like the opposition proposals. Better said, not those of the opposition but those of the different oppositions that, since their plurality, make us different alternatives. And what I want to do about this is some reflections. First, a more generic one about what budget philosophy is. We know that income and burden-sharing have economic effects and has effects on income redistribution. Costs and their structure also have economic consequences, and we know, since the public farm formulated the thesis of Richard Musgrave's multiple farm, that all the income and expenditure decisions we've adopted affect at least what the allocation of resources is. For example, when we talk about unemployment, we have a problem with allocating resources. When we talk about unemployment, we also talk about redistribution of income. But above all, depending on who pays taxes and who receives social expenditure, which is the most redistributive component of public accounts, we're talking about justice and equity. And finally, we're talking about economic stability. So all decisions are complex and that's why budgets are technically known as an economic problem: there are some resources and we can dedicate them to different alternatives that have an effect on the allocation, redistribution and stability of the economic cycle. That's why we, when we get here and repeat several times that we are betting on fiscal adequacy, which means that public spending should not be conditioned by the ability to collect but we have to collect according to real social needs — that is, when we say we need to look for the needs and then we'll look for the money — because they will understand that with that budget philosophy it's difficult to give a lot of credibility to the amendments they present to us, and particularly to the amendment to the whole. You've talked a lot about Keynes. The truth is that we were going to merge the economy, and I think reading these three variables over the cycle gives us the reason. We are growing by 3%, twice as much of the European Union's average, where they also blow up the wind of glue. Some changes in European policies, such as monetary policy, are indeed praised, but Troika is still criticized. Finally, all these questions, as you will understand, seem to us that they are not the right way to see the general philosophy of budgets. My master, Carlos Otero, said, when we were talking about budgetary techniques, that budgeting was very easy, that the case was to have money. That's the essence of the budget, and not the fact of knowing what needs are and then not having money, because that's what brings about a lot of frustration. Besides, we could even do an interesting exercise. For example, to see that last year the needs of society involved amendments to EUR 695 million — which were the ones they presented at Marea — of enlargement of budgets. And it turns out, if we change this year to 228 — which are already in the budgets and are consolidated — and we expand to 331, we get 559. One might think that we're just EUR 127 million already to cover all the social needs. What happens is that this year they keep thinking that social needs have increased another 500 million euros. Well, this is a little joke, but it's not like you guys to think it's not like that. And I also want to point out that this framing of income and expenditure instruments looks very good in wealth tax. Today it was said here that the PP favors, or collaborates, with the capital and with the formation of the capital. The Ibex in 2007 had a profit of 49,000 million; in 2016, it had 34,000. The bank in 2007 had 18 billion profits, and today it has 7 billion benefits. Well, I just give the data, because it must be that we do very bad this to collaborate with the great capital; and in Galicia particularly, because we have a tax on the heritage that is from the highest in Spain — among other things, so we have agreed with the Socialist Party. We're a government that lowers the income of workers who have less income and we keep the estate tax. Could we get him up? We could. What if those who have the heritage, as it already begins to happen, go to communities where the heritage is not paid? Because we'd probably have a double problem, because we'd raise taxes and lose taxes, we'd lose residents with high assets. In any case, what we can't be told is that we are very neoliberal. Second consideration, the reference point is 2009. You say you're critical of us talking about the Bipartite. Today the three spokespersons spoke of the 2009 accounts. Let us take 2009 as a reference point. In 2009, as the advisor pointed out, you had EUR 1,600 million of negative settlement payments for deliveries to the account that we continued to pay the Autonomous Community year by year. The generous counselor forgot to say that that year in budgets was a debt issue of 905 million euros. I mean, you had, between the debt included in the budgets and the debt that we had to pay afterwards, because it was in the negative liquidations that came behind that they left the Government, 2,500 million euros of debt in 2009, compared to the 193 that carry these accounts. Well, with those debt resources that you used, it turns out that in the year 2009 in health, 3,719 million euros were spent and in 2018, 3,858 million euros are planned. It turns health from 35% of the expenditure to 40% of the non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community, and the expenditure per capita increased from EUR 1,300 to EUR 1,430. In education you spent 2,400 million euros, and it's 2,200 now, a drop in the minimum amount. But if we see it per inhabitant, taking into account the population from 2 to 24 years old, it rose from EUR 4,461 per inhabitant to 4,610 per inhabitant. In social action, you spent 570, and now, in 2018, in this budget, 727, an increase of 7.7% and a per capita expenditure rising from EUR 205 to EUR 270. Health expenditure, education expenditure and social promotion expenditure that grew much above what was spent in 2009. Of course we could follow: health concerts, 217 million in 2009 and 205 — a fall of 5% — in 2018; municipalities, from 113 to 120 in the Local Cooperation Fund; universities, from 338 to 421. You can say this government is neoliberal. But if this government is neoliberal with these figures, its anarchocapitalist was lost. And that's something to remember. [[Applause]] What happened? Well, you guys are nostalgics from the real estate bubble. The main transformation that has taken place in the Welsh economy since it blew up the real estate bubble is that construction has gone from representing 11% in Galicia of the total gross added value to 6%. In Spain it fell from 10.1% to 5.1%. Of course, those inflated budgets are held in the real estate bubble, and when this bursts in the year 2009, what we have is 1,600 million euros paying the account plus an issue of 900 million euros. Of course, to think that we have to compare these budgets with those, with this substantial change in the structure of the Greek economy, of course it is an exercise in which we are not going to enter. It's over, Mr. President. Also during the speeches this morning it was said that there was little ambition here. Of course, being ambitious, or not, depends on what an ambition. We intend that budgets be sustainable, and that they be sustainable over time in order to be able to finance social expenditure. We're ambitious that debt doesn't increase more than it needs, because we believe that it can spoil future recovery and because it's not ethical to leave debts to pay future generations. We aim for investment to be made with gross savings and not exclusively debt, precisely for what I just said. We want GDP to grow and public accounts to generate an area where jobs are created, companies export and therefore continue to grow GDP. And we are ambitious in society, we believe that, indeed, health care, education and social policies are priority. If all this is ambitious, these budgets must of course be supported. And, of course, that's why we're going to reject the amendments to the whole of the opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u25	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica of amending groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, I'm going to tell you some notes I took during your intervention, were the answers that I gave to the data, to the evaluations, that we have done since the opposition: lack of level, lack of rigour, lack of skill, we are bad -- imaginous that is also bad -- we have bad faith and the argument your favorite, which we don't understand. And there's another one that I think is a very strict argument: we're not legitimized because PP has more votes. That's an amendment to democracy. [[Applause]] We all have the same legitimacy to be here and to make the ratings we want, because the Greeks and the Greeks that don't vote PP, which are many, who are many, have every right in the world to express their opinion, and we all have the same legitimacy. You are government and we are opposition; but democratic legitimacy, exactly the same. [[Applause]] And, look, what if I thank you — and I thank you very much — is that attack of sincerity, although it was a little unconscious, at the beginning of your intervention, that more or less what you came to tell us is that raising taxes to the rich is stealing. No, no, stealing is Gürtel, stealing is the Lezo case, stealing is the "b" box of the People's Party. [[Applause]] To raise taxes on people who have the most benefits to make redistributive policies is called social justice and equity, which the People's Party does not practice. Do you know how the Greeks and the Greeks would be happier? They wouldn't be seeing how taxes would reduce them to higher incomes. How would the Greeks and the Greeks be happier? If we recover the freeness of the textbooks, if they actually had a day center in Rianxo, which is why I was protesting this lady in this rostrum, because they've been closed for days and days and the German Government isn't even listening, and it's acting with a coldness that's really amazing. [[Applause]] The Greeks, above all the Greeks, would be much happier if they met those 15,000 dependents who had the right to a benefit and those whose government already told them they would not attend them; or they would be much happier if they didn't really have waiting lists in public health, because that's making many and many, in their despair, have to be paying their taxes in order to be able to have a public health but at the same time have to resort to private health because their waiting lists are certainly endangering people's health. And, look, I appreciate that you haven't played too much -- even though you did so -- the theme of Catalonia as an excuse to justify what's happening right now in our country. Because really the problem of the slowdown of the economy doesn't have to do with Catalonia, and you recognize it even to the Government itself. It is the new excuse—I know that Alberto Núñez Feijóo is doing whatever anti-Catalanism is, because it is his great affection—to refuse to see or so that society does not see the problems that are generating the economic model that represents the People's Party, and particularly for Galicia, which we are paying the luxury price for Mr Núñez Feijóo's submission, at the luxury price. [[Applause]] Look, because they don't like the criticisms of BNG, because we're going to see an assessment — which I think is something that will at least have rigour for you — which is from the European Commission. It leaves today in the media the assessment they're making about our country's situation. What do you say about innovation? He says that Galicia occupies a backward position, the trailer, and without being able to stop the brain drain. And much of responsibility is political. The government's low quality hampers economic development and reduces the effects of public investment, including co-financed by cohesion funds. But it says more, and I think this contrasts with that Galician wonder that I am amazed that they are not called by the cabinets at the economic level, the IMF, to fix them, because surely the Greek miracle would deserve it to extend to the rest of the world. But do you know what the European Commission is saying? He said, "The transition regions have only progressed, and will be overcome by others less developed in 2020 if trends persist. According to the GDP history, Galicia is losing the inertia achieved between 2000 and 2008, when it accumulated a progress between 15% and 20%, figures that collapsed during the last decade between 5% and 10%. Economic stagnation and an unfavorable means are pushing the most qualified young people to seek work opportunities outside of Galicia." That's not what I'm making up, they publish the media. And it's the criticism that European institutions are making to disaster that leaves their economic policies. It's a disaster that reports other organizations. I insist, in this case, that I don't give you figures on either the BNG or the IGE, but on the Caritas — which I imagine is an organization that you will respect at least — which is reporting that there are nearly 700,000 Greeks and Greeks at risk of exclusion and that we have 132,000 people in severe poverty. If that seems like a healthy growth to you, if it looks like an optimal situation, then do what you think is best. What we couldn't overcome is that there is growing precariousness, and that the problem is that labour reforms, first of the Socialist Party and after the People's Party, are creating a real social disaster. Because GDP is rising, but the income of workers and workers is decreasing; GDP is rising, but that doesn't tell us what access to health is like access to education and how income is distributed; and GDP is rising, and what we see is how you are neglecting public services in Galicia. Look, we give data that are the official ones in the statistics, the same ones that give us their government. And what he tells us is that in our country there are fewer public workers, and those who are in a situation of greater precariousness. If you send us false data, please correct them. What you can't tell us is that we're missing the truth when we're using the official information that tells us about the Galician Union to this Parliament. I mean, if we had 82,299 civil servants, or public employees, in 2009 and if in 2017 the figure that gives us is that there are 86,268, you can't tell us that you've improved the situation, because here are the data and reality. In the same way that you deceive the population by announcing public employment calls that are then not carried out. Or did they happen to be in health in 2016? Are you not adding these calls to the public employment offers they are making now and we see, while how does an essential service like the health service deteriorate? So what we ask of them is that they abandon propaganda and actually get to work, which is what the Greeks and the Greeks pay for. And finally, let Mr. Puy, on behalf of the People's Party, tell us that it is wrong to be indebted when Mr. Feijóo tripled this country's public debt, because at last I don't know how to qualify. Because then I imagine you'll make a complete amendment to all the economic policy that Mr Feijó did. And what is very serious -- and from our point of view it seems irresponsible -- is that they don't want to recognize the underlying problems. It is clear that in his happy arcade there is no precariousness, there is no unemployment, there are no people with very serious problems to arrive at the end of the month and we have a almost perfect system. Because on the subject of funding you've been responsible for injustice for a long time. They insist that this model was the result of bilaterality. But who signed this financing model was Mr Feijóo. Why didn't you oppose that financing model? Why didn't you claim a fair deal for our country? We've had several years since the People's Party had the legal obligation, the central government had the legal obligation, to review the financing model. They didn't, and you accepted. At what cost? Well, to make public services precarious and to have to owe us more. Because you know perfectly well that the real cost of public services in Galicia is higher than they are providing us through the financing system. And it's not a problem that we don't pay enough taxes or we don't have enough wealth to support our public services. It's a problem of a centralist, unfair and unequal model. And the question we ask them is if the government will do something. Because what's not worth is that, when there's discrimination, the German Government shuts down, which is what it's been doing systematically all this time. The same way we insist that the level of execution that the budgets of the Galician Union have is clearly inadequate. And not only would we have to analyze the runlevel. We would also have to analyze the changes made in our own budget over the year. Indeed, there we see how the priorities drawn in the budget — which in many of them we do not agree — never materialize, because important funds are being diverted from areas sensitive to other kinds of purposes. We saw it, for example, with agricultural policy, which ended up subsidizing the trees of the City of Culture. Of course, I don't think that's a way to deal with it. [[Applause]] They worry about you, Counselor, that you don't want to recognize the problem in rural budgets. With these budgets, we will not only be able to cope with the consequences of the fire strike but also the set-up of a new forest model. And that seems to us to be irresponsible, because it's one of the main challenges ahead. In short, today's Galician Union presents budgets that are the old, the rantiest, of that centralist and neoliberal policy, which are a bad deal for Galicia. And since BNG, what we've been offering them is the possibility of not repeating past mistakes and building a budget that's different and that really gives this country a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u28	Good morning again. I think the first thing we have to do is agree on some basic data and try not to twist them too much. The spokesperson for the People's Group has assumed convergence in terms of GDP per capita since 2000. What happens is that — data from the budget itself of the Union — the increase takes place until 2009. From 2009 onwards, what is a practical stability in relation to the Spanish average; and, in relation to the European average, a fall. There is a point of profit since 2009, from 88 to 89.1, a point of gain. By the way, the same thing happens in wages, Counselor. If we took the average wage — official data — of Galicia in 2009 in relation to the Spanish average, it was 89%. If we take the year 2015, which is the last published, it's 89% too. Well, I shouldn't assume so much of this, with this data that gives a practical stability. Look, this is the chart of what I told them last time before. This is the factorial distribution of income. On the one hand, income from work—from 2009 onwards—and on the other hand mixed income from capital—and look at what happens from 2009 onwards. That's the problem. I can understand that you have good intentions. The problem is that the results later don't accompany these good intentions, and that's why we have to change policies. If they have good intentions and it turns out that the results don't work, they change policies. It is the same thing that is happening in rural areas with the policy of agricultural and forestry structures. They don't give the results you predicted. Change policies and they'll probably have better results. The main problem is employment, and there they can't pretend. You talked about using the ratio between GDP and the active population. I've seen him for the first time. GDP is used in relation to the number of occupations, which indicates the ability of the labour factor to generate wealth, and GDP in relation to the inhabitants, which indicates the ability to sustain a given population. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] GDP in relation to the active population has no economic sense, Counselor, it has no economic meaning. The important thing is employment. And employment is not to be assumed; on the contrary, it is to worry, and for two basic reasons. The first is because we're acting worse than in Spain with the same growth rates and, of course, much worse than neighbour Portugal. In Portugal, for example, they have 10% youth unemployment and here we are at 33%. Better than in Spain? Yes, in terms of unemployment, because incorporation into the labour market is of low intensity. But in terms of employment we are doing worse than Spain and much worse than Portugal. Then it's a matter of concern. But a second reason is that, if we make an assessment of what was the use of the youth guarantee initiative by its economic and employment advisor, we have to say that use is minimal, it is funds coming from the European Union to deal with what is the main problem of the economy of Galicia and its use is minimal. If we see the budgets of the Galician Union in this area, we see that the level of implementation of the schemes to promote training for employment — which is a central issue, even in the short term more important than the expenditure on formal education, because that is what allows people who have lost their jobs, and who are at best 40 or 50 years of age in a desperate situation in terms of incorporation into the labour market, providing them with the qualifications needed to be able to re-enter, they have very low levels of execution year after year. And we're not talking anymore about the Igape, which is a classic in this matter and what I suppose Mr. Abel Losada will talk about this afternoon, where we continue with extremely worrying levels of execution. And then, of course, there are some games that improve. Are they having a bigger margin? Of course, they improve some games. But we have little hope that this improvement in the beginning of the budget will allow us to see better results of final execution, and in many cases this will not even result in better performance for society. Look, I'm extremely worried about this. I don't want to advertise any entity, but it's the credit/deposit relationship. Galicia is here. I was wrong before. I said 20 percent of GDP. No, no, it's 20,000 million, almost 33% of gross domestic product. The difference between credits and deposits, according to the statistics of a financial institution. It's a very worrying matter because that, let's say, is the synthetic expression of the failure of its economic policy. Reduce successions? Perfect! I had already done so by the government deosted Mr. Touriño—deosted by you—have done so justly for those people who had the heritage under. He'd already removed the usual housing from taxation. And you guys did what they did was expand that tax bonus to the rest of the rents upstairs. If that were to result in a sharp increase in economic activity and investment that would allow us to grow much more than the Spanish average, it would make sense. But it turns out that none of this happens, nothing of this happens. What happens is that, of course, there is more availability of income and wealth at the top of the social entrant. But this turns out that, through the financial system and other means, much of that impulse goes abroad. And that is what we should be concerned about: how do we get the policies we're trying to put in place -- in their case they're not exactly the same as ours, but we're going to give them a certain crest in that sense -- because they have the right results. And if they don't have them, we'll change them. And they don't have them, in terms of employment they don't have them. We have a specific problem of youth unemployment. I told them before the investment. I didn't invent the figures, the recognized bond figures in the capital expenditure chapter are taken from their budget document. And it turns out that in 2016, after two years of recovery and that you say you have already budgeted I don't know how much, there's the lowest level of bonds recognized in terms of capital expenditure in consolidated budgets of the Galician Union of the entire stage of Government Feijóo. That's why, at last, we have to be concerned about their ability to run. There are some economists who recently pointed us out in a very famous book, why nations fail, the importance of institutional factors in medium- and long-term growth in the economy, and surely you will agree with me. And here we have little hope, because, after a few years of failure, for example, in the management of employment policy, or in the management of economic promotion policy through Igape, there is no reflection and nothing is collected in the budget of the Galician Union that tells us that there is some concern about these issues. So we have to improve institutional quality. And on the micro level that's what it means. Finally — not lastly, I thought we were already finishing but I still have some time left — let's see, the financing system. You criticized the financing system, and you told me it was because it was multilateral. But it was adopted at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council! Yes, with Mr. Feijó's presence there! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was adopted by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Then it would be bilateral in its origin but it was multilateral in the end. And secondly, tell me that you don't like criteria, that you'd change them for more favorable ones. Perfect! Sign it! But it turns out, when we brought the opposition here to force the House's position on the financing system, we proposed a commitment, which is to improve Galicia's relative position in terms of adjusted per capita funding, and you didn't want to compromise. So you're willing to get that better or not? I do! Please! To take into account, for health care, those older than 85 years old, and social spending? Perfect! Another way to spread out, which favors Galicia? I totally agree! It is up to me to say yes, that Galicia will improve in terms of relative per capita funding adjusted to the new model of self-financing, and we will agree completely. But if not, in the meantime, don't criticize so much. Be a little more humble. I'm not saying I apologize, but at least at last, it indicated that it wasn't as bad as it looked. In relation to debt and deficit — especially the deficit, and also its report — the central government, including Social Security, -1.8%; autonomous communities, -0.4%; local corporations, 0%. Of course, that doesn't respond to the distribution of spending between administrations, it doesn't even respond to what is sensible. And I'm no longer saying a breakdown that takes into account only the expense, because there are clearly some functions that must be reinforced, and surely the Social Security must have a higher deficit. But there's a more balanced breakdown because it seems reasonable. Will it have little effect? Yes, in the next few days. But unfortunately we are not immune to the possibility that there is another recession — we hope that it is not as serious as this — And at that time these criteria which are in the law will also apply. Yes, yes, they will also apply. And that's what we'd have to change, because it's going to agree with me that the autonomous communities at that time probably need some additional margin. So I tell you that we recognize that we are in economic recovery, we recognize that the economy is bouncing. The comparison with the rest of Europe is not very good, because the rest of Europe did not have the fall that Spain and Galicia had. He behaved more clearly during the crisis and therefore the rebound is also smaller. But anyway, finally, we're bouncing. We create fewer jobs, we create more precarious jobs. And, above all, what I think to you is that we don't use the margins that economic recovery gives us to strengthen the capacity of action of the Galician Union to solve the very serious social problems we have, to solve them at once, to care well for the dependents, to care well for people at risk of poverty, to do all these things and at the same time to strengthen our ability to grow in the long term. It's about applying more resources, but above all it's about applying them better. And that would require a reflection that you don't do, which is what concerns us very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u29	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Puy would be surprised at our way of making the budgets. And it's strange to them that we, first of all, ask ourselves what people need, and then we calculate the budgets. Well, we don't have a better way of putting the economy at the service of people who, first, know what it takes for people to have a better chance of living, what it takes to make social justice, what it takes for everyone to have the needs covered. And from that point on, to draw up budgets that are consistent with these needs. Just as a person — anyone in life — has to know or knows that he must first meet the needs of food, clothing, housing, that is to say, to put an account of which are the minimum needs to get out of life. We think -- the way in Marea to understand the public accounts -- that budgets should be made this way: first to know what people need and then to go out looking for the resources they need to meet people's needs. That's why we do the following, after seeing what people need, is to see what wealth our society has. We looked at GDP and from there we drew up budgets that would seek sufficient resources, within that wealth, to meet social needs. It seems to us that this is the fairest way of making public accounts, the fairest way of setting up a redistributive principle that, through public accounts, must be done for everyone to have the same opportunities in life. Of course, maybe you live happily in ignorance of not knowing what these social needs are and therefore making budgets without knowing what people need. We, however, prefer to know what people need. We thank them for making it clear that they don't know what people's needs are when they make budgets, because that explains much more about En Marea's political position in confronting models in relation to the People's Party. And, speaking of confronting, when faced with the budgets of 2009 and 2017 — or the forecasts of 2018 — we would like them to take account also of the variation in inflation, i.e. raising that currency veil that prevents them from properly comparing all kinds of amounts, so as not to confuse nominal amounts with actual amounts. I don't know if, as Mr. Martínez said, it's a matter of typhoon that makes us the Government or really is that they're confused about doing this. We're going to think they're confused and they're not trying to fool the public with this, because it would be even worse. And speaking of the budgets of 2009 and the reference to whether they were inflated or not, when making the terms of comparison, we thought that, as they were drawn up in a coherent manner with the years 2007 and 2008, they included the forecast of what should be planned at that time. And it came in the middle of Lehman Brothers' breakup and, with that, a crisis that gave rise to a low income. That here, of course, would never happen because who could think that a Spanish bank would be broken, like Santander, BBV, etc.Oh, my God! That doesn't happen in the Spanish system because we're much more solvents. Or, if it happens, the banks are rescued with money from all over the world, and that's it! And that's what happened in the Spanish state. And all the billions transferred from the effort of all people, taken from the realization of fundamental rights -- they just recognized it a few months ago, Mr. De Guindos and the Bank of Spain -- almost 40 billion euros from the sacrifice of all people from the Spanish state as a whole, will remain for the banks, they will never return. And so, since you were talking about Robin Hood's policies, these are the anti-Robin Hood policies, which was to rob the common people to give to the bankers, to give it to those who, with their pure, their chaque and their hat of glass, laugh at us because they have decent representatives in this House adjusting their budgets. They're bankers' monks, and that's why we don't like their way of making public accounts. If the scissors cut their threads, they would fade away like the smoke they sell us. Mr. Martínez also spoke of the legitimacy of the model, and he says that all models are legitimate. Then, of course, he was talking about his election victory. You have a legitimacy of origin. But the legitimacy of origin is to perform certain functions. People have empowered us to meet certain rights, also to meet social rights, to meet people's needs. And here's what we're seeing that you, with this budget, are not fulfilling that. There are people who voted for them and who are disappointed because there are still a lot of people unemployed, there are still people who have precarious jobs, and more and more. Since you have been in government -- reference is still now -- the rate of poverty and social exclusion has increased in the last year. The Gini index, in relation to social inequalities, has increased a point in the last exercise. So we think you're cheating on the people who voted for them. Therefore, this legitimacy of origin is being lost in the legitimacy of the exercise, because they are not taking care of the people, not even of the one who voted them, as a lady previously told them from the rostrum. You pay attention to the people and you pay attention to the rights that you have to satisfy. That's why we think they should start doing the public accounts knowing what these people need in order for you to assert a legitimacy of exercise. This is not just an opinion of En Marea. The last report of the United Nations Committee on the Follow-up to the Covenants on Social and Economic Rights drew attention to the continuing non-compliance of the Spanish State with this covenant, both in the lack of guarantees of rights and access to work, working conditions, life assurance, extreme poverty, situations of risk of social exclusion... All this is being pointed out at the international level not only by the central authorities, but also, as is explicitly done by this report of the United Nations, by the autonomous communities. Focus on meeting commitments not only autonomous, not only national, not only state, but also international. We also referred to you in relation to the comparisons that you make with 2009 and to the imperience — or taking the lead — of not making the comparison in nominal terms, but in real terms, considering an inflation that varied, from 2009 to 2018 forecast, with which we established the comparison, 12%. Nor did you, when you went up here — and that you had unlimited time — discredited our criticism of the 2018 nominal cuts on such important issues — even though they do not seem to be so important to you — as the promotion of employment, the promotion of business and industrial soil, and the actions of rural environmental assessment: function 32, of promotion of employment, in more than EUR 1.5 million; function 53, of promotion of soil for economic activities, in more than EUR 11 million; function 55, of actions and assessments of the rural environment, which has been reduced to EUR 2.8 million; and number 73, of industry, which is reduced to EUR 13 million — nothing more than 22% — in relation to this year. There's the comparison, they have it on the table and they can see it; and they can also answer, if they like, about that situation. With regard to debt, you're talking about the "debt monotheme." Then we thank you for your debt too. And in their speech about the FLA and the Financial Facility Fund, you talk and you assume that the reduction in financial expenditure is EUR 65 million, attributing it as one of the successes of the Union, because it says it's thanks to its management of public debt — which we pay less because we owe ourselves less. This is false, in 2018 debt will increase by 275 million euros more, to the historical peak of 11,500 million euros. Galicia has never been so indebted. Now, what hides Junta, in this speech that aims to sell as a triumphalist, is that the reduction in the financial burden is thanks to the FLA deostate, in the formula now called "financial facility". At Marea during the past course he came to this House asking them to take the FLA. We brought the decree itself, the royal decree governing the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, and we asked them to tell us that the FLA article established the obligation of intervention by the Ministry when the accounts of the autonomous community did not meet the targets of the deficit. And you weren't able to quote the article just because it didn't exist. You could have welcomed the FLA all these years. They would have saved us a good crowd of millions of euros, which we carefully qualify for at 1,100 million euros and that you weren't able to discredit it that way. And they weren't able because that was supposed to amend the president's own speech of refusing to resort to the Autonomic Liquidity Fund for several years. Now, in the form of the Financial Facility Fund, which is exactly the same -- without making a reference to those communities that failed to meet the deficit targets, but which had already existed before the FLA regulated -- they come and assume savings. Indeed, they save — and we already congratulate them when they did —. What we're wondering is why they didn't do it before. You know why not? For the brawling of Nuñez Feijóo not to enter the FLA, although there was no subject to intervention discipline. Well, you also refer to the macro painting. Tell us he's glad we're referring to him. Of course we make reference! How are we not going to make reference when you describe in the macro box the slowing down of growth in our economy? Are you proud that growth will be reduced, in the coming year, by seven tenths, which means in relation to previous growth by 22%? Are you proud? Of course we're worried! Of course we'll bring him here! You also speak in the macro framework of the greatest wealth in history, of the greatest GDP in history for 2018. That's why we refer to the budget as being consistent with that level of wealth and they're not being. And we also have to make reference — and we have done so, of course — to employment forecasts. Because, with the job forecasts that they make for 2018, they're not going to be able to meet the legislation forecasts in that recovery of those 100,000 jobs that they said. Not in four or in five or six years! And thank you for blessing me now, which seems to have been here pontifying the level of accounts. He says where the opposition sees weaknesses you see strength, referring to the dependence on external demand. For In Marea it is not a problem that there is an external demand but the weakness of domestic demand, which shows, for us, a lack of purchasing capacity, a lack of money in houses and businesses. And, therefore, also another meaning — which we have also seen denouncing —: the type of job created, the security conditions that people have and the money they have available to take out of that internal demand. And that shows symptoms that are not a healthy economy. Finally, in relation to employment — there are other things you have commented on — you speak of the fact that high temporality in public employment does not depend on the Government. Well, see if it's going to depend on the workers and the workers, who prefer to be on an interim regime rather than on a regime of stability in public employment. He was also talking about the budget and employment phases, and they were teaching us here about the budget phases. And speaking of phases, you left out of running nearly 60 million euros last year in terms of employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u32	...that we continually show them here and what they're not able to get rid of because they just have no answer. Why did you stop spending all that money on all the job and precarious requirements? So we don't understand what this position is about. Finished on the subject of emigration. You gave the latest data. Give them contextualized, say what time it is taking to give such references. In the last year, specifically, few people are leaving because it's all gone! There aren't any new people left practically.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u33	Quiet. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u34	Unfortunately, comparing it in relative terms, and year by year, the march of the new population has already been taking place in an escalated and continuous manner for quite a long time, not only since you arrived, but marked, yes, since you arrived at the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u35	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this debate. Mr. Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u36	Thank you again, Mr. President. See if I have a little more fortune now in this second intervention. In the matter of democratic legitimacy, in my exposure, in the way I usually am for these things, I didn't presume in any way more legitimacy than this one who talks to them; at least, like, something that they're not used to in groups, or in some group, of opposition. I always say "equal." Defend the top of this government also the principle of equality, whether or not, so I made two references to the theory of original sin. I don't believe in those things. So it's the same. And that's what it takes you to not get lessons. Taxes and social justice. Today afternoon we will see, as I said earlier in my first speech, even certain environmental or non-environmental taxes, of certain issues, which have an impact that has a Mumerang effect, which can be transferred to citizens and so obviously the result will be totally different from the one pursued. He also referred the BNG spokesman to the subject of dependents and waiting lists. Here you've done a lot about what it was in 2009. It seems to me to remember that any comparison in terms of absolute size, even in terms of people waiting for dependency, is totally different what is in 2017, today, than it was in 2009. You know that well. Anyone who follows these issues a little bit will realize that the number of people attended has multiplied by almost three in the worst times of public income that this community has had, right? Does that mean all things are satisfied? Not at all! But the 2018 budget, in a very clear way, will enable us to be among the autonomous communities that have a better relationship. He also introduced another theme, for this one who talks to them, very dear -- perhaps because it was too long in Sergas, in a dry matter, like human resources -- when he talks about waiting lists. Compare the waiting lists — since we have the latest data at the moment — with any previous parameter — which is now in 62 days, I think I remember, these are the only data I have, with which I was then, I think it's significantly different and I think it's playing with the issue. But besides, when we refer to public health, on the one hand, is the subject of waiting lists and on the other hand there are people who provide services. And today, what I can tell you in a round manner is that the number of troops that provide the magnificent health care we enjoy in Galicia is more than those that were in the best of the years 2008 and 2009. So that idea is quite clear. And above all, the perception our citizens have about the health care they receive is clearly improving. Does this mean we don't have much to do? Not at all. Let me also use a colloquial expression. Here are certain authors, that if Bertolt Brecht, if Piketty, if so... I'm a little more humble in my formulation and I always like the refreshments a little more. In this case I'll take advantage of the typical North American saying that "carefully about things, don't try to fix what works, it evolves." Let's not try to fix things that work sometimes, because, although there's a lot left to do, it's more than we've been doing a little bit between us all. Catalonia. Catalonia is not an identity issue, it is an identity issue, but, above all, it is a question that, whether we want it or not, will have a total impact on what is the conformation of our reality of growth. And when any of you are talking here about what growth is and they call it "deceleration"... we're talking about 2.5%, the influence of the situation of uncertainty -- by calling it sweet -- in Catalonia, we're talking about 2.5%, and that's what we call "deceleration." So what happens in France, what happens in Germany, what happens in Britain, what do we call it? When really above 2% is when our society... And that's moving a little bit worse to the question of employment, which was also advanced by all of you? Of course! But why don't you tell the truth? Why not tell the truth and that, when we analyze the last EPA — experts in this holy Parliament — there is a clear result that the most growing employment and occupation has to do with the industrial sector? Why don't you say that reality? Why not tell us reality, when we are criticized for the results within the rural environment, that this is the second most busy component coming closer? Why is it not said that the service sector, which was held in 2016, is starting to be a little more tonic in 2017? Why isn't it said that at the moment what hasn't ended was, in the construction sector, job destruction? And if we didn't take the construction sector into account, right now we'd be up to date in almost 26,600 more employees, with the EPA data in the second quarter. So what are we talking about? You mean everything's okay? Not at all. But my words can't say that. Today's theme of La Voz that has twice removed the spokeswoman from the BNG. We must also read the subjects with a certain level of rest, and with a certain level of relationship in order to bring them to Parliament. It is undeniable that one of the strategic challenges that we have highlighted in our 2015-2020 plan is the theme of innovation, which has two components, one public and one private. Our first and direct relationship is with public investment. Please repeat the figures for this budget, where the innovation budget rises more than 20%. So, what do we talk about? It is here — allow me, with all due respect, Mrs. Pontón — I come here to talk about my book, and my book right now is the budget. [[Murmurs.]] And we relate things to each other. Not only do we take advantage of an article coming out in La Voz de Galicia today... Hey, hey, easy! Let's take a quiet look at the subjects, shall we? [[Laughter]] Let's look calmly enough, as we also say in business dynamization, industrial parks and so on... I understand that sometimes it's difficult, but, for example, in business dynamization, when the Igape rises by 18% in chapters I to VII, and if we consider that the Igape also has an VIII chapter, which grows almost 8 million euros, and we're talking again about more than twenty-one percent, how can we criticize that situation? It's something that... Precautionary work. This one who talks to them, in his first speech, made it clear that we can't be happy with the data we have. The data in work precariously right now are better than we had a year ago, two, three and four? That's undeniable. Our relative position regarding what is happening in Spain, which is where we live — praise God! — turns out that it is better in medium terms. [[Laughter]] So what are we criticizing? Is there much left to do? You have to be humble enough... Financing system. But how are we going to talk about the financing system...! Then I'm very grateful for the position that if I introduced the PSOE spokesman. I therefore believe that it is possible at this time to take a step further and to profile, with sufficient metrics, what it means to speak of a better consideration of dispersion, and what it can be, especially for those aged 85 — not only those aged 65 but 85 — that it has a strong impact on health care and social services. But our dispersion also has another factor. It has about health — to a lesser extent — and in social services, but above all in education. The great peculiarity that we have of human settlement moves to that greatest cost, with a great differential, that we have with regard to Spain. One of the questions why I was talking about a certain level of expertise — I don't say they are experts, but with a certain level of expertise — introduces the variable of budgets for the year 2018 in the field of rural environment. As regards the rural environment, the president himself, in his presence, has been announcing certain measures — in number of thirty-something, I think — to recall. They've been advanced, this is not done overnight. What if we had been sufficiently cautious — so I speak of urgency — is that in the fund structure which currently contains the Rural Council — I would advise that, by no means, it is possible to multiply by almost six million in the field of rural environment — what enables these five or six million euros of own fund membership — by modifying the appropriate RDP — is to be able to multiply by almost six million in an immediate manner. So we've all had enough tranquillity and, once the mid-October limit situation has succeeded, and after we've had enough distance, we've all collaborated, opposition groups and government group, in developing the measures that were ahead, which I think, although it's never enough, will come closer to what can be a recomposition of that important problem that we've had at the moment. Don't pretend, Mr. Leicega, to calculate only the 2000-2016 years, even what wages are. What I'm telling you is that, since 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, which is when the Autonomous Community of Galicia begins to emerge from the recession, the data indicate that we are going out better than the rest of Spain in multiple factors. And in what we're going slightly behind us, as I have just commented, which is in terms of employment and wages, we do go out, because we're still not messing with the theme of construction. If not, our position would be very close to the middle, and I think that, little by little, will also be reflected for the year... You were talking about the factorial distribution of income, the loss of salary income and the gain of mixed income. Yes, a consolidation process of this type of income is under way. Yes, obviously, because you know, like me, that in the years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 there was a situation where companies and mixed incomes had to make a brutal adjustment on their business capacity. And what's happening right now is a process of much accelerated accumulation and disalignment, which is what you're causing is that right now you're starting to move to employment in a more accelerated way than we've done so far. So there's no kind of incoherence, it's a logical result that's happening right now. Home!, at work, another of the monocords of what you've talked about, which is the subject of budget execution. As always, everything is better. But it turns out that the overall budget execution of the Galician Union in 2016, in consolidated terms, was 100.6%. Don't tell me that's bad. When we also talk about the low execution in the appropriations of Chapters VI and VII, why don't we tell the truth and that Chapter VI and VII have a high component of European funds whose operational programmes have not been approved until well advanced in 2016? How are you going to move? Why don't we say that these funds aren't lost? Why do we put an annuality criterion on a fund system that doesn't have it? Don't lose yourself, please! Then let's keep going. And to show you a button; to show you a button, because it was also of the criticisms that were made to those that we've spent a few years on these public service themes. This year 2017, as a result of the final liquidation of the European Social Fund of the previous framework, it turns out that the Autonomous Community of Galicia receives 18 million more. Otherwise, other communities did not execute it. Why don't we wait for an act of normality and see how the different components behave in the field of employment and the multiple funds that come to us to face a reality that can be improved? So I can't match what you were thinking. Home, the subject of succession tax. I understand, Mr. Leicega, that anyone has to defend his own. So what I think is that this is the first question I had to talk to her companion from Andalusia. They just did the same thing as us, but instead of setting 400,000 limits, they just put a million. Then you tell me, then, if so... [[Applause]] What surprises me is also when we talk about the execution of the year 2016 with a certain grace. Because we had to hear about the ones we were around here in 2016. So we were going to spend what wasn't written because it was an election year. What are we left with? Was it an election year and we spent what is not written or it turns out that it was a year when we normally spent everything that could be spent, knowing that there are always things that can be improved? Mr. Villares, Mr. Villares, the inflation of the year 2009 so far... Because then it means that... first they denied the crisis, now they didn't deny it, they didn't know how to act... they took enough time to recognize that the Greek and Spanish economy was generally growing. And now it turns out we're getting better, we're just missing in terms of... nominal/real. We're getting better, little by little they're evolving. I understand that it costs them, I understand it costs them, but, in all my respect, they should be careful not to deauthorise these issues. And sometimes with qualifications that even at personal level hurt when used — legitimately — from this rostrum. "Leximity in origin," as I answered Mrs. Pontón: I always presume the same legitimacy, the same!, no more, the same. Then industrial soil, rural environment and employment promotion. Again, I'm telling you that the budget is when it's drawn up, when it's approved, when it's executed, when it's liquidated, but in the middle, you have to be able to do things, you have to be able to do things. As far as employment is concerned, I'm going to repeat what I said earlier. When the expenditure ceiling was drawn up, this Autonomous Community did not know the figures to be taken to the appropriate sectoral conference. At this point, I can point out that there are 18 million euros more than we had —18, curiously, that they also coincide with others, but importantly, they are something else; they are not wrong in case, in case they are not mistaken. They're 18 million that can be activated and that at the same time, by a simple caution, they can't be activated right now because if we don't, we'll lose our spending capacity. Is it so hard to understand this question? Please! And in rural areas -- I want to repeat it -- they work together on a very important issue of the country that is being produced. The financial foundations are set out to be able to take on activation through the reprogramming of the RDP, where the rural environment is concerned. They work together, because these five, almost six practically, millions of euros of greater funds at this time that we are going to approve in Parliament will mean that we can multiply them by 6. We're already talking about 36 more for the year 2018. Let's not lose sight of what there is much to do, and therefore continue. So, re-enactment of the Greek economy?... Mr. Villares, we'd like you to... of course, some are a little new, but speaking up to these moments of more than 2%, talking about 2.5%, that all the countries in our surroundings are quite distant from us... and it turns out that it is influenced by a reality like Catalonia, by a reality that is not sufficiently said to be the blockade of the main public actor that exists in this country, which is the budget of the central government. That's also important by magnitude. And maybe we're talking about one or two tenths of the state budget. So if it wasn't that situation, we'd be quietly at 3%, which is where we are right now in real terms. And what's curious is, too, where something hits, where there's an incoherence, is what the lack of money from families and businesses can be. If we were consistent with what we're saying, with what the Socialist Party spokesman has just said, that we have a propensity in deposits far greater than any other territory in Spain, there is something that is not possible. If families have so little, how do they have these deposits like that, and companies? It's something that doesn't start to match. I also say one thing to the spokesman for the Socialist Party: man! is that this is a little the economic history of Spain and Galicia, is that the propensity to the saving that has always been there in Greek society has always been manifestly greater than in any other territory. Or does this reality suddenly appear after the conclusion of the economic crises? It's just that I think it's a little special this kind of reasoning, as the historian well knows that he's also manifesting himself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, as I already told them -- and already to move forward and not tire them much more -- I think we're in a stage like we haven't been since 2008. This growth knows that we preach basically if we sit on a level of orthodoxy, which some call neoliberal. If that's what they call it, I also feel very comfortable with that designation, because basically part of realism and rigour and trying to do things with a certain witty, very peculiarness of our land. So the situation has a very important margin of improvement in multiple fields, in both labour, social and even economic, even public. Not to recognize that would be to deceive us, but the situation is immensely better than we had at the worst stage of the crisis. We're better than we were in the years 2008 and 2009, we're getting out of the crisis in a much more correct way, to my understanding. This government has always had feet on the ground, but we still believe that, in fact, this social and integration message we will never leave it in the hands of certain parties that feel very comfortable doing... I think it's something common, it's something that jumps to the eye and that, therefore, we recognize that there are people with difficulties, yes we recognize that there is a lot left to do and yes we recognize that we have done so much, very much, very much, and so on. Because our progress seems to be right. We're going to extend our performances because I'm already saying, "Don't fix what works, make it better." Our priorities are clear, it's better! And this is all in a scenario that is the great difference we have with anyone: institutional, economic and political stability. So that's what we're dedicated to, so I ask you to keep working. I'm sure there are things we can do better than budgets, but in a fair way, without any major attacks. Because I think it is the right time for it to even take a step from Galicia to the rest of Spain and Europe. Let's look for that growth in stability, which will thank us for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u37	Thank you, Counselor. Vote for Group I amendments Voting of amendments to the total demand for the global refund of budgets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u38	We therefore vote on the amendments under discussion. Close the doors, please. We are beginning to vote on amendments to the whole demand for the global return of budgets. Voting of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # 19938) by G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u39	We are now voting on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # 19918) by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u40	We voted for the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # 19892) by G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of amendments to the total demand for the refund of budget items from sections or expenditure managers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u41	We are now voting on amendments to the budget refunds for sections or expenditure managers. We begin by voting on the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales; in particular, those between paragraphs 1 and 12. We vote. Vote of Amendments 1 to 12 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, returning budgets from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u42	We are now voting on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group between paragraphs 1 and 11. We vote. Vote of Amendments 1 to 11 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, returning the budgets of the sections or of the expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u43	Finally, we are voting on the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group between paragraphs 1 and 33, both of which are included. We vote. Vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 33 of the G.P. of In Marea, returning budgets from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u44	At the end of the vote, we suspended the meeting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u45	Good afternoon. Debates and votes on amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u46	We resumed the meeting with the debate and vote on amendments that amend the overall budget account or transfer appropriations between sections. In particular, we are talking about amendments that change the overall budget content, and here are amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. And we will also discuss the amendments that transfer credits between sections, where there are also amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Group and the Group of the Tide. We therefore begin with the debate, and first of all you have the floor, for the defence of the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Mrs Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u47	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the doors of November 25 it's not much to remember how much the theories of feminism have taught us in analyzing reality. And the philosopher Celia Amorous said that conceptualizing is politicizing. It refers to the need to move from the anecdote to the category. It would refer to this by talking about the need for visibility of the inequalities that we suffer from women precisely by naming them. This reflection is part of an evidence, which is that what is not named does not exist, and also the evidence that those who have power are the ones who normally give names to things, who has power, is the one who mostly imposes the story. And that's what you're doing with the rhetoric of recovery: imposing a fascinatingly biased and self-comprehensive account, a story that repeats with propaganda politics but that is far from reality. Mr. Martínez, you said this morning that we were -- and I quote textually -- "in the best possible scenario," and that we were getting recovery to be strengthened. And, look, don't get me wrong, but I print one thing -- then, if you want, I'll give it -- which is the entry into the Royal Galician Dictionary of the word "recovery," so we know what we're talking about. The first definition says "recovery" is to have something that has been lost; the second, to put into service something that is broken; and the third, to compensate, by spending more time or more effort on the usual. And, Counsellor, the analysis of these budgets, I have to tell you, on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, that recovery is not to stop falling, that recovery is to return, is to compensate. And you're not doing it in these budgets. That's why we tabled this amendment to the whole, because they don't recover the conditions and rights that we lost the Greeks and the Greeks with the alibi of the economic crisis, because they don't serve to recover well-damaged public services, and because they don't devote more budgets and more effort to the political priorities that this country needs. These are budgets to all insufficient lights and start from, from our point of view, a misdiagnosis, which are limited to start, as explained in the morning, by a political corset that limits our spending capacity. Moreover, we say they're irresponsible budgets, because they mark priorities that are opposed to the needs of our country at the moment. Because we can't forget that the crisis and its consequences are not just socio-economic, they're not just conjunctive, and much less they're passengers. These are deep consequences that are bringing about a social crisis. And it reveals the unwillingness of the People's Party to cut it off. For these reasons, and for the issues that were able to crumble this morning with greater depth, we present this cross-sectional amendment, which also shows the existence of an alternative political project. First of all, I will stop with regard to income. As far as income is concerned, you are presenting, one more year, a project that consolidates a regressive tax policy, which refuses to introduce significant changes to the other conception of taxation that is really in the parameters of progressiveness, redistribution and social justice. As far as tax matters are concerned, the measures that have been announced by the President of the Union in the recent debate on the state of the nation, but which are simple point deductions in the IRPF and in the heritage, and which have little impact. In front of that, since the BNG, we have presented a series of proposals to increase income by pushing our self-government to reconfigure the current tax system so that we can get a greater collection with greater progressivity, so that it really pays more than it has, and that results in the relief of the most vulnerable social layers and the whole of society in general. So as far as wealth tax is concerned, we have improved their progress by reducing the minimum exemption. We've eliminated the popular party's regressive changes to the tax of successions and prayers as well. And we do not give up insisting on the need to explore the creation of new taxes, such as one that exacerbates large commercial areas and compensates for the impact they have on economic, social and environmental levels, and discourages this formula. And finally, as far as IRPF's German plot is concerned, we propose again a new type to apply it to incomes of more than 120,000 euros, which would also allow us to obtain greater resources. These changes that I have just mentioned briefly would set up a tax system that would walk towards greater justice and progress, and that would bring to public buildings 135 million to improve basic public services, to cover social emergencies and to dynamize productive sectors. As for expenditure priorities, we set out in the following block of amendments that we present, in the face of a model characterized by improvisation and deregulation policy, an alternative political, economic and social model based on social justice, strengthening basic services and public participation and intervention in productive tissue. Through this battery of amendments, we have defined the priorities of Greek nationalism in this context of social and national emergency that we understand is not exceeded, so there are no speeches of self-compliantness when a volume of pre-crisis budgets is justified, but it is not so with regard to the distribution of their priorities. Since the BNG we have been warning about the People's Party's adherence to the model of poverty consolidation and precariousness, which underpin their policies from San Caetano and from Madrid assuming that the consequences of the crisis are and will be the worst in which their growth is sustained. But we think that we are faced with an exceptional situation and that today's decisions can go in two directions: or rather lead us to assume that this is the only possible model, the model that leaves us a Greek society poorer and more unequal than before the crisis, in which most of the population has seen their quality of life reduced, or an alternative model, which is to bet on why there is another possible future, so that we can intervene from the political power so that the serious decisions we have endured, decisions like those that were related today to the issue of bank bailout, we don't have to pay them all and all the Greeks. Since the BNG we've had it clear and we don't resign. We don't resign and we understand there's an alternative. And in this amendment we intend to set out a new model of social protection that overcomes precariousness and poverty as structural problems. First, by recovering basic public services. Because, despite increasing counting on fundamental elements such as health or education, they do not compensate, by far, the accumulated cuts or the jobs destroyed or precarious. So in our proposal for an alternative, we are committed to increasing staff and resources, both for health and education, with a recovery plan of 80 and 70 million respectively. Last week the press echoed, in an interview, the working life of a Sergas worker who had made over 270 contracts in five years. I don't know if this is it, Mr. Martínez, what you called, on the turn of the morning, "full technical employment within the Greek administration." But, of course, we do not share that vision and we continue to recommend to him that he really resort to the definition of "recovery," in case they have to start calling him otherwise. [[Applause]] We understand that much remains to be compensated for these basic services, and we add fundamental programmes and that you have closed, such as the recovery of the universal loan of textbooks, the expansion of school lunches or the reinforcement for research and university scholarships. We also understand that it must be a priority to reduce waiting lists and reverse private derivatives from public health to what we also include proposals. Secondly, we are firmly convinced that we have to bet on another model of social protection by allocating public resources to those people who are the worst going through it right now. It is intolerable that since Galicia is one of the state's oldest communities, spending on the per capita dependency system is less than the state average. That's why we bet, in a program that we add, that we end up with waiting lists also in dependence and also in disability, as well as a social security income and a question that we think is fundamental for both our pensioners and pensioners to stop being the last of all statistics: it's necessary to strengthen the extraordinary fund of beneficiaries of non-contributory pensions, we understand that this is absolutely a priority in this context. Thirdly, since the BNG we want to bet on a new social model which, with political ambition, seeks to get the Greeks and Greeks out of precariousness and poverty, two elements that were practically absent on their first day of the morning, Mr. Martínez, and that we understand that it is irresponsible. That is why we are betting on measures such as setting up resources and measures to curb labour fraud, with particular attention to what is taking place in timeliness and recruitment. While you boast about employment data, we have a country in which, with data from 2009 to 2016, of the above working years, the contracts that have been most increased are those of a most precarious nature. You can wear it anyway, but possibly, for example, you've raised to 71.5 percent — which is the most common already — and that of practices has increased to 79 percent. We understand that it is also essential to think of all the Greeks and Greeks who have left and who want to return, even if I had laughed at the President of the Union in the morning. I brought two images, two clippings, two headlines, which represent two ways to want to do. December 2016: "The People's Party tells you not in Parliament to the Return Plan of the BNG for the return of the Galician youth" and July 7, 2017: "Portugal encourages the return of over 100,000 young people who emigrated with the crisis." Is it not embarrassing for you to have the opportunity to bet on such measures as those proposed in the Plan Back and that you would continue to deny reality and without turning the immigrant young people into a priority, and that they disappear from our country 237,000 people in their years of government and that you will continue with the rhetoric of recovery as if nothing had happened in this country? [[Applause]] Yes, of course, we will continue to propose questions to address these problems. And finally, in terms of the social model, we understand that real equality has to be a priority. That's why we set resources for women's equal pay and work, which I'm going to degrade later. We also present a specific game to reinforce what should be a priority for any political agenda: the fight against violence against the masculine. We reiterate that we need, at least, to commit ourselves, if we want you to believe that you want to make progress in pacts in the state or in Galicia, with resources on the table to be a reality and not a wet paper We will insist that we need 1% of the budgets for this priority, because if it is not a priority the lives of the women of this country, what is it?, what is it, ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party? [[Applause]] On the other hand, we are also betting on a new economic model, a new economic and productive model, which I will briefly refer to before time runs out. We understand that the social model and the economic model go hand in hand, and it is important to consolidate changes that ensure our position towards the future, that they do not depend simply on issues such as exports and that they bet on value added. That's why in this context of financial fragmentation we bet on a public band again. And in the face of the deregulation sponsored as the only political alternative on the part of the People's Party, we have established a return strategy, for those Greek matrix companies displaced abroad, through the capture of new investments, with particular attention to research. It is essential — we understand — a paradigm shift in the productive tissue, as it is also — as I will mention specifically at the end of my intervention — in what has to do with the primary sector and with the forest model. Sincerely, after what this country lived in October, we expected these to be the correctional budgets. After you came in the last few weeks announcing measures that first disassembled, we expected these to be the correctional budgets. But, once again, it was the budgets of disappointment. Faced with that, we offer new proposals for a different model, for a new forest model, to unify and improve the fire prevention device and to support and expand the protection strips, as well as ambitious plans for regeneration. I'm done because I'm running out of time. In the replica we can talk more slowly. Finally, we present a set of proposals that represent an alternative, which represent it from a totally different attitude to that which the People's Party has in this legislation and in these budgets: in the face of abandonment and resignation in the face of precariousness, proposals to help those who are worst going through it; in the face of the dismantling of public services, recovery with capitals, indeed, compensating what has happened in this country in the last decade; in the face of improvisation, medium- and long-term planning; in the face of deregulation, intervention in the economy and in the country model; and in the face of the irresponsible attitude of those who understand Galicia as a mere administrative decentralisation, we make proposals from the capacity of self-government, commitment and trust, because since German nationalism we have committed and confidence with this country, with its people, with its ability and potential to write a different sheet in our history. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor. The truth is this morning I again reached boundaries in knowledge with this new gross domestic product variable in relation to the active population. I recognize that at lunchtime I was looking to see if I was missing anything, but no, it doesn't show up. It appears with the occupied population, which measures the productivity of the system. With the active population, this humble deputy did not find it. Then there was something else that was offensive to me — it seems to the President of Parliament not at that time — that was the "scarlet". There is a difference: this Member and the Socialist Group are not ashamed of anything done or written by President Zapatero. I recommend that you review the articles published in La nouvelle Rioja by Mr. Aznar and the article of March 4, 1983 published in El Faro de Vigo by Mr. Rajoy. I don't know if you're going to be ashamed, but I recommend that when you use disparate words talking about government presidents, look at your own backpack. [[Applause]] And here we're going to talk, of course, about the cross-sectional amendment, but we're going to talk, above all -- I have a certain vocation for the apostolate, right and left -- I'm going to talk about a paragraph of Mr. Rajoy's article. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's too short. He says: "Man is essentially unequal, not only from the time of his birth but from the very moment of fertilization"—textually. That's what I want to talk about, Counselor. I want to talk about equality and inequality. I want to talk about the work that politics has to do to avoid inequality; which, of course, is not a biological fact, is a social fact. I think we should all agree with this question, but, in any case, if someone doesn't agree, it would also be good if I told you here. It would be all right, Counselor, if I had told you here. You, in your three long speeches this morning, said not once — or at least I didn't listen — the words "poor" and "poverty." If he said so, excuse me, but the truth is, I didn't hear him. For a moment I felt like I was talking about Denmark. I'm sure a Danish economic advisor will be aware that there are poverty situations in Denmark. Whether a German advisor or a member of the German Government is not, or if he is, to hide him, he seems politically regrettable, politically regrettable! Today you also refuted some data provided by the spokesman of the Socialist Party — Mr. Leicega does not need to be placed on the floor, but I want to say this because it gives the feeling, listening to you, that you invented them — of which, by the way, the source is the Bank of Spain — a second quarter of 2017. So that's the data. You've talked about disalignment of companies. Look at the disembarkation, Mr. Counsellor: "Wet of dividends," in the newspaper Expand, unsuspecting. Yeah, don't laugh. Of course, it's not true that misalignment milonga as a fundamental element of the drop in credit. The fundamental thing is that dividend rain goes to business owners. By the way, "Fifty companies will divide 6 billion euros by making use of the end of the fiscal year." Therefore, it's good that the release as a speech. It can paste because the word is so sophisticated, and so we believe it. But, look, that's not the fundamental reason why credit to companies has not just started, when the credit bill from the European Central Bank is as open as it is. Do you know what the reason is, Counselor? You know it perfectly well, it's a rhetorical question. The reason is that companies don't get credit because consumer expectations, with an ungrowthing salary, don't grow either. That's why, Counselor, you can't tell us stories of disalignment, because that's not the economic reason for this matter. In this general context of a kind of fake news, but in Welsh, the Socialist Group presents an amendment to the whole that affects the global content of budgets and transfers credit between the different sections. We mobilize approximately 550 million euros of income, of which 370 are new incomes and the other 180 are changes in budget shares. In fact, I want to start with the specific data of these amendments, although then I want to talk a little more about the country to which they apply. Because, of course, it makes sense that budgeting is an ethereal administrative entity that has no relation to a social, economic and political reality, and that would therefore serve Estonia, Galicia, and I don't say to Zimbabwe because I don't want to get to parody either; but of course, with very little connection — in my opinion — to the reality of this country. And indeed — if you have said so — you have not been able to speak of the poor, but you have recognized — that you do not always recognize in the Government what you are part of — that the problem of employment and the problem of the labour market is the central problem of economic activity. It seems obvious, but — I insist — there is some biological component — Rajoy said — that prevents me from recognizing that question. I therefore insist that the question of employment is fundamental to us. Where would we get it or where would that increase in income come from? Well, basically, a more progressive and more redistributive income policy. And indeed, we believe that it is still possible that those higher incomes, both from work and from capital, have some tax rates to apply higher. The same way we understand the theme of heritage. What you said doesn't seem reasonable to us. Respecting inheritance, yes; but inheritance is an anthropological concept and we are talking about wealth. In economic terms, I refuse to speak of inheritance. I want to talk about income and wealth, which is about what basically makes a tax system, or what we think we should make a tax system. And, indeed, the same on the subject of inheritance taxes, money transfers and documented legal acts, with realistic forecasts in the collections, because those you presented for the whole year 2017 were achieved about August this year. Finally, when you intervened, for a moment I thought I was on the US Federal Reserve and was giving us a class, a mix of Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke. But then I realized that I was in Santiago de Compostela and that, well, I wasn't so much of a class. It was a class... finally, normal. And, therefore, I think you can collect more than you have more. I don't care what it's called wealth tax or what it's called. We know perfectly well that the 41 Members — legitimate, I insist — of the People's Party will vote against this. It is basically the political message that we must combat inequality with the cooperation of society as a whole, with the active cooperation of society as a whole. I think it's a message that, of course, the socialists keep, and I think it's different from the right on the left. I insist, it is necessary to differentiate them. So there's also environmental cost taxes — and I know what you're going to say, I'm going to put the sale before the wound — which are likely to be transferred to consumer prices. Hey, what's politics for? To avoid that, right? Of course! They are indeed likely. But what we are talking about is that, through politics, through this little detail that the laws are changed in parliaments, because they are prevented from transferring, by way of price, those taxes. And we have an example — in this case not with taxes on large surfaces but with the environment — of the courts that end up saying that it is necessary to transfer the various energy environmental canons — wind and water-encouraged — to consumers. Well, it's a real perversion of what the philosophy of fighting climate change would have to be. But it's also true that we can't expect miracles on the right there. Well, it's about planting, it's about changing the laws if the laws lead us to say that they don't pay who pollutes but they pay those who suffer the effects of pollution. I don't think I'm particularly subversive. On the subject of large commercial areas, look, we had to listen here as the People's Party was scandalized by this tax. Home!, it was true that the president of the lobby was Mr. Arias Salgado, former Minister of the Aznar Government — by the way — one of the few who is neither accused nor investigated nor in prison — which has any merit. And, of course, you said with a big scandal that that tax was intolerable. For he has just said the head of the European Union's lawyers that he is perfectly capable of being implemented by different states or by different autonomous communities or regions. Of course, it depends on which side you stand, and that is what, Counselor, you regrettably — in my opinion — of course, did not talk too much. Strengthen the fight against tax fraud. Of course, here we also have another element, let's say, of social capital. Man, I understand that for a government supported by a party like the People's Party—that I will not say it's the most corrupt in Europe so they don't get angry, no, I don't say it, because there's no ranking; therefore, I don't say it—... of course, there's no ranking and therefore... because the other day some fellow or someone said it and there was a sort of generalized algalada. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I'm not going to say it's the most corrupt thing in Europe. I'm going to say that's what the prosecutor just said: it's absolutely proven that it's financed by box "b." Well, of course, asking for fiscal responsibility, asking citizens to meet their tax obligations, I understand that it's difficult for them. I understand that every time they leave these trips to Panama, Curaçao, etc. —which seems like a kind of tourist cruise—and relevant members of the People's Party appear, it is very difficult to tell citizens they pay. But I think it is essential to strengthen the fight against tax fraud. We also believe that we should make the most of the allowed deficit. The truth is, we thought it was more important — from an anticyclical perspective — when GDP fell or stagnated. True, at that moment they didn't because in the advertising campaign Mr. Feijóo demanded to be the most fulfilling, he was the most orthodox of liberal economic orthodox, but, in any case, there is a margin there that could also be taken advantage of. Then there's a reduction in unproductive expenses: advertising and propaganda; we've seen the fires in the last moments, but I remember... yes, the fires. I was here in 2006 -- I would talk after the fires -- and I would never talk about dead or photographs, but, as I've heard so many times, I have to admit that it costs me not to do it explicitly. And explicit means not only with photographs of the president of the board—now President of the board, which is worth it!—but also with photographs of the car burned in a crate at Fornelos de Montes and Cotobade. That's it! [[Applause]] That outrageous photograph has been taught in this Parliament. I don't know if any of the Members who were at that time remember. Me, perfectly. So, indeed, this propaganda of fires, the systematically propaganda of innovation, the propaganda of this public hospital in Vigo that filled every Vigo of cartels; at last... that kind of detail. Then, on the other hand, non-material expenses. Listen, if you really keep that job power, can you explain to me why this systematic increase in non-material expenses? Because, of course, I just don't understand. It would not be better, when they speak after laws on the axillization of industrial implantation, that rather than non-material spending would strengthen public inspection services and public services that allow them to be installed from the environmental, cultural heritage perspective, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Probably, it looks like me. And, of course, these funds, these EUR 550 million, are mainly aimed at the areas we've been talking about, the areas that have to do with equality, Counsellor. And, of course, job creation, in different forms, in different programs, affecting different target populations: women, long-term unemployed, unemployed people of a certain age with a very low level of qualification. You spoke and gave us another theory about the execution of employment funds. What is true is that the training funds for employees in 2015 did not exist. I don't know if it was a problem in Brussels, Madrid, Santiago de Compostela or the United Nations. What I know is that they literally didn't exist, Counselor. So it would be good if they existed, especially because we all know that one of the serious problems of not increasing productivity too much, despite the fall in wages, is because the qualification of these low-wage workers is extremely difficult. And without training programmes, neither public nor businesses themselves, it's materially impossible, Counselor. I don't know if you have any miraculous solutions, you or the economic and industry advisor. I'm sure he'll get away with it. Then, of course, health and education, for that reason I told you earlier, because we should all be equal and have the same opportunities — despite Mr Rajoy's article. On the subject of poverty and inequality, in the Dependency Act, in housing, about 120 million euros. We believe that we must progressively go rationalizing to achieve a vital minimum income. We understand that in the Dependency Act it is good that we are told that in 2009 there were fewer heeded than at present. Actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u51	...because the law has been implemented. And in 2005, there were none, and in the year 1430, neither, because the laws are progressively implemented; it's a fact — I think — of easy understanding for a medium intelligence, there's no need... at last, the US federal reserve. Then also a game for the fight against fires, for the fight or for the enforcement of that law of the year 2006 that you fired and now claim. Welcome, welcome, we're fine, but he needs funds. It's a fact that's also important. Then, on the other hand, measures of impulse and economic growth. Indeed, on the subject of innovation, this year there is an important increase. I was the first to recognize him at the councillor's appearance; we left a very low level because the initial reduction was a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u52	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u53	...—end, Mr President—but this is what allows, of course, that increase in productivity and competitiveness, which will actually allow us to sit on a path of high wages or rising wages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u55	...that they really fight against equality and that they don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u56	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u57	...we are obliged to raise it year by year in their budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u59	Good afternoon. It's November 20th and for me, for 40 years, it's a day when I get up in the morning, and that's why I'm not going to let the smile on my face erase some comments... - No, but I know what I'm saying. - And I'm not going to let the smile on my face erase Mr. Martínez using unacceptable expressions in this Parliament, of which the smallest is that of "imperence." [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, in any case, as I can't figure out all of what he said, I'm going to focus on two more, before I get into the subject. One is this inflation, because it's hard to understand that the Fairy advisor doesn't understand the difference between nominal and real. When someone wants to compare a quantity in 2018, they can't directly compare it to a quantity of 2009, because 100 euros in 2009 is not 100 euros in 2018. In Galicia, EUR 100 in 2009 is EUR 88 in 2018, according to inflation estimates. When you don't understand these concepts, it's very difficult to have expertise in making budgets. And something that has to do with it... I'll take advantage of it, as Mr. Puy interrupts me, to address him in the sense that we must be able to read the papers. [[Murmurs.]] I've got here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u61	I have here an IGE report on price developments in Galicia. And that report says that the average annual annual inflation from January to October in Galicia is at 2.23%. And I'm going to tell you something else: that the estimate that IGE makes is that by the end of 2017, the average inter-annual IPC is going to be 2.1%. It's the IGE. Then I'll leave you the underlined paper in the circle where the data is so that we can understand each other. The second idea... — November 20 — has to do with this debate on employment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, I will then send you the report just published by BBVA-Ivie today where the evolution of employment occurs in all the autonomous communities of the state. And it turns out that at the rate of variation of the occupied population, in the first quarter of the year 2007-third quarter of the year 2017, as a percentage, Galicia is the penultimate autonomous community. We're only better than Extremadura. And in that same report it calculates a recovery rate in which it says — since 2014, when it changed the economic cycle — how much employment has evolved in all the autonomous communities. And do you know what position we occupy, Mr. Martínez? The penultimate in the queue — BBVA-Ivie Foundation, published today. Well, let's get on with it. It took us ten years, ten years of pain... someone said that we didn't accept the crisis. That we, the two defiances, didn't accept that there was a crisis? That we who fought against the dismissal of thousands and thousands of workers said there was no crisis? But what are they talking about? We are in the House precisely to represent those affected by the crisis, exactly for that. [[Applause]] It took us ten years! We go back to the same level of GDP that we had in 2008, and that forces us, Counselor, to answer the question you asked today for the morning Luis Villares. Why, if we have the same level of wealth as before we fall into recession, we have to live worse? More specifically, if the GDP level of 2018 is going to be the highest in our history, why are the living and working conditions of the majority of our country significantly worse than we had in 2008? And let me tell you something that I also have here: the Greek economy is growing to 3%. Do you know what's the average historical rate of growth in the Greek economy for 55 years? Do you know what the average is? Three percent. Do you know what's the only period in which the Greek economy didn't grow to 3%? Between 2009 and 2014. The only thing that makes the Greek economy, GDP, is to recover a normality that Troika's austerity policies have exactly cancelled. The counsellor in his speech contrasts the macroeconomic framework with the social and labor reality in which citizenship lives. "Happy Arcadia," said the colleague of the Socialist Party, in which citizenship is not recognized. You know that 93% of citizens consider the situation of the Spanish and German economy to be regular, bad or very bad. And they're right, because getting out of recession isn't getting out of the crisis, because economic growth isn't moving the greatest social well-being, because there's growth, but, as the fellow BNG said, there's no recovery, because we don't give from macro to micro, from statistics to people's reality. We have the same level of wealth, but it's worse distributed. We lose those we earn salaries, which are the vast majority of society, and they earn business income, as Abel Losada well explained. It's so simple, it's so unacceptable! We have the same level of wealth, but with less employment, more precarious jobs and worse wages, the same GDP, but much worse distributed, and that's why we have a society, Counsellor, which is more unfair, more unequal, has more poverty, has less labour rights, has less work, has more unemployment, we have more unemployment; we have low wages and greater job insecurity. That's the reality that most of the country lives in. And when you're unable to recognize it, it explains why it makes the economic and budgetary policy it does. It's an unacceptable situation that has to be blamed; of course, labour reforms, which cut rights to impose wage devaluation and extreme precariousness. And then, the policies of compulsive austerity and cuts, which greatly reduced the ability of the public to try to correct inequality in the primary distribution of income. The 2018 budgets are a clear demonstration of this neoliberal strategy of reducing the weight of the public in the economy and in society. It's true that 2.9% are growing and that the board will have 266 million euros more than in 2017. But only in nominal terms, because inflation is at 2% and therefore the actual growth in the budget is going to be below 1%, and that's a disappointing, limited growth that doesn't even serve to begin to correct the brutal fall in public spending that has occurred since it began applying compulsive austerity. In real terms — real, advisor, real! — the homogenised expenditure in 2018 will be only 100 million euros higher than in 2017, but it will still be 2,234 million euros below the actual executed — councilman, executed, not budgeted — in 2009. And here we have to ask the initial question again with another content corresponding to the parliamentary debate. Why, if we have the same level of GDP, is public spending 23% lower in real terms? Why? With the current rate of increase in the budget, we would have to wait until 2030 to recover the level of real expenditure prior to the recession in absolute figures. Even more, if we continue to govern the People's Party, we will never recover the level of expenditure in terms of GDP, because the reduction of public expenditure is not a coincidence, it is not a side effect of the crisis, it is not even a collateral damage; it is a goal sought in a way premeditated by the Rajoy Government and the Feijó government. It is written in the recent budget programme — it is in Spanish — for 2018 which has just presented Montoro to the European Commission, the Central Government undertakes to reduce the weight of public expenditure in Spain from 41.2 % of GDP to 40.6%. For those who are not numbers, it may seem little, but these six tenths of GDP are EUR 7.278 million, which are by chance focused on reducing health and education expenditure. This is a premeditated strategy because the crisis was used to impose a profound change in the social model, to break the social contract; a model dominated by inequality, precariousness and deterioration of the welfare state, to reduce the weight of the public in the economy and in society. And that's why the cycle's accist phase that started in 2014 is not being used for us to recover from the cuts. Conversely, the strategic orientation of the board is to continue cutting spending under a new formula. It will no longer apply nominal cuts, we recognize it; the model is that spending will grow below nominal GDP and therefore every year less wealth, less wealth, public management, public services and social protection are allocated each year. You were a little wrong this morning, I think, but I came to recognize him. He said that the board budget is going to increase by 2.9%, but that nominal GDP is going to rise by 4.2%. Budget, 23.9%; GDP, 4.2%; that's called restrictive budget, because it grows less than the country's wealth. And this is the logic of the new stage of cuts: that spending will increase less than GDP. So, year after year, it will accumulate a gradual cut, but replaced in time, less visible, but just as perverse. The budget of the year 2018 consolidates the cuts applied in the period 2009-2014, giving it continuity to reduce the weight of the public. We say no to that, and we propose an alternative way to the amendments we tabled. In Galicia, we are suffering from an ideologically conservative fiscal policy, neoliberal, which has been applying for years a defiscalization of capital incomes over large estates, causing a double effect: a fall in collection and a redistribution of tax charges, where we pay the most employees. By saying this in a sentence: less taxes on wealth and more VAT, and, in part that doesn't reach, cuts or debts. In front of resignation, clippings, permanent adjustment, we demand an ambitious position. Galicia — nor Spain — has no problem with over-expenditure, but on the contrary, our problem is the problem of lack of income; and, therefore, this fifth year of the accist phase of the economic cycle is the time to reorient the budgetary strategy. In this sense, we present an amendment, which has two basic lines of action: firstly, to increase the level of expenditure by EUR 500 million, acting on the different channels of revenue; and secondly, to redistribute the government's expenditure, changing its priorities by an amount of EUR 268 million, towards social and productive expenditure. How do we defend the EUR 500 million increase in income? Well, acting on four axes: First, an increase in resources from the State, acting on the system of self-financing and also on instruments for territorial rebalancing. Secondly, a package of tax measures aimed at increasing the collection, acting on the tax figures that already exist and creating new ones. Third, a selective and weighted minority of the current level of profits, bonuses and tax exemptions. And fourth, strengthening the inspection plan and fighting tax fraud. In addition to both amounts, what In Marea proposes is to allocate EUR 768 million to 18 priority programmes in order to implement an economic policy that drives growth and transforms it into real economic and social development, based on the productive economy, which transfers the greatest wealth to the well-being of citizenship, combating inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. Eighteen programmes of which I will only mention three: an anti-poverty and social exclusion plan, with 160 million euros and 26 concrete measures to combat one of our country's main lacres, 700,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion; an emergency plan for the use of anti-precautionary measures, with 68 million euros to respond to the 187,000 unemployed people, combating the work precariousness already affecting half the working class of Greece; a plan to improve and guarantee public and universal health, with 115 million euros and 49 concrete measures; a plan to improve and recover public education, with 67 million and articulated in 14 concrete proposals. I'm done. Budgets for 2018 presented by Junta are disappointing, restrictive, mediocre, antisocial, continuist and neoliberal; they do not serve to improve the life of citizens, nor to start to turn them around to cuts, or to boost economic activity and regain employment. And that's why In Marea rejects them with roundness and presents this amendment to the whole. The economy has come out of recession, Counselor; it's time for society to get out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u62	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Intervention by the Galician Council. The councilman of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. After discussing and confronting the general lines of budgetary policy in the morning, it's nice to see also how much of the interventions, during the minutes that in a free and legitimate way everyone used, also now in the afternoon, reopening certain debates, I don't know whether it's so much against the Government but against the spokespersons who intervened in the morning according to each group... call me a little attention that way too, but freely everyone can do what they consider. One more year showed the difference in model — obviously, and so we recognize it, we have nothing to hide — between the German Government and the opposition groups. We are returning to the debate at this time to exchange the views of the transversal amendments. I will try to explain the reasons why the Executive does not consider their proposals, and I will even talk about issues that have not been introduced here by the various spokesmen of the groups, because it is the way to consider how much work the different collaborators of each group have done to present these types of proposals. This refusal — I think it is right — does not obey any apriorism, but either its formulations are not likely to lead to practice or to include them in the budget would mean to leave out others that are necessary. I'll try to make them concrete. One more year opposition groups want to raise taxes or include shares that we don't have the guarantee to receive to have more income. The German Government is against both options. We prefer, when we can, to lower taxes and, in any case, to avoid raising them. We prefer to include the income we're sure to perceive. Nor can we support amendments on certain impossible assumptions. I'm referring to those who detach finalist resources that must be used in concrete action and that cannot be intended for what you formulate. With some others we might agree, but it is not the cost of withdrawing funds and departures to develop actions that we consider necessary. I'll try to make it concrete, too, and put some examples. I also tell the BNG voicer clearly that we are totally against raising EUR 135 million from taxes to the Greeks. BNG wants the Greek in particular to pay 14.3 million more for the IRPF, according to my calculations, updated by the Galician Tax Agency. BNG wants the Greeks to pay €37 million more for the estate tax. BNG wants the Greeks to pay 45 million euros more for the inheritance tax and BNG wants to create a new tax on large surfaces to raise, in principle, 30 million euros. Obviously, the Galician Union takes the path contrary to the BNG. Let's keep the biggest downside of history right now, as I indicated this morning. Now there are more than 144,800 Greeks and Greeks who haven't paid for receiving an inheritance, and we want the vast majority of the Greeks to remain unpaid for inheritance taxes; in addition to paying less for the IRPF, as noted in the statement that all of us have just done in this exercise with respect to the past. We maintain the zero tax strategy in rural areas. In this case, some 25,560 Greeks have benefited today, and we want to continue to increase the number of beneficiaries. For this reason, for 2018, we include new incentives, with three clear objectives: to mobilize wasted land and rustic goods and to stimulate rural activity; to revitalize and enhance the situation of current historic centres; and also to encourage the promotion of industrial soil sale. Now I'll explain to you why we refuse the tax rate that BNG makes. On the proposal of new sections of the IRPF for incomes above EUR 120,000, by the income structure we have in Galicia would have a much lower impact than in other territories of Spain. In addition, this raise would be mainly supported by income from work, because they account for 83% of the total tax base. With regard to the proposal to raise taxes on property tax, it must be borne in mind that Galicia is one of the communities that has exercised its regulatory powers in this tax and has increased the state rate by 20% already in the 2013 budgets in a proposal also agreed with the PSdeG. It's a tax that only taxes the highest incomes because it only affects declarants with a wealth greater than 700,000 euros. Obviously, playing the minimum exemptions would lead to equipment that would record the high incomes and also the averages and reduce the income available for private consumption in Galicia, and of course we will not suppress the modifications of the inheritance tax, since the same were eliminated in 99% of cases between direct heirs up to 400,000 euros. We seek, as I said this morning, to maintain integrity to the family heritage and the family's economic capacity, which happens to lose on occasion the income that approached the deceased person. We understand that if the estate of the deceased is greater, the economic capacity of the family is sufficient to cope with the payment of the tax. And I've also explained the case of Andalusia this morning, however, we have torn our clothes. With regard to the proposal to create tax on large areas, until now the legality of its implementation has been questioned, and despite the pronouncement of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union, by prudence, we believe that we should wait for the court to rule on this matter, in order to assess any decision at the time, but they also know that there are only three autonomous communities at this time that present this type of taxation. As for the minorities, I'll explain why it can't be done as far as they propose from the BNG. Some are simply impossible to implement, such as amendments that reduce appropriations financed mainly from European funds and that aim to allocate non-eligible actions, or that reduce credits financed from final transfers by the State for actions totally different from the purpose for which they are authorized at sectoral conferences. In other cases, they propose reductions in the appropriations for operating costs, which would prevent the proper development of the assigned tasks. They also seek to reduce any staff costs. It is surprising that year after year they continue to ask for reduced credit for potential staff when in 2018 it will still be much less than you spent on the bipartisan government. As I see that it is necessary, I remind you of the figures, which are eloquent, because there is also a repeat of what other parliamentary groups advocate, and so the explanation serves everyone. High-level spending is 40% lower than budgeted expenditure in 2009 by the Bipartite. This means we save every year, from that, 3.6 million euros. The spending on possible cabinet staff, more than 30% below the last year of the two-party government, we saved 2.2 million euros, and we went at least on our way. In total, therefore, we saved EUR 5.8 million in relation to 2009. I insist that at the cost of high office and eventual personal BNG should not do demagogy, because history says that when they have the real possibility of ruling they do everything contrary to what they ask in the opposition. They also insist on reducing costs in parts that we spend less than half the average of the previous Government, and again I'm going to give up-to-date data: spending on meetings, conferences and courses, down nearly 60%; spending on office materials, down 50%; spending on protocol care, down by more than 52 percent; spending on advertising and propaganda, down nearly 62 percent. I believe that with these examples it is quite clear that this government's shift of priorities in relation to the one in which BNG was involved. Again, in the opposition they ask the opposite of what they did in the government. And let's see now how they increase their proposed expenditure. They're asking for a supposed public service recovery plan. In order to finance it they withdraw appropriations from housing appropriations, while at the same time they criticize the lack of housing resources. I think it is not very coherent to propose, on the one hand, to withdraw from housing, fund the intended Health Plan and at the same time try to increase in housing. It's something that's not very consistent; in addition to withdrawing matches for this, which, as I said before, are finalists, and even European funds. They demand a culture boost program. It could be valued, but the problem is that in order to finance it, nearly 1.4 million euros are withdrawn from the modernization of the Public Employment Service, which is also the final funds of the State, so they cannot be used for the other purpose. Even if we could, we wouldn't withdraw nearly EUR 1.5 million to modernise the Public Employment Service; you believe we won't withdraw them. And then there are other proposals for increased spending that exceed the credits that diminish. I'll just give you an example: you want 18 million for college scholarships, and you can only reduce your matches by 9 million. Why? Because they're the total credits they have. I think there are sufficient reasons to refuse your proposals. I also want to tell the PSdeg voicer that we refuse to raise taxes to the Greeks in EUR 114 million, as proposed by the Socialist Group. [[Murmurs.]] We don't want the Greeks paying 35 million more for the IRPF and we don't want the Greeks paying 40 million more for the heritage tax. We also refuse to create a tax on large surfaces to raise 5 million euros. We also don't want the Greeks paying 34 million more for environmental taxes, and we don't see significant increases in revenue by 75 million euros in successions, 40 in capital transmissions and documented legal acts and 20 for improving the management of the fight against fraud. Let's go somewhere. As for the rise of the IRPF and wealth tax, as well as the creation of a tax on large surfaces, I refer myself to my comment made to the BNG. As for the environmental tax package that they propose, to collect 26 million euros, about installations that affect the environment, such as telephony, telematics, transport and electricity lines, we do not know — and really believe I'm not here in the plan... — how they calculate the amount charged to this measure of 18 million euros. I say this because in this tax, which already has some autonomy, the quota varies between 700 and 1,200 euros per kilometre of high voltage line. With these guys, of what there is in Spain, the collection would range from 1 to 2 million euros, so it doesn't seem very advisable to create a tax on this county and not the 18 that you calculate. The numbers don't come out as far as the normal is concerned, in our surroundings, only in comparative terms. In addition, and in view of the latest rulings of the Supreme Court, it must be assessed whether it is appropriate to fix tax figures that can be passed on to the final consumer. We must think about it very much, and above all about what we're talking about. As for the tax on the use of single-use plastic bags, we also don't know how to calculate the impact of 2 million euros. This tax, which was created in Cantabria in 2011, was dropped a year later. In Extremadura, the Economic and Social Council considered its implementation to be negative. The main problems with this proposal are the high costs that it would have for both the Administration and the trader or consumer in relation to their collection. Besides, it would also move to the consumer and increase the purchase bag. As for the tax on the emission of harmful gases to the atmosphere to raise 6 million euros, we also do not know how to calculate this amount, besides not knowing what these harmful gases are intended to be recorded. At present, in Galicia, there is an own tax which imposes polluting substances on the atmosphere, which has been applicable since 1996, the air pollution tax, which is very concretely charged with nitrogen oxides and sulphur. The extension of the taxable amount of this tax to other substances that make up other autonomys could not raise the EUR 6 million they propose. As for the rise of current engravings for the use of encouraged water or air pollution, to collect 8 million, you should know that, when it comes to tax taxes, it's not up to you for purely tax reasons. As for the Socialist Party's intention that we increase our income forecast by 75 million more by collecting succession tax, 40 by documented legal acts, a small disquisition, really. I would like to clarify to you that you are based on doing this calculation on net recognised rights, and in that amount amounts are also included from previous years, either because the Tax Administration has granted an allowance or income fractionation, or because that income is suspended or because it is in voluntary payment period, which, as established by the autonomous regulations, is annulled at the end of the exercise. And on the alleged 20 million more for an improvement by collection management and reinforcement of the fight against tax fraud, it estimates a joint income increase for both proposals that don't specify separately. In the table of variations on the rise in the following incomes, it impacts on the concept "multiples and tax penalties", 20 million. If you're referring to this as an improvement in collection management, I would like to stress to you that as I've already told you in the case of succession taxes and donations, one thing is the amounts of net recognized rights, published every quarter, and another the final liquidation of the year by the termination cancellations. As far as the fight against tax fraud is concerned, this government has been driving it very clearly since 2009, and has reinforced it with the creation of the Galician Tax Agency. Only last year did Atriga raise 141.5 million euros of undeclared debt, and reviewed nearly 280,000 self-liquidations from major taxes, 6% more than the previous year. Nor can we agree with your formulation of significantly increasing the splits corresponding to the finalist transfers of the state. I want to explain to you that it must be taken into account that the appropriations that were budgeted correspond to the forecasts based on the incomes of the last exercise, and that they will be adjusted according to the amounts resulting from the sectoral conferences, which, with greater or less fortune, I tried to explain this morning. Your Honor, it does not seem appropriate the increments that are put in the entrance tickets of the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo and Sergas, since it would not be a realistic budget but a purely voluntary one. On the decreases in the cost of office staff and non-material expenses, I'm sending it, of course, to what I explained to BNG, but they're still there, they're always going on every year. It seems, then, that you don't remember when they were ruling together and the possible staff costs were much higher. And the same thing I'm telling you about immaterial expenses, that we've reduced them to more than half, other minorities. Like BNG, the Socialists withdraw numerous shares corresponding to finalist or European funds for other purposes which are not appropriate; therefore, they are impossible to apply. They even reduce the assigned match for the canon of high-tech equipment at Vigo Hospital. But what did you do to them at Vigo's hospital? [[Murmurs.]] The resources for tourism promotion and the preparation of Xacobeo are also diminished. Obviously, we cannot agree with this formulation. They also reduce supportable mobility games for the demand transport management system. Similarly, we do not agree to reduce the budget for connection to the San Cibrao das Viñas polygon in Ourense. They're going down in an amendment to approaches to commercial innovation and at the same time they're asking for increased resources for technological innovation in small trade. But what are we left with? On the other hand, they also draw funds for demographic dynamisation actions. Here we have a huge disagreement with you. Demography is one of the main challenges of the country, and, whenever we can and do, we devote more resources to this issue, which is so complicated and complex, as they well know. At the Voice of En Marea, I also want to reiterate that although you haven't talked much about the subject, because, of the sixteen minutes, you've been thirteen or fourteen with a somewhat more generic program, which I thank you for... I do think you can always learn... yes, yes, even how things shouldn't be done; not so much as what you say. [[Laughter]] And besides, without audacity, you don't have to get mad, I'm so crazy sometimes, and even so loud, I don't say no. [[Applause]] We will not agree to raise taxes to the Greeks in almost 200 million euros and to include 300 million euros more in budgets without a legal basis. Even though that's from the legal base and some friends of En Marea... well, I'm starting to understand, uh! [[Laughter]] Let's start with tax increases. About the 20 million more in the IRPF, the 20 more in the heritage tax, the 52 more in the environmental damage caused by certain encouraged water flows, the 4 more to create the large surface tax -- it's not the same as the PSOE calculated, it seems, the Block -- and the 12 more by the alleged reinforcement of the inspection plan and fight against fraud, let me also refer me to what I just told the other groups. Let's see the rest of the tax proposals. Over the additional EUR 10 million for an increase in the estimate of the collection resulting from the deposit tax share in credit institutions, here is proposing an increase of 50%. Moreover, you do not point out on the basis that this proposal would be affected, that it could come or by a rise of types — that it would not be possible, because even if your collection is given, as this government had requested, it is a state tribute on which the community has no regulatory competence — or, secondly, on the basis of a faulty estimate in question. In this case, the forecast is based on the payment for the year 2016 account; 50% of the total settled in July and on the forecasts existing at the rate of savings of the Greek homes. About 1.5 million more to create the tax on empty floors, the initiatives of Catalonia or the Basque Country in that regard know that they were the object of a resource of unconstitutionality by the state; and we are still awaiting the judgment, it is true. In addition, what I remind you is that in the preliminary draft law on rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal of Galicia — currently in processing — the canon of the buildings declared in state of abandonment by the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo is regulated. The income of this future canon will be used for rehabilitation actions in the Resurbe area, where the properties declared abandoned are located. As for the $500,000 plus the high-contained beverage tax in sugar, they only cite the economic impact, but they do not propose any model of taxation. In this regard, I would like to remind you that in Catalonia — who approved it last March — there has been both the primary sector and the food, beverage and food processing industry, and the distribution and restoration industry, a presentation of a contentious remedy against it; that is to say, it was not only the Government of the State. Moreover, the Government of the State has announced that it will regulate this tax, so failure, as we all ought to know properly, of the regulations... taxes that establish autonomy cannot fall on taxable facts recorded by the State. And we would have to add these famous 73 million euros more to the elimination of tax benefits in succession tax and 5 million more in the IRPF for this same reason. They should clarify what tax benefits they want to eliminate in succession and to whom, the children who inherit from their parents, are persons with disabilities, are transmissions that favor intergenerational transfer? Or at the IRPF, do you help by birth?, do you help by large families? Which one do they propose to reduce those millions that I had previously commented on — that are not so few —? They also mix the accounts of the total tax benefits and of the specifics of the Autonomous Community itself. Those coming from state legislation cannot be regulated by our community. Let's now see your proposal to increase the income forecast by nearly 300 million without any legal basis. It is surprising that they made an increase in income corresponding to the financing system without indicating what should be increased by each of the resources that integrate it. They don't offer any details of the expected growth, why, for the IRPF, for the IVE, for the special taxes? And, of course, they do not establish what will be the specific behaviour of the Fund for the Guarantee of Basic Public Services, the Fund for Suficiency or the Cooperation Fund; all funds that make up the current financing system. Similarly, they do not determine the actual level of investment that is used for the basis of the calculation of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, since it depends on the expenditure that the State reserves in its budgets, which is currently not even approved — I have a guessing act that should be done by its lordships. In contrast, in the project approved by the German Government, each of these resources is related to the behavior of the variables known to date. Thus, we took into account the collection data corresponding to 2016 and the data known until August 2017; in addition, the forecasts of deliveries as of the year 2018 and the corresponding liquidations of the financing system for 2016, which will be perceived as the next exercise and which were carried out in accordance with the interim communication made by the Ministry of Business at the end of July, once approved by Congress the non-financial expenditure ceiling for 2018. Let's also go to the games they want to diminish. Again, about the possible staff and high office, I refer to what has already been said to the voices of the other groups, if it is true that the members of En Marea at that time were not in the Bipartite, but to make some general explanation. They propose a reduction in shares for digitisation and innovation in the commercial and pemeta sectors. Do you really want us not to support the digital and innovative development of our productive tissue? They propose reductions in demand canon games. Do they intend to cover users with a fee for the use of certain routes — which they do not, on the other hand, specify —? They propose decreases in actions and promotions for the dissemination of the Way of Santiago and in the preparation of the Holy Year 2021 — they also coincide with some other group. What did Jacobeo 2021 do to them? There are also inconsistencies such as, for example, proposing reductions in funds financed from European funds for specific purposes, as I explained to them earlier, so that these money cannot be allocated to other countries. They propose to reduce all current spending credit from the City of Culture, but they do not propose, for example — which would be the correlation — the budget of the Foundation City of Culture; and the same as in the case of the Fundación Camilo José Cela; in addition to including errors in the allocation of departures. But you also have to admit that the only way to be right is to do nothing, and you do things, too, it's true, and that's what I say so much, I also have to recognize it. Or some other amazing assignment, let's go!, because for the 2017 budgets they included small amounts. The same scheme they had in these issues in 2017 they had in 2018, but all they do is multiply by 10. You don't seem to be doing very homogenous or realistic estimates of spending needs, apart from preaching that you do ask people what you really want, your needs, and then bring them to your budget. And even higher spending on intangible investments — which some groups have also referred to here — in more than 50 million euros! Other years they proposed to put them down. I think they should be clarified, and try not to repeat allocations that have already been included. And we've made a lot of mistakes, too, eh! but it's a correct level of review about what we're presenting. Finally, proposals that cannot be proposed. I'm going to finish. To summarize the proposals of the different groups, I would say that income-related amendments are impossible to implement because they are unreal; they are based on income that we do not have the guarantee to perceive. They respond to tax increases with unquantified impacts or that would cause excessive increases in some of these taxes or create new taxes on which there is no full legal certainty. And, on the side of expenditure reductions, they withdraw from final funds from the State, from European funds which cannot be used for other purposes, diminish or virtually remove items necessary for the proper functioning of any administration and which affect even the provision of services to citizens or withdraw resources from priority programmes as defined by this government. For all this, you will understand that we cannot accept such amendments, that in many cases they could not be applied and that in others they would affect our priorities, even the services that we must provide from the Autonomic Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u64	Thank you, Counselor. Non-amendant groups. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Counsellor, you spoke more of the cross-sectional amendments than your own authors. I believe that they are rightly ashamed of them; of course they did not present them probably because they are entrepreneurial — the amendments, I say —. They are clearly characterized by a lack of rigour, improvisation and absolute irresponsibility, which shows that they do not take this Parliament seriously. Look, a year ago in this same debate we told them that we understood what was happening to them, that we understood that they did not take the budgets seriously. The whole opposition was in a difficult situation, the legislation began, and many of you had not yet put together the hard election result of September 2016, which had just received everyone, of course, except the BNG, who was celebrating the worst result of their history. A year later, with a year of legislation already consumed, the opposition follows in the same line of expectation that a year ago, exactly the same. The BNG lost a year, in which its only roadmap was to copy point by point Catalan independence. And it has again shown us that his model for Galicia is social confrontation, that his model is the flight of companies — just like in Catalonia — and that his model is political instability. That's the model of the most veteran of the House in Wales. The Tides of Podemos argue; they discuss whether they have to do the same thing as the BNG. There is Judge Villares, who says that the law must be breached; there is Mr. Anton Sánchez, who says that the independenceists must be supported; and there is Carmen Santos, criticizing Mr. Villares and criticizing Mr. Sánchez, because they know that, as they go from nationalists, any day they call Madrid — prefix 91 — and apply to them 155, just as it happened to his Catalan companion. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And there are the socialists, who lost a year domestically in what is called primary; first, in the national — they always bet on the loser—; then, in the autonomics; and now they're with the provincials. Follow the circus; yes, sir. In short, we lived a year in which the opposition once again became too busy in its internal struggles to devote a single minute to making proposals for Galicia. Look, the great idea that this year's opposition presents to us is the same idea as last year, which is to curb taxes on the Greeks; that's your proposal. Among the three groups, it is estimated that they can remove the Greek from their pockets 500 million euros more. That's the model of the opposition, a new tax ruling to all the Greeks, which complement with more deficit, more debt, which will ultimately have to pay more taxes in the future. That's your model; that's the difference between the government and the opposition. While the opposition bets on a model of tax plundering — that's the model of these gentlemen — the Government bets on lower taxes, spend what it has, pay what it must and do not drag neither the present nor the future of Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, you're presenting some amendments that are cowardly amendments, little serious amendments, irresponsible amendments, and which show a very high degree of political cowardice. You don't dare do what's elementary for a ruler, that's to choose. They don't want to disgust anyone, and that's why they daren't be clear in their transvasion of games. In the amendments to the whole they were arranging with collection taxes invented — that was their model — or with invented transfers of the financing system. And in partial amendments they use another series of bullshit or tricks. First trick: getting the money out of the current expenditure, even if it's unrealistic; i.e. leaving the tips without a phone, taking the paper away, parking the cars... that's your model, stopping it all, that's what you'd like. According to trickery, removing revenue from entities without removing expenditure from entities. That's your model; you want to fund your new spending programs with money that go to Amtega or Infrastructure Agency projects, for example. But since you don't dare delete those projects where you have names and names, which is in the budget of those agencies, what you do is remove them from the board games where you make the corresponding transfer. So, as I told you, by setting them just one example, In Marea it takes 4 million euros of Amtega funds, which would go for investment and modernization of justice. I think it would be a good thing for Mr. Villares to explain it to his former comrades of the courts of Galicia. Look, there's a huge lack of rigour in the transversal amendments you're presenting. In order to govern, we need a number of characteristics, but there is one that we consider indispensable, which is rigour. Of course, you lack him, and the example is in your initiatives. They ask you to go down to zero for any staff that will help you provide the services in the different areas. They request that telephony or material costs are reduced to zero for the administration's operation. They ask you to go down to zero or spend maintaining computer equipment. They're asking for down to zero the expenditure on insurance and funds to be used to deal with judicial responsibilities. That's your model. Mr. Losada spoke: we, no. No, you guys, it's even worse. Look, the PSOE, as far as the Business Council is concerned, without going further, wants to reduce 5 million euros in a game that has only 4.5 million euros. Of course, that's multiplying bread and fish, Mr. Losada. That's what you know a lot, you've shown in your management history. And he asks that 1.5 million euros be reduced in a game that doesn't even exist. They have a little decency and withdraw their transversal amendments because, of course, of rigour and rigour, nothing at all. Madam Presas, you don't like the account of economic recovery, I regret it. He didn't talk about his amendments just, but he did talk about some things. Look, social spending. We are proud of our commitment to social spending. When you ruled, you spent 570 million euros on social spending. Year 2018, EUR 727 million. You will therefore have to recognize with us that this is a government more committed to social policy than its own; it is therefore undeniable. [[Applause]] You were talking about non-contributory pensions. We're serving non-contributory pensions €8.2 million. When you ruled, 5 million euros. We are one of the three autonomous communities that offers this complement of non-contributory pensions and, of course, it is the community that most invests in complementing non-contributory pensions. We're proud of that, just as we're proud of the increase in Galicia's social integration income, which we're saying 62.4 million euros. Do you know how much you used to do with that flaming vice president? People don't even remember him anymore. That flaming vice president of the Wellness owed 23 million euros, a third of what is being said today. Plan Back. Do you want us to copy to Portugal? Is that really what they propose, that we copy the model of Portugal in Galicia? Look, who needs the Plan Back is the BNG, no doubt about it. Many should not believe in this plan because last year they were asking for 100 million euros for Plan Back and this year they are asking for half, 50 million euros. What are we left with? Is there a problem? Do you have plans for the future for Galicia? Ladies and gentlemen, I think you should take this debate a little more seriously. Mr. Losada, of course, yes, "zapateraz": cut of 5% of the wages of all officials of Spain, "zapateraz!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You say you are not ashamed of Mr. Zapatero's legacy. He must be the only one in all Spain who is not ashamed, he must be the only one! You, who read much, recommend that he read that book of Mr. Solbes and that book of Mr. Miguel Sebastián. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] His name was The fake bonanza, of course. And he said, "We've got the pot." Well, that's what happened. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u67	...because, of course, after their passage through the Government of Spain, they left 3 million more unemployed. You may be very proud, very proud! Three million more unemployed! [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Lago, I fully understand your negationist speech. You're the main beneficiaries of the economic crisis, I don't know what's wrong with you. [[Murmurs.]] And you see in the recovery a threat to your own speech and to your political survival. You are a failed political project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u69	...a failed political project. And that's why they resist to acknowledge that today we're better than a year ago and that today we're better than two years ago because, of course, recovery is there. I don't know where you were when socialism ruled here, left 3 million unemployed, and that government spoke of "green shoots." Do you know where they were? They were quiet. And I'm asking you to be strict. You spoke of the annual inflation of the IPC, 1.5 % — I leave the President a report on 14 November. Inflation in Galicia is 1.5%. A little rigor! It's November 14th, Mr. President. So what we're asked to do is we're going back to 2009. You speak of 2009 with great nostalgia. What I have to tell you is that we, of course, are not willing. Do you want a fictitious budget that generates a hole of 2,500 million euros, which was the inheritance of that glorious Bipartite? We, of course, are unwilling. You stay with your nostalgia; of course, that's not our way. Our way is to keep moving forward with budgets that grow, with budgets that think about more social spending, that think about more education, about more well-being and also about more health. You go on like this. Of course, the opposition has a quite difficult role and, Counsellor, if these are the criticisms that apply to this budget, that they have to resort to these arguments, is that budgets should be very good and that's why they're so worried, as they were worried about a year ago when they weren't able to criticize absolutely nothing and made the hollow proposals they always make. Of course, the Greeks know where to put everyone. Your project is not that it didn't happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u71	...what you're talking about is that your project has no bearing on it and, of course, it has no future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u72	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica. Amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u73	Mr. Tellado, if you haven't listened, watch the video, watch the video. But you say we don't talk about budgets has noses! [[Applause]] Anyway, I'll basically focus on answering to the advisor, but so, to say a few questions, I'll get the attention that you're a voicer of a political party who's proud to have more applicants and people in need of the Risk now than before. If you think that's a positive sign, you'll see! [[Murmurs.]] But it is precisely that you are the government of improvisation, and social policy, unfortunately for all people who need it, is a good indicator, because it is so much hidden from that account of recovery that, for example, it is worth remembering that last year well that they underestimated the need for Risk that would be and it didn't take a month to modify budgets, and it wouldn't be the first or the second time they would do it all year round, precisely because there were more people who needed it. You estimated it downstairs to create an account that doesn't fit reality. [[Applause]] But, finally, you'll see, we already know that I'm more of the Mouse model than the model of listening to the opposition amendments, but that's what there is. By moving forward in this way, about the question that Mr. Martínez says of income, you continue with that litany of the greatest decline in history without taking into account the socio-economic situation of families and that in reality the policies of the People's Party are always the wolf disguised as sheep. And then we see how there are side issues in the economy that are going to be kept up, like, for example, this same week, we knew that energy tariffs are frozen again, and that creates more and more difficulties for families and creates added difficulties. In the meantime, you always make excuses because they're miscalculated, they're against the law... then, when you question the wind cannon, that's not a problem; when you talk about testing with new taxes, it's... As for the issue of minorities, I really believe that we should take over and deal with this with a little bit of seriousness, which is a fundamentally political, not technical debate. I'm convinced that even if we were to present an absolutely impeccable amendment... one year we should present an amendment to buy a package of sheets more to some council, and so you wouldn't be willing to talk, because that's the bottom line problem. The basic problem is that you underestimate and despise the opposition proposals because you have no desire for dialogue. [[Applause]] If you, Mr Martínez, are interested in a recovery plan for culture, because we are debating where to deal now with the partial amendments process so that that is possible. But you're just contemptuous. Then they take up some proposals, because I ask myself how many times the Members and Members of this bench voted against strengthening and providing resources to the Land Bank, and now they come, after the October fire strike, saying, "Alas, the land bank! —to set an example—and yet. [[Applause]] But, curiously so, you, when they were opposition—you know, they now accuse us of doing one thing in the government and another in the opposition, which is not true and for proof I return to this same example—what were they doing with the Land Bank? To say it was the Government who wanted to steal from the Greeks and the Greeks; that is, what they now say we want to do with our tax proposals. Anyway, it doesn't hold. What there is is a government that is at the forefront of dialogue and that is not interested in thinking about and talking about proposals, such as, for example, the strips of protection, which from a band say they are interesting and from another band then despise those proposals when they appear in writing. And yet, he mocks the amendments and we have nothing to discuss. Yes, I wanted to point to some other question. Both in this debate and in the previous one this morning, you criticized a lot that the opposition had referred to those executional data on 30 September, because in many cases they depend on subsidies, etc. But let's see, then, because you yourself referred both to this debate and to the previous one in 2016, because there is something that is more interesting than the execution data, which are the data of the budgetary changes, because, of course, of what you put on the paper to which there is then, there is a big difference. You have a mouse speaking, responding to another voice, to the demography, of that woe, my God!, the opposition cuts — we also do — parts of the demography to make its political proposals for amendments, such and which. Well, programme 712A, population fixing in rural areas. They made, through budgetary changes, a 27.46% cut. It's not like they don't run anymore, they cut, and so on, absolutely everything. And then what they do is they come here to despise the opposition proposals, which we put forward for such fundamental issues as, for example, industrial development, in which it didn't give us time to go into detail. While every 100 euros collect extractive companies, more than 80 goes outside our country, you refuse to open a serious debate on such issues as those we propose in our amendments. And so with absolutely everything, because it's the way to make a government that, as I've said before, not only has an absolute majority, but it has an absolute majority, with which it seems that we can't talk and that we can't talk about these transversal amendments either in the partials that we'll be discussing in the coming weeks. But in the end, the one who ends up losing is our country, because in time you realize that there are proposals that should indeed be taken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u75	...in consideration, as happened with the example I mentioned before and how it will go through many other issues with which, in the end, time ends up giving reason that there are also many of the issues that we put on the table that would be perfectly acceptable and negotiable by a government that had another attitude. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth, Mr. Tellado, had made the firm intention of addressing me solely to the counselor, but I recognize that I am overcome by desire. Look, it's a lie that we left the boxes empty, among other things, we left 60 billion euros in the Social Security box. What you're going to leave is the prisons full of in this country. That's what you're gonna leave! [[Applause]] No, no, that's what you're going to leave. Eleven government ministers Aznar or accused or in prison; 11 out of 14 or accused and investigated or in prison. Therefore, I think that, from looting, better not talk much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, non-contributory pension supplements, 8.2 million euros. When the government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño dedicated 10 million euros, Mr. Feijóo said they didn't come for bread and milk. Ten million euros didn't come for bread and milk. Now, nine years later, 8.2 million euros, with a level of poverty, of course, much higher. Counsellor, look, tax proposals on high-voltage electrical lines, medium-voltage, telephony companies, gas companies, we can discuss them, but we believe they have to pay taxes for that occupation of public space, because, among other things, in this rain of dividends say that the three that increase profitability are Endesa, Enagas and Red Electric. Don't you think that maybe it was all right to act on the social and economic needs of an important part of the population these companies paid more taxes? I don't know very well how, but I insist, I come here to talk about politics and... I very much appreciate the first-rate contributions of the Members of the People's Party, as always, I've never stopped learning about almost any subject. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] So that's a question. Another question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u78	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u79	...environmental topics, plastic bags and harmful gas emissions, etc. Listen, of course, all kinds of environmental taxes are important. I don't know how to implement it either, but it's important because, among other things, this is one of the few autonomous communities where we have begun with a strategy against climate change, at least the opposition Members have not yet met it. I don't know if Mr. Rajoy's cousin, who was a professor of Sevilla Physics, controls her. In any case, environmental taxes are therefore a central element, Counsellor. Look, you, who certainly had a considerable amount of time to expose your political positions — which unfortunately we do not have — of course said a lot of things, some of which we could even share. But it's very hard to argue with these "fake news" with systematic lies from... yes, yes, yes. I have here a Head of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs yesterday, of Mrs. Garrido Valenzuela—I will not speak of kinship, because I remember when we spoke about the sister-in-law of the President of the Parliament of Pontevedra and spoke of omertà. Then, there, in a free-will office, he was omertà; now the prime counsellor is state secretary and we all know that they are professional merits, it would only be missing! On the right are always professional merits. Freeze! [[Interruptions.]] Freeze! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u80	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u81	Look at them calling me things, but they never called me a machist! Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u82	Quiet. Quiet, please, quiet. I understand it's been a long time, but quiet. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u83	I just said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u84	No, don't repeat what you said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u85	...which, while in one case was omertà, in another, are professional merits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u86	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u87	In any case, what Mrs. Garrido Valenzuela says — I repeat, she will have a lot of professional qualifications, but she can't make a rule of three... I do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u88	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u89	He says, until now pensions don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u91	Yes, yes, of course I do. Either he doesn't know or he's lying. He says: Until now pensions have not lost purchasing power. Over the last two years, IPC plus 2.3%; pensions, 0.5%. I insist, I'm sure you can make a rule of four.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u92	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u93	And, finally, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u94	Thank you. Isn't it over yet? Well, go ahead and finish it, please. Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u95	I'm not withdrawing anything, absolutely.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u96	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u97	Counselor, you did...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u98	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Losada. I understand that we've been here for a while, but we're going to respect everything and we're going to finish this fill reasonably. So they don't interrupt anyone. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, please don't tell me who I'm asking for respect; among others, for you too. I ask respect for everyone, it's my duty. No, no... silence. [[Murmurs.]] That's it, not between you, Mr. Vega. And that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u99	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u100	Finish it, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u101	All right, if you leave me, president, I'll be right there. Mr. Trump has just said he's going to lower corporate taxes. Four hundred millionaires from the United States said: "Don't lower our taxes, invest in the American people. And that same day Chicago University said there's 4.5 million homeless Thursdays in the United States of America.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u103	You, Counselor, can't talk about the administrative state of what Mr. Trump was talking about, you have to talk about politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u104	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u105	As it is November 20th, I even have fun with Mr. Tellado's speeches. I'll be there for a second, Mr. Tellado... the Fairy Counsellor has some difficulty understanding this from the IPC... [[Murmurs.]] Could you stop the time, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u106	Quiet, please. Quiet, people can say what I have to do. Sorry! Silence! There will be appropriate compensation, don't worry. Silence! Well, give her a little more. Go on, Mr. Lago, carry on with your speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Councilman of Fairy has difficulty understanding that of the IPC, Mr. Tellado already understands it is more difficult. Mr. Tellado, you are right that in October the IPC is 1.5%, but, Mr. Tellado, as in January it was 3.1, in February of 3.3, in March of 2.7, in April of 2.8, in May of 2.1, etc., etc., the IPC's annual average is 2.23%. Mr. President said, Mr. Tellado's report... we got it! [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] October 14th. Counsellor, what is not financed by taxes is paid with cuts or debt, there is no more; what is not taxed or paid with cuts or debt, that is the difference, because we think that through taxes — and think of it, at last, many people who are not us, I hope even you — it is possible to redistribute wealth. That's why taxation has been created, to redistribute wealth, because we can make them pay more than they have, and thus provide public services. When one does, it's cutting taxes, it has two solutions: cutting expenses or increasing debt. You chose both options, because your debt increased by 7.500 million euros, and you cut the cost. Why is it unfair? Because we say they pay more than they have, and when what you do is reduce taxes and cut expenses, who pays? The users of public services and the people who welcome social protection systems, i.e. the least favoured in society. No one likes to pay taxes, but I borrow it from a challenge. If in Rianxo we had made a referendum today saying, "We prefer that the large commercial areas pay 4 million euros and have a day center," what would the people of Rianxo say? What would Rianxo's PP say? Are we betting on the result, Counselor? And that's what you're doing. I'm going to give you a date that surprised me. You know that the collection of tax yields—patrimony, successions, heritage transmissions...—from 2016 in Galicia, the liquidated, has reversed 13.8% compared to 2014 and knows that at that time in the state as a whole has increased by 16%. Do you know that fiscal policy, which you did, made us raise EUR 244 million less, and that at the same time that debt collection was reduced in those years it increased by EUR 888 million? That's the difference between the neoliberal right and the people, which we actually represent the humiliated people of the country. [[Applause]] Let me tell you something, Counselor. You laugh at us making a proposal that the Interterritorial Compensation Fund should be recovered. I really don't believe you to do this. When you came to rule, the FCI provided Galicia with 250 million euros, now you know how many they are? 42. We lost 200 million Euros from the FCI. That a councilman from Madrid, the People's Party, defends that there is no territorial rebalancing, they are able to understand it, but that you criticise a proposal to change the instrument for the territorial rebalancing of the Spanish State or do not understand it or at all... Third element, which says it has no legal support. What we're defending is that there's a strict estimate of the advances on account. Counsellor, what was the settlement of the year 2015? They've been mistaken for 336 million euros. What was the settlement of the year 2016? They made a mistake in 442 million euros. Yes, yes, please why? [[A few honourable Members: Please.]] Because they premeditately use a low estimate to justify clippings. Counsellor, I bet you in this room, in full: what will be the positive settlement favourable to Galicia when the 2017-2018 budget is liquidated? We'll have 500 million euros more than you include in this budget. And so we say: strict estimate of advance income to account while the current operation — clearly defective — is not modified, and that the commission of autonomic finance experts has proposed that it be changed. In short, we want a progressive fiscal policy that seeks the resources where they are, in the great heritage, in the great fortunes, in transnational capital, to add it to public spending.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u109	In front of this model, you, from a neoliberal position, reduce public income, and that leads to two ways — that you follow both -- cuts and debt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u110	Thank you, Mr. Lago. I'm going to pass the reports to the lawyer, but the reports match. It's a curious thing. I have two reports that match both. [[Laughter]] It's okay. Thank you. Yeah, it's interesting. Mr. Fairy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u111	Thank you again, Mr. President. Madam Presas, two points too. The execution data, in a short way, I've already given them, and also the explanations throughout the day, both what it meant for 2015, and especially the year 2016, with that 100.6% execution, which we have in general terms. And with regard to investment chapters VI and VII, account must be taken of the great influence of non-activation of European programmes until the year 2016, but without losing spending capacity for the whole period up to 2020 and more than the corresponding N+2, the time has come. So, something I've talked about. You were also talking about budget changes. I understand that sometimes to certain people who were born a little later, younger, they don't explain the questions, but if something has these budgetary changes that the Council of Galicia has at this time, or before, and any government, is that they are theme number 1; is that the budgetary changes are a legal matter like any other, and, if they are not legal, they get down. I don't know what's wrong with the budget changes. And with respect to the volume, that's why I told you that there are people who are relatively young or who don't tell them the truth. Currently, the last year settled, the last year liquidated by the Board... please review... both in volume and in number the budget changes of the year 2016... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u113	...it's half what it was in 2008. That's the truth. I don't know why they bother. And I'm still defending the first derivative, which is that budget changes, if they're legal, I don't know why we have to tear our clothes, I don't know why. I think it's something that doesn't make any sense. Mr. Losada, it seems to me that, in a more or less fortunate way, no, but, speaking of politics, it seems to me that I spoke; now, speaking of politics in terms of which you want, you will not find me. As you will never find me never again to refer to certain people with a degree of professional qualification, even within the scope in which you have worked immeasurably, superior to yours. And here you refer to a question that is collected. It seems to me that you know that person, and that he doesn't come to the story about that explanation that you gave at the time. [[Applause]] Mr. Lago, if anything you have, is that you're a smart person, what happens is that you've done little work, and, as smart... usually lists and jobs are not the same, and I understand. Take a monocord theme and pull it forward, pick up a theme, like the IPC theme, and stay so wide when they cut it down here, with what it means. But you, like me, know that if we're talking about GDP, what we're talking about is a GDP deflator, and if you bring me here a role and give it to the Galego Institute of Statistics -- I don't know that -- you also know that the calculations we're doing to the Council are in the professionals -- very good professionals, by the way, from the Galego Institute of Statistics -- who tell you that GDP we have to measure it by the GDP deflator. And you yourself made reference today to what is the macroeconomic framework, what is to grow at the moment to the real 3.1% of the Greek economy and what is to do it to the 4.2% — not to the 4%, as you said — in nominal terms. There's a deflator of 1.1%. Why do you come here and talk about the IPC and so on? But what do you mean by that? If it's much easier... GDP, deflator of the economy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If there's no more! That's the first economics, it's the first economics! [[Applause]] What really draws my attention is when you also talk about the subject of only two models left: raising taxes and so on... No, no, there's a model that you also deny -- I understand that you deny -- which is the model of efficiency. How am I going to explain to you, who was responsible on television, that we currently have 24 million euros less on Galician television, we have the perfectly stabilized paintings — that you haven't been able to stabilize the staff paintings — and it turns out that we have more audience than when you spent 24 million euros? But how are you going to understand it? [[Applause]] How will you understand that? It's impossible! It's impossible! [[Applause]] It's not explained. Look, in the intervention he did in January of this year, he also calculated with his maths. You did make every rule of three simple!, but very simple, eh! He also said that this year the Greek economy had to grow to 1.5%, that we were going to... according to our painting. [[Laughter]] He doesn't understand that the macroeconomic frameworks that mark are trends and hypotheses, very consensual, but they're not a truth in themselves. This evolves and, then, you come here with the truth that we're going to be at 1.5% right now... look, there are the words you said in commission, if I'm not making anything up! As in other times, that all of us, in speaking, also take note of us. And I also kick my leg many times, but I'll keep kicking some things, because that also makes me free; I'm not afraid even to kick. But what is more important is that, really, more naturally, I believe that with different positions from totally legitimate issues we end this debate, and I have to thank the interventions, which are increasingly technical, although I can also use certain merits in my intervention. I believe that we have models, both economic and social, which are very contrasting and, of course, the priorities that we have developed as a government are totally different from those put forward by the different opposition groups. I think it's very healthy to admit it. They're two totally different models. It is clear, therefore, that the German Government has taken certain decisions. In our budget project, what we intend to do is consolidate the biggest tax reduction in the history of autonomy, that's undeniable: that the vast majority of Greeks don't pay for inheritance taxes, that most of the Greeks pay less for the IRPF, and both in sequences and in IRPF several autonomous communities are in a system very similar to what we have for 2016, since the beginning of January. We won't be so wrong, therefore. As well as having zero taxes on the countryside. And, in addition, for the next year, we have made new tax incentives, both for rural investments and also for one of the great heritage that we have, like our historic centers, besides promoting the purchase of business soil for that dynamism that we still need from our companies. In view of this, the group of opposition groups proposed amendments that amount to almost 450 million euros in tax increases for the Greeks. Obviously, we cannot accept that the opposition wants to raise taxes, and less because of this amount, to the Greeks. Despite these logical differences, I hope that as far as possible the parliamentary groups can continue to work towards, if possible, incorporating some improvement into the final budget text, which we hope to adopt in December. We are objectively in the best year since the economic crisis, and we have to use it to reach more Greek and Greek, which still, indeed, do not benefit from economic recovery. For that we present this budget, expansive, social, investor, integrator, and do it without triumphalism and without self-comprehensibility, but convinced that we are on the right path to meet our roadmap, the Strategic Plan, which has to allow us to continue to maintain this solid and sustained growth, continue to create quality employment, continue to lower unemployment and continue to improve our model of growth. Ladies and gentlemen, with the logical differences, I encourage all parliamentary groups to add to this path of economic consolidation; and to the Government, the good evolution that we have in recent years, they encourage us to persevere, both in the priorities and policies that have allowed us to take three years to grow over 3% and to create now more than 50,000 jobs. I insist, not everything is done; it's done a lot, but we have to do a lot more so that this healthy growth, in stability, is an equitable, inclusive and inclusive growth. With these objectives, we are presenting these budgets to the House to strengthen our priorities with more resources, which is a budget: priorities and resources. For what? To build confidence in all economic agents and to continue to see Galicia as an attractive and secure place to invest, to strengthen essential health, education and social services costs, linked to the well-being of people, with particular attention to those most in need, to boost public investment with the greatest commitment of resources from before the economic crisis, to foster a more competitive economic model and, consequently, with more quality employment, and to offer solutions and opportunities to the Greeks who need it most. The German Government will put everything in its hand to achieve these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u114	Thank you, Counselor. Before I proceed to the vote, I would like to make a request to Mr. Losada, if possible. An expression was used during the debate. This was an interesting debate, and I ask you if you can remove that expression, specifically referring to a person who is not in the Chamber, which you already know what it was, if you can't make a rule of three. [[Assentment.]] Thank you. Vote for Group II amendments Vote for amendments amending the overall budget content
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u115	We therefore proceed to the vote, and we begin by voting on the amendments discussed, in particular those which modify the overall budget content. First of all, we are voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, paragraphs 37 and 38. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 37 and 38 (Doc. # 20000) by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, modifying the global content of budgets The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u116	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 19919, correction of errors Doc. # 20082) by G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, which amends the global content of the budgets The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41 The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u117	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 19936 first part) of the G.P. in Marea, which amends the global budget count. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of amendments that transfer appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u118	We now vote on amendments that transfer appropriations between the sections. We started by voting on amendments from Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, in particular from number 1 to 36. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 36 (Doc. # 20000) by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, which transfers credits between sections The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41 The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u119	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 19919) by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, who transfer credits between sections. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u120	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 19936 Part II) of the G.P. in Marea, transferring credits between sections. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41 The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u121	This bill is therefore rejected by amendments to the whole, and the overall amount of expenditure and revenue is fixed, and it is transferred to Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, to continue its processing, in accordance with Article 114(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Open the doors, please. Finished voting. Two minutes of rest, only two minutes. The session is suspended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u122	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session with point 2 of the agenda. Full discussion of the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u123	Amendments to this project have been submitted. For the presentation of the bill, the councillor of Fairy has the word for word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. I intervene in this plenary to present the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures for the year 2018, a rule that complements the Bill of Budgets for this exercise. As on other occasions, we present this standard and seek greater effectiveness and efficiency with a set of measures relating to different areas of activities that, with a vocation of permanence over time, contribute to the achievement of certain multi-annual guidance objectives pursued by the Autonomous Community through budgetary execution. In this respect, I remind you again that the doctrine of the Constitutional Court sets out different executive measures and that, by their nature, they must adopt a rank of law. They must not be incorporated into the annual budget laws but into specific rules as I am currently presenting. In addition, I would like to reiterate that the doctrinal debate on the nature of so-called accompaniment laws was resolved by the Supreme Court. The high court has set up these kinds of rules as ordinary laws whose contents are fully protected by the freedom of configuration enjoyed by the legislator and which allow for greater and better effectiveness and execution of the Government's program in the various areas in which it develops its action. Among the measures included in this bill are those that aim to promote investment in rural areas and historical centres, to stimulate the sale of business soil for the implementation of new projects, to facilitate the reconciliation of public employees, to promote the enforcement of legal requirements by governments in the protection and prevention of forests, to order the sale of roads in the Way of Santiago, to improve the organization of chambers of commerce, to increase the effectiveness of foundations that manage trade fairs or to remove obstacles for the confrries that so decide to merge. As for the structure of the law, it is divided into two titles: the first, devoted to tax measures, and the second, to administrative measures. Title I, concerning tax measures, is divided into two chapters. Chapter I introduces measures in respect of assigned taxes. As far as income tax is concerned, new deductions are collected on the full autonomous quota to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, revitalizing and valuing historical centres; and on the other hand, encouraging taxpayers to allocate part of their income to investment in agricultural enterprises, agricultural cooperative societies or community exploitation on the ground. The aim is to mobilize land and rustic goods that are underutilized and to stimulate rural activity, promoting economic diversification, territorial balance and sustainability, both in social and economic terms. The new deductions set out in the equity tax quota also respond to the objective of promoting the rehabilitation of buildings located in historical centres and promoting the development of the rural environment. Similarly, deductions are introduced in the tax rate on documented heritage transmissions and legal acts, both in the form of costly heritage transmissions and in the form of documented legal acts. The aim of this measure is to encourage the promotion of the sale of industrial soil with the aim of dynamising business activity in Galicia, promoting the installation of companies in this community. These measures complement and continue to the policy of tax reductions carried out by the Board since 2016, which, as they recall, subject to the practical elimination of inheritance tax for direct heirs, of which more than 144,800 are already benefited, and also the zero tax strategy in rural areas, of which 22,560 have already benefited. Chapter II, relating to own taxes, consists of a single charge on rates, which is expected to increase the rates of fixed counting; and, on the one hand, to introduce several amendments to Law 6/2003 of 9 December 2003 on rates, prices and regulatory burdens of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about tax measures. As regards Title II, on administrative measures relating to public employment, amendments are introduced to Law 2/2015 of 29 April 2015 on public employment in Galicia consisting of the extension of the duration of leave by birth, adoption or reception permit and the permission of the other parent by birth, reception or adoption of a child as a means of reconciling personal, family and work life. With 22 weeks paid by Galician maternity will be Spain's largest duration. Similarly, as a measure for the protection of maternity and paternity, the perception by the statutory staff of the Galician Health Service, during situations of maternity, paternity, risk during pregnancy and risk during natural lactation, as well as throughout the duration of maternity and paternity permits, not only of the total fixed basic and complementary salaries but also of the average of the variable wages paid in the year preceding the month in which the corresponding situation began, in the concept of continued care derived from the provision of guards, nights and holidays, from the reduction to six months of the minimum period of stay in the jobs obtained by invitation to tender to participate in the specific competitions, in order to promote the promotion and professional development of staff and the provision of services also as a legal mechanism to allow the temporary coverage of such absences in order to strengthen public services. At the same time, we created a new scale of the technical auxiliary body of the Special Administration. In the field of pharmaceutical management, the transmission regime of new pharmacies offices awarded by public tenders is amended to extend the minimum period for transmission to 15 years. The goal is to get a profile of people participating in these contests who have this activity as a vital and time-contained project, thus ensuring the citizenship of effective, efficient and quality care. With regard to education, a precept is included to provide for in the legislation the possibility that the agreements concluded in the course of university funding plans will have a period of more than four years. The aim is that such a period of vigilance is consistent with the time frame of those plans, which are generally five-year or gender-based. In the area of social policy, several points of Law 6/2012, of Galician youth, are amended so that the scope of the rule's subjective application may apply to persons who do not have the consideration of young people and who extend the scope as regards education activities in leisure, children and youth, since at present only part of these activities carried out by monitors are regulated. In the area of the Galego Social Services Consortium, it is clear that the competences which correspond to the municipalities in the area of the creation, management and maintenance of Community social services have the character of their own competences. It is stated that it will not be necessary to exercise the Board's reports which now require state legislation. The goal is to speed up and reduce procedures between the autonomous administration and the municipalities when there is an agreement between the parties. With regard to economic, employment and industry, various measures are included, including the amendment of Law 5/2004, of 8 July, of official chambers of commerce, industry and navigation in Galicia, to clarify the role of the Galician Council in taking up the functions of those chambers to extinguish and ensure the care and provision of services during the dissolution and extinction processes and to address the inclusion of representatives of the largest voluntary approaching companies in the plenary, and also, lastly, to amend the article on the tasks that the plenary may delegate and revoke in the Executive Committee. This measure aims to improve the organization of cameras and ensure their internal functioning, so that they can develop their support and drive functions to partner companies. In addition, changes are introduced in Act 1/1996 of 5 March on the regulation of trade fair activities, among which points out that the public functions in which these types of activities are carried out must adapt the composition of their sponsors to the shareholding of capital registered in their protectorate; an adjustment to be made within one year. Similarly, Law 13/2010 of 17 December is amended in respect of Galicia's internal trade, which provides that between the places intended for the sale of the street will be found the urban sections of the routes of the Way of Santiago. The novelties introduced allow us to order the street sale in such an emblematic space of such importance at the cultural, social and economic level for Galicia, in addition to protecting Route Xacobea. In the area of urbanism, there are timely changes to Law 2/2016, of February 10, of Galician soil, in order to respond to manifest needs in its application. In particular, the maximum time limit for resolving procedures is extended to set the fair price according to its complexity. The Town Hall is configured as the administration to which persons who own consolidated urban soil must assign land destined for roads outside the alignments established in the planning when intended to plot, build or rehabilitate entirely. And a specific transitional regime is introduced in relation to general planning in processing or that will be processed in the case of merged municipalities. In the field of natural heritage, it provides for the amendment of Law 7/1992 of 24 July 1992 on river fishing in order to ensure maximum conciliation in the setting up and application of the sanctioning scheme. In addition, a timely amendment to Decree 37/2014 of 27 March is requested and special conservation zones are declared to be places of Community importance in Galicia and approved by the Director Plan of the Natura 2000 Network in Galicia to clarify the concept and scope of certain permissible actions. However, it provides in the last first provision of the law for the possible subsequent amendment of the provision by rules of regulatory rank corresponding to the standard in which it appears. Finally, the deadline is extended to resolve procedures for declarations of natural spaces of local interest and private spaces of natural interest from three to six months. It also collects, as a rule of law, the rule of negative silence to ensure that the management powers referred to in Article 7 of Decree 124/2005 of 6 May, so that the figure of the natural space of local interest and the figure of the private space of natural interest are regulated if they become effective with the existence of an express declaration. As far as fishing is concerned, an amendment is introduced to the Merger Act which is limited only to merger cases and which seeks to remove obstacles so that the confrries which so decide may be merged. Even so, in order to give greater flexibility to adapt the regulatory regulation of fishing and shellfishing to the changing reality of these activities, the concept of management plans contained in Law 11/2008, of December 3, of Galicia fisheries, while the concept of zone plans, which, in its entirety, replace experimental plans, is introduced. In the field of the rural environment, legislative changes are introduced in order to encourage administrations to comply with legal requirements in forest protection and prevention; in the field of biomass management, essentially with measures aimed at facilitating the cleaning and management of trees; in the field of administration action, with changes to speed up times and simplify procedures in the event that public administrations take care of the management of the cleaning of farms, as it is empowered; and in the case of the neighboring mountains in common, so that the mountains that are not exploited or are in a severe state of abandonment can be declared such by the Rural Environment Council and incorporated into the Land Bank, so that those who have a need for land can put them into value. We are therefore presenting a global package which will be reinforced in this area of the rural environment with the amendments that will be tabled by the various groups. I encourage all parliamentary groups to cooperate and enrich measures aimed at promoting fire prevention and the fight against fires. Finally, in its final part, the law includes the necessary transitional regime to facilitate transit to the legal regime provided for by the new regulation, the express derogation from specific provisions, as well as how many provisions of equal or lower rank are opposed to the provisions of it, an enabling also for its normative development and the forecast of its entry into force. This law complies with the principles of good regulation contained in Article 129 of Law 39/2015 of 1 October 2015 on the common administrative procedure of public administrations, and in Article 37(a) of Law 14/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the rationalization of the autonomous public sector of Galicia. It is adjusted because the measures it foresees seek to satisfy needs of general interest with due proportionality, efficiency and efficiency, by collecting in the standard the objectives pursued through it and its justification, as required by the principle of transparency, and by introducing through it, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty, the precise changes in the relevant provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by reiterateing that the measures contained in this bill aim to promote investment in rural areas and historic centres, to stimulate the sale of business soil for new projects, to facilitate the reconciliation of public employees, to promote the enforcement of legal requirements by governments in the protection and prevention of forests, to order the road sale in the Way of Santiago, to improve the organization of chambers of commerce, to increase the effectiveness of the foundations that manage the fairs or to remove obstacles for the confrries that so decide to merge. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u125	Thank you, Counselor. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u126	Good afternoon to all and to all. It must be acknowledged that the session has gained momentum in the afternoon. We'll try to keep it that way. I have to tell you something like this, to begin with, Mr Counsellor, when you have to justify in your first words the use of this tool, its character or legal protection, I think you already say a lot about use, of misuse, we would say from the BNG — and now I will explain it; we have said it last year and we repeat it now — that if you do this Law of tax and administrative measures, or more commonly known as "Accompaniment Law." And I'm saying that we've already said it last year because you have the tendency, the stubbornness, to use this Law of tax and administrative measures, this Law of accompaniment, like an omnibus law, like a law of a whole revolutionum, we could say -- you also did or used a sentence in Latin in the morning -- a box of tailors, to understand us, to reform laws that have nothing to do with budgets in many cases. They continue with a practice that we have always denounced and always censored since the Galician Nationalist Block, because it means a tool that prevents debate in a broad, rigorous way — as you like to say so — from a broad perspective and with due consultation especially to the sectors affected by the rules they intend to reform. This time they are heading to an important part of the reforms that they propose in this Accompanying Act of the 2007 Fire Prevention Act and also to the 1989 Neighbourhood Mounting Act. They do this after a wave of fires such as that of the 15th October, which, at least, we believe in it from the BNG, is to analyse and discuss in depth the structural reforms and not the patches that our country needs in the field of forest policy, fire prevention, of course, but also the fixing of rural populations, rural development and multifunctional use of the mountain. And I look at this because if you do a sweep of the use that is made throughout the entire part that corresponds to the administrative measures, to those that meet that reform of the Fire Prevention Act or of neighboring mountains in common, you see that you have to use as if they were synonymous "mounte" and "forestal", falling or recanting into an error that is partly at the root of the situation we are in today, and it's to believe that the mountain has only one feature or serves only to produce wood. The mountain has a triple function: an economic or productive function, an ecological function and also a social function. And in the balance of these three functions is that we can, or at least so defend it from the BNG, find the necessary solutions that demand the current mountain situation in our country; but for that we need something more than 15 minutes in the debate of the Accompanying Law. But let's go aside. With regard to the first part, of the tax measures that make up the Accompanying Law, I again reflect the lack of ambition on the part of the People's Party, and, in this case, the Government of Galicia, to overcome — we criticised it, we denounced it in the morning; we also denounced it in its intervention Noa Presas, and I reiterate again that rejection, that lack of ambition we perceive on the part of the BNG — the difficult situation that has generated the crisis context, especially the serious social prejudices caused by the policies of cuts accumulated over the last nine years, the accumulated, boosted and applied budgetary restrictions since 2009. Despite the economic growth framework and the greater availability of resources in relation to previous years, it does not reflect on the total budget project for 2018, nor does it reflect on the part corresponding to the fiscal measures that make up the Accompanying Act that we are now discussing a proposal for economic development that blinds and improves public services. They therefore maintain fiscal measures of a regressive nature in tax policy, re-absorbing the opportunity to adopt another taxation based on the principles of progressiveness and equity, with the aim of ensuring their redistributive function. I insist that this is an issue that had already been raised by my companion Noa Presas before. We are talking about really restoring the property tax, recording those over €300,000, excluding the usual housing, and applying greater progress to the autonomous tax tranches on the income of physical persons, with additional taxes for taxable bases over €60,000 and, above all, those incomes that exceed 120,000. Not to all the Greeks, Mr. Counsellor, the great incomes and the great heritage, because you did a magnificent exercise in your first intervention, in part that corresponded to the Budgets Act before being discussed, so that in rhetoric and philosophy it is called fallacy, which basically is using arguments that induce deception to the audience; to understand us: to lie. And in this particular case, you chose to use the part for everything, didn't you? [[Applause]] So he accuses the BNG that what he wanted was to raise taxes to the Greeks. No, raise taxes to large incomes, to large wealths, to great fortunes, to be able to redistribute those incomes with justice and social equity. [[Applause]] We also talk about creating, within the limited capacity that the current political framework recognises to the Government of Greece, for example, a tax that exacerbates the economic impact, the environmental impact and the social impact of the establishments located in large commercial areas. They are proposals that make up an incomplete, limited tax package, but fit into the current frame. From the BNG we insist — and we will not tire of doing so — on the need to overcome that framework to another that allows the Greeks and the Greeks to act on the great tax figures, where it really is raised; a model that recognizes sovereignty for our country, the ability to decide on these tax types, to have greater economic resources that allow public services to be shielded and improved as fundamental rights — the corporate tax does not manage it by the Galician Union, by setting them just an example — that allow, I say, to have greater resources, to shield and improve public services as fundamental rights that are and economically energize the country towards greater development, but also a development from a social, equitable and just perspective to the whole of the people who live and work in our country, and not just for a part of society. However, this project gives up even the slightest possibility that the financing system allows, refusing to use the limited normative capacities to move forward in greater progress and equity, in greater and better redistribution of wealth to combat social inequality. Nor can it be said that you do not have — it became clear to us, if we had any doubts throughout today — or the slightest intention to change Galician's political relationship with the State to overcome these limitations, these constraints, those corsets which impose the current framework and which assume the political subordination of our country in this area and many others. He spoke in the morning of ambition, and I think it was you, besides, who was referring to the ambition of the Government, and you as spokesman, in this case, of the Government. To have ambition is to want to go further — which Manuel Antonio said — and to go further requires questioning the institutional and political framework, that framework that has come to us, to try to have greater decision-making capacity, which allows us to improve the quality of life of the people we live and work here. With regard to administrative measures, they use the Accompanying Law again, I insist, as an opaque government tool, and they make it clearer, because they learn more about justification to use this mechanism and ensure that it has legal support, that I don't doubt it — then I'll talk to you a little bit later—. They again use this Accompanying Law as an opaque tool to reform many laws without just debate in this House — there are just six minutes left — and, of course, without dialogue with the sectors affected by the reforms. Here we are tired of hearing how constantly and permanently calling for dialogue, but in truth you act unilaterally, and in addition to the back door, and you look comfortable in that attitude. They reform with this mechanism 20 laws -- last year they were 21, this time they are 20 laws -- among them a dozen were driven and approved by the People's Party, some last year, in 2016, begged for candy and dish as future laws. This is the case with the Land Law, approved on February 1, 2016, patched in the Accompanying Law of 2017, less than a year after it was approved; it was also reworked in the Act of the Implementation of Entrepredation or Entrepredation Initiatives and now again they intend to put another patch with the Accompanying Law for 2018. That's the antithesis of rigor. You're legislating impulses, improvising, and they're self-defeating by parishes. [[Applause]] Now, the bulk of the changes have reached — as you also pointed out in your intervention — the rural environment through timely and inconceivable reforms in many cases that show the lack of strategic planning in this council. They reform much of the 2007 Prevention Act, actually what was left of it, because it had already been reformed; in particular, two thirds of that 2007 Prevention Act had been reformed with the 2012 Mount Law through a last provision, even against the criteria of the Economic and Social Council, which told them that if they wanted to reform the law, they had done it, but that they had done it in front of the discovered face, that they had taken and started a regulatory process to reform that law and not that they had used a back door, in this case the last provision of the 2012 Mount Law. And now they are again making changes using the subterfuge — another back door — of the Budget Accompanying Law, without the necessary debate in depth and in a context in which the funds are cut—if it has been pointed out here too in the morning—of fire prevention, specifically 28,000 euros less than in 2017, in budgets where most programs are increased their departure, that is obvious, even if it is little. And just a few days after the fire strike that devastated this country on October 15 they present in this House some accounts that cut the budget of the main tool to prevent the living on October 15 from repeating itself; I insist, 28,000 euros less. In addition, they freeze capital transfers both to local entities and to private companies in the area of prevention, assuming in practice a cut—because you also recognized it here, we are not going into the issue of the figure—which is expected to be a positive IPC for 2018. Civil protection and citizen security, fundamental services also to shorten disaster situations, emergencies, accidents, fires, also come down in their budget by 2.5 % less than the previous year, by 634,000 euros less, and the Galician Emergency Agency drops by about 834,000, a cut of 11.2%. We have just lived an exceptional situation, of absolute national emergency, with four fatal victims, about 50,000 hectares burned in two days, and you cut down on budget prevention and decide to patch up the 2007 law; I insist, then, they left the express reform, with a final provision in the 2012 Mount Law, through a processing of the Budget Accompanying Law. By the way, reform—which they propose—which results in an amendment to their own speech, to which they have defended, in addition, in recent years vigorously, until the last ordinary session or in the previous one, but a month and a half ago, the president himself was back on that idea, in the idea that the German Government was overwhelmed because those who did not meet the responsibility of cleaning up the temples, for example, were the Town Councils, and they were not doing it. And now the reforms that are introduced through this Accompanying Law go, among other things, but essentially aimed at introducing the necessary changes that allow the subsidiary management of biomass, especially those banks, of the lands or farms that are in the hands of unknown owners or of those who, although known, are not fulfilling their obligations. So it's just that before it could not be done, it's not that the municipalities didn't. [[Applause]] If it had been little, another part of the reforms that make up this Accompanying Law reached — it was said at the beginning — the neighboring mountains in common hands; silent reforms that aim to comply in an absolutely undemocratic way, without any dialogue with the communities. Among the changes, for example, they open the door to which the Council assumes the management of those mountains in common hands when they are declared in severe state of abandonment under criteria that will be available in a manner — look! — periodic the person who holds this advice; that is, this year some criteria and, the following year, other criteria. Where is it? Where is it? Where is it? Where is it? Where Put "periodic" literally; you read the initiatives, the reform proposals, which are collected within this accompanying law. Do you think that the law can be reformed in this way, in a law accompaniment of budgets, stealing from the necessary debate not only to this House but to the Forest Council in this case, or vetoing, preventing or stealing this debate from the whole of society through the corresponding public exhibition that requires any reform? Since the BNG we have rejected — as it was said at the outset — what we consider to be a perverse and completely deverted use of the logic by which there are these types of legislative figures; a practice that, not usual, ceases to be a scam...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u128	...to democracy — if finished —. These mechanisms have an exceptional character, an exceptional and urgent character, and they must include only those reforms that are indispensable for the proper execution of the budget; they cannot serve as a back door to avoid debate and silence criticism, nor do they want to do what they want, by much absolute majority they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, too, Counselor. Today we are debating the entire Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which is known as the "Accompaniment Law", which the Government of the PP of the Galician Union brings us together with the Bill of Budgets for Exercise 2018 as if it were a further volume, as if it were an integral part of the budgets of the Galician Union, being already a habitual practice of the governments of Mr.Núñez Feijóo in the Galician Union and which, in addition, you justify how: "The budgets require, for their full application, the adoption of various measures, those of a purely executive character and others of a normative nature, which, by their nature, must adopt a rank of law" ; justification that, as I will explain to you later, nothing has to do with the reality of this bill. Nothing has to do with the revenue and expenditure of the budgets that have been discussed here today in the morning and which will follow your parliamentary procedure. It consists of an amalgam of unfamiliar precepts, which have no connection between them, and although it is legal, it is true that it is legal, but it is strongly discouraged by existing legislative doctrine. It is a matter of urgency — therefore, it is a loss of political and legal quality — it is impossible to be able to deepen on each of the issues raised there, to break the principle of legal security, to show a high degree of improvisation and to go against the very principle of transparency that you once and for all express but that you again fail, without publication and without public exposure. They therefore deny the legal possibility that suggestions can be made both by the citizenry and by the sectors involved. It prevents individual parliamentary debate for each of the issues that we want to address and prevent it from reaching agreements in which, at best, we would agree and that we could vote favourably. Specific reports are missing from each of the departments or advisors concerned, and only the memory of the Business Council makes a series of considerations and justifies this absence. The report on financial sustainability only deals with matters of maternity protection and paternity of public employees, evaluating at a cost of 2 million euros. It's the only one who comes with a budget valuation. The ESC's preliminary report is not presented, which is also a fairly common practice in all laws, in all draft laws that come out of Galicia, failing to fulfil its own role and its own law of constitution and having the provisions that are being debated today very important economic and social impact. The report of local administrations is missing, which affects some provisions quite prominently, and yet it still happens to local administrations over and over again. They just give them more powers, but never finance, never consult them. Reports from sectoral councils or advisory committees are also missing, mandatory on some occasions, but you report as appropriate. So it's an improper procedure for a government that has an absolute majority, because they wouldn't be afraid it didn't go forward? Isn't that right, Counselor? They'll remember it all the time, that you're 41 and that we're not, or adding up the three. But it's a government that manifests in this way of governing is that it despises the work of opposition, despises the comings of the sectors. In short, it's a government that, protected by that absolute majority that restricts us over and over again, passes the knee over and over again, not considering the opposition to anything, not considering that we also bring to it questions that are valued by the sectors and that are valued by citizenship, since we also represent a significant percentage of the citizenship of this country. This budgetary technique was employed on seven occasions by the governments of Fraga, six by the governments of Feijóo and none by the Government of Touriño. Since 2010 the successive governments of Mr Feijóo — i.e. nine years without interruption — have tabled 396 amendments to specific policy issues on 70 laws, and in this calculation we have excluded tax and tax matters. So nearly 400 policy questions on 70 nine-year laws of uninterrupted People's Party government. In this 2017 exercise, they present a bill that amends 20 legislative norms — and we also exclude tax-type ones. Twelve of these rules were promoted directly by the governments of Mr. Núñez Feijóo in these nine uninterrupted years of his government. And I'm going to highlight just a few: Mountain Law, five years, 17 changes; Land Mobility Law, six years, 7 changes; Agricultural Structure Law, two years, 12 changes; Public Service Law, two years, 27 changes; Social Services Law, 27 changes; Internal Trade Law, seven years, 27 changes; Self-Government Act, seven years, 10 changes. And a special comment requires Law 3/2007, prevention and defense against forest fires in Galicia, 56 changes since 2010; that is, seven years, 56 changes. And in this bill, you have to change points. We must remember, moreover, that every time these laws are presented — the truth is, with a great deal of media coverage — they always tell us that they will be the solution of problems or shortcomings, of what they are, and that, in addition, in a short time, as I have just shown them, they fail or fail, and therefore they are no longer valid. And now, at this moment, they are self-amended by the same Government that promulgated them. The truth is, you always do everything with a lot of propaganda. It's true, advertising and propaganda dominate them to perfection, but reality and execution do not carry them as perfectly as that advertising and propaganda. No matter how much more media coverage they make in the bill announcement, they have no further impact on reality. It's not about passing laws, it's not about making papers, it's not about making documents, it's about ruling, and ruling has consequences. And it's also about running the credits to achieve the expected results. If they are executed, they can achieve better results than only budgeted and then they're only left on that paper. Failure to execute these credits can trigger such devastating consequences as those we have just suffered in October, for example, among others. Look, the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, the Socialists, has tabled 63 amendments to this bill, with which we think or want to contribute and contribute to achieve a better regulation that will result in the benefit of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, and we would like them to take into account — I know that all of them do not, but most of them — the amendments we have tabled, which will probably improve much of their regulatory part, and then, essentially, they will implement them. As for the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party, I'm going to focus on three lots. First of all, there are tax measures. We presented a deduction in the IRPF of the amounts invested to alleviate the damage caused by forest fires in 100 percent, and broadening the coverage of these damage to housing or exploitation to many other attachments that are not envisaged today by the Government, and that were also harmed by the wave of fires struck in October. We also asked for a change in the IRPF record scale to increase the percentage of higher incomes, and we set a minimum exemption for equity tax of EUR 400,000, from which the calculation of the usual housing is excluded. I know you're going to tell me we want to charge more taxes, but no, Counselor, no. We want to redistribute wealth. We want them to pay those who have the most to care for those who need it most, for the worst who are going through it. And look, I want to remind you that right now, according to the data from the EPA in the third quarter of 2017, there are still 33,600 homes without any entry into Galicia; 61,700 homes with all their members on unemployment; and 52% of the homes refer to arriving with difficulty or much difficulty at the end of the month. That's why we want to pay those who have the most, and that's why we want the redistribution of wealth. [[Applause]] Another aspect in which we also present an important battery of amendments is in public employment. As you well know, or as you well know, public employment and the working conditions of employees or public employees in Greece have suffered the cuts in politics over these years. Law 1/2012, of temporary measures in certain public employment matters of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the Italian Government applies to all employees of the autonomic public sector, in which labor rights have been cut off, and I will list some of them. Economic penalty for situations of work incapacity; abolition of aid from social action funds; restrictions on the right to extension of residence in the active service situation when the age of compulsory retirement is met; unilateral suspension of the rights collected in several articles in the V Single Collective Convention for employees of the Galician Union; restrictions on the provision of jobs and mobility; and during the financial years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, it was imposed — additionally to the abolition of the extra payment of 2012 — a remunerative cut for all employees of the Italian autonomous public sector, which amounted to an average of 5% annually, by removing the specific supplement or equivalent concept in extraordinary payments. And in the draft general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, you set out that the Galician Union points out that the macroeconomic scenario foresees the continuation of the expanding phase of the Greek economy; they aim to maintain the high quality of our health system, to continue not only to guarantee it, but also to improve it; that education policy will continue to build on the achievement of quality, freedom, equal opportunities and dialogue; and social policies with the most disadvantaged, and attention to dependent people, constitute, according to you, an undeniable commitment and represent an important effort. Therefore, in view of the temporary nature of that law, subject to its vigil to the survival of the difficult economic circumstances that have affected the sustainability of public accounts, the Socialists have asked for the derogation of that law, which will bring to the best of all that you expose in the draft budget law itself. And the third point, which is not less important, is about the rural environment. The content of this law shows a great acknowledgement of guilt on the part of the Galician Union, of guilt on the consequences of the wave of fires that affected Galicia at the end of the week of October 15 this year. You recognize that you are not prepared to deal with the goods and people in exceptional situations, although they were already known because there was a report that made them manifest. You recognize that safety tracks in road infrastructures or population centres are insufficient. There was also a law of the era of Emilio Pérez Touriño that you have lowered, and therefore now have the consequences and have to go back to the past. They recognize that the policies applied in the laws — or, rather, expressed, because they apply, apply, not always is so — are not effective in the face of a situation that may happen again. You recognize that rural environment has never been a priority for the People's Party Government in Galicia. That's why we, the PSdeG, have tabled a series of amendments and we regret that they are not debated in an ordinary procedure. We call for the deduction in the IRPF of the amounts invested in order to alleviate the damage caused by forest fires with retroactive effects, i.e. for this 2017 exercise. We set up a new classification of scales for personnel dedicated to forest fire work. We introduced changes in the mountains in common, in the sense of a bill already presented by our group in the 2010 exercise, and, of course, with its knee not approved by the Government of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u132	...—now ended, Mr President—in which it is requested to promote the establishment of neighbouring communities when they do not exist; the defence or management in the event of severe abandonment; the extinction of the neighbouring community by the Galician Union in order to promote its management and prevent forest fires; so that in the management of the declared neighboring mountains in a state of severe abandonment or degradation 70% is reinvested in the maintenance and management of the mountains, which expands the work of the land banks, which will also assume the management of the neighbouring mountains in the event that the neighboring community so requests when it is unable to manage the mountain, setting the criteria for the reversion of mountain management to the neighbouring community. We propose the introduction of changes to the Pladiga, so that it will bring the Galician Parliament to its analysis, debate and pronouncement of the political groups. And we propose the regulation and establishment of cooperation agreements with local administrations, establishing the technical and economic support of the Galician Union for the identification of the networks of the bands. We've established greater clarity regarding the management of biomass...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u134	...—I'm done right now. We propose the expansion of 50 to 100 metres in the range of forest fire protection homes, and 30 to 50 for species marked in the third additional provision; that is ahead of May, instead of June, the management of biomass and the removal of species; the creation of an agency for the protection of the hills of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u136	I'm done right now. Finally, a law more adapted to the reality of Galicia, which already minimizes the possible terrible consequences for 2018...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u137	Thank you very much. You have another shift later to finish what's left behind.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u138	...that we have just passed and that, year after year, they suppose the forest fires in Galicia. Thank you very much for your flexibility, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u140	Good afternoon. There are jokes that, many times they contain, they're always funny. For many times, a spokesperson or a Popular Party adviser will come here and assume the observance of the law, he will never cease to be funny about the People's Party, the Gürtel Party, when he's just been seen for judgment of that trial, in which the Prosecutor says you've been funding yourself in B since its creation. Some of the 100 years of honesty took them to Filesa, but you didn't last even a year. Mr Naseiro has already charged himself since the beginning of tax evasion, charge in B, charge charges to be able to finance election campaigns. So it's very funny that the People's Party comes here to restrict the law to those who don't have that baggage that others have. It's also very funny that they come up with rigour and how it's legislated, isn't it? He's very funny, too. Mrs. Rodil said here the changes she suffered from Law 2/2016 on the ground. One more was left, the first modification in fact, which was less than a week after the approval of the Land Law. And we've already taken five of you with this one. That is rigour, rigor, five changes in less than two years! There's also a question I want to ask the advisor. Have you come here to defend this bill of accompaniment or the bill of accompaniment but the amendments presented by the People's Group to this bill? Because the story changes a lot, doesn't it? Change the story a lot! The amendments tabled by the People's Group already include the first amendment to the Business Initiatives Promotion Act. They almost beat the record of the amendment of the Law of the ground, great legislative rigour! This one also has a lot of jokes, the processing of the Business Initiatives Promotion Act. Presented by the People's Group, by the way of urgency, to cover up that you were giving gifts to the electricians, the miners and the Ence as always, and then, of course, to those favors back. By the way of urgency, and you yourself, in this parliamentary procedure the People's Group self-implants itself, but not with one or two bugfixes, no, no, no, with more than 15 issues of great silence! You're all right. And now, I don't know how long there is, I think less than a month, they're bringing back a package of amendments and one to the Business Initiatives Promotion Act. Look, in your own amendment, you're already changing the sectoral projects that are imposed by the Business Initiatives Promotion Act. Sectoral projects shall expire and extinguish their effects with an express prohibition of any subsequent act of execution of it, assuming that because the owner of the works is liable to breach the time limits laid down for their initiation and termination, or are interrupted for longer than the authorised person without justified cause, unless the corresponding extension is obtained, which may grant the consultancy that has processed the project, without in any case being able to exceed half the time limit set in the sectoral project. Of course, they now assimilate the sectoral plan to the partial plans and therefore have indefinite vigil, because they say, "The vigil of the sectoral projects that involve the transformation and urbanization of the soil will be the one that establishes urban legislation for the partial plans." You must think we're lost idiots! Urban legislation does not establish any specific vigil. This is your rigor. The chapuza is such a calibre that they also forget to include transitional arrangements for the new urban planning regime of forest-impact areas in relation to planning or management tools in process. Are we going to bet you something you're going to have to bring a change to include this? Should we bet? No, right? Because they're going to have to bring it along and continue with the chapuza giving the scattering recital, normative confusion, and even above we'll have to take classes of rigour from the councilman and Mr. Tellado as well. Rigor and compliance, wet paper; wet paper too. They're proposing something about parenting rights, right? I am going to read — I am saying, as Mr. Rajoy said — Mr. Feijó's third promise of this nation's speech this year — from the nation: "Public employees will have at their disposal a new measure of reconciliation; a maternity leave increased to 22 weeks since the current 20th." Ladies and gentlemen, with the extension of maternity leave up to 22 weeks, the Union is once again acting in the field where it has competence over maternity or paternity permits, which is the autonomous civil service. Where is he? Where's Mr. Feijó's promise? Wet paper once more. So I don't think there's any need to talk about rigour anymore. Rigor is to speak, after the fires, of increasing cooperation with the municipalities and giving them more capacity to perform the subsidiary executions, and instead, to keep the conventions and subsidies to the municipalities frozen. Do more with less, but they impose it on others. That's rigour, too. Rigor is to pass a law to promote business initiatives that are presenting various sectors and oligopolies around there and not to say a word in the 2018 Budget Bill. That's rigour, too. Rigor is that there is no trace of the Rehabilitation Act in the Budget Project. So, who are you, gentlemen of the People's Party, going to teach? I don't follow. Continuity also of the disarray, of confusion, of the lack of forecasting of planning; of spectacular announcements to cover the lack of rigour and forecasting of planning; of the failure of their policies in many ways, which I will comment on later; and of the continuity also of gifts, in this case to the electricians. Decree 37/2014, on the protection of special conservation areas, and Nature Network Director Plan are not modified to comply with the extension of the Natura Network, no, they are modified to give gifts to electricians. Amendment to Article 60 (3) of this decree: "1. The maintenance and maintenance tasks of the linear infrastructures existing in unconsolidated natural space as permitted, which shall be duly authorized by the autonomous body competent in nature conservation, as long as they undergo changes in their layout and/or length whenever...". Do you know what's missing here? A "no." Earlier in the decree, he said: "They shall be duly authorized by the competent autonomous body in matters of nature conservation as long as they ‘do not’ undergo changes in their layout." And do you know, Counselor — that you don't have to know everything, I don't know how old you are, but you don't have to know everything — what are the linear infrastructures? Well, for example, high-voltage lines. You guys before didn't allow trace changes, and now -- unless it's a mistake, we're waiting for it to be corrected -- they also want to give you a gift that you can make trace changes. It probably doesn't matter to you. And then they also do a recital to divert attention. After the October fire strike, Mr. Feijóo came here to announce a thirty measures, most of them are already in force, systematically unmet. You have systematically breached the instruments that you yourself have approved with most of them. They failed the Galician Forest Plan, the Board of Auditors said so in the report. We should be at this point spending most of the budgets on making the Galician mountain productive, and we're still spending money on extinction. That's right, to give contracts to helicopters' friends against fires. You broke your own Mountain Law and allowed the reforestation of land. They already legally allowed it at the time of Fraga, and now illegally allowed it without acting. You have failed and have not heeded any of the dictates that have been made in this Parliament. You make an amendment to your own speech. They said the only problem was that there were incendiary terrorists. There is rigour in the use of words! Incendiary terrorists! You said it was the only problem in this country. And it turns out that now in the measures they talk about land management, because it is obvious that there is a problem of territorial disorder — you have been ruling for thirty years. You talk about the eucalyptus not burning like the oaks — as we were told — that the ordered mountains don't burn like the disorderly and the abandoned. They never say it here, they never recognize it, but in these measures you implicitly recognize the failure of their policies in all these important issues. You say: private owners, minifundism, property fragmentation... what have you done in these last eight years of government? Well, load the paints against the bipartite uxfor and create the forest development societies. Great success!, five constituted and 800 hectares, 0.09 % of the forest surface in private hands, already discounting the neighboring mountains in common. A success! And now they change, they make changes, but not to make the self-managed mount, that people themselves can create wealth, fix population, stay living in rural areas. No, no, they make changes in the sulphur to allow the capital to enter the mountain. And the capital, when it comes in, doesn't come in for free, comes in to get some very clear, short-term, unsustainable benefits. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they also do the same with the modifications of the neighboring mountains in common. You did not provide the means, resources and will necessary to collaborate and coordinate with the neighbouring mountains in common so that they themselves could be viable. Instead, in this law what they do is to speed up and facilitate the declaration of abandoned or degraded mountain, just from a forest point of view, to pass on to the Land Bank, and so that at the Land Bank they can have these private companies that are waiting to enter and do business. They'll do business, but they'll do business for them, and they won't be able to create with that model a country where people live in rural areas. They do the same with the farm. You talk about tax policy, you talk about lowering taxes to all the Greeks. Look, you'll eliminate the 99% inheritance tax, but that tax policy doesn't favor all the Greeks and the Greeks, it favors a few. What would favor many Welsh and Welsh people who live in rural areas, who have to stop that from zero taxes in rural areas... who will be asked how much they pay for immovable property tax compared to when Mr. Rajoy arrived at the Government; or who tell them how much they pay for light, you see, that's not solved by tax deductions! The fixing of population and the failure you have been testing for so many years is not solved by tax deductions unless it is accompanied by a policy of research, counselling, training; a policy of land management, territorial base; not marketing policies, etc. Everything you've failed at this time. You empty the audience to leave that green desert for the great economic actors that you work for. Yes, Counselor, they work for them and for Ence, among others, too. They've already made him a law to suit himself so that he might be another seventy years in Pontevedra's stream. And you left, without saying or mu, that the last word had been given to you by the Government of the State. Of course, it would be very independent, right, claiming that Galicia could decide on the stay in the river, and then they let Mr. Mariano Rajoy decide from Madrid without us being able to say anything. Well, they work for it, of course! Then failure on the mountain, failure on the fire fighting device as well. You should hear the press round that gave the bodies that fight the fire in this country. Demolescent, with the performance of the fires on Sunday. Demolifier! And I also fail that they intend to cover up with spectacular announcements, for example, in rehabilitation policy. Of course, you run 15% in the 2016 Housing Rehabilitation Program with the general account closed, and you announce a rehabilitation law. That's right, the budgets don't show up anywhere. But by announcing the law, you also think you're going to solve this problem. And in the deductions on historical helmets — we will speak in the debate on partial amendments — we can also see a model. I mean, we want rehabilitated historical helmets, but we don't want restored historical helmets only architecturally. We want people to keep living in them. Don't make tax deductions tailored to the investment funds that want to do business in historical helmets and that end up doing what's going on in many places. No, don't put it in your head, Counselor. I'm not saying it's you. That's what's happening in historical centers when certain tax incentives are made, which ends up living in them certain people who have money to invest there, and not achieving living and economically dynamized historical helmets. And then, finally, you come to tell us that they're now going to make the purpose of the amendment with these new thirty measures, and they make a fairly broad modification of the management of biomass ranges. Look, you guys when they arrived had that law approved, and what they did was reduce the distances. You have despised these security measures for the homes of the Greeks and the Greeks and have reduced those distances, and come now because there were fires. As always, they act only when things happen. Look, they've never been told these questions here! And since there were fires that Sunday, you brought some changes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u142	They bring some changes that will give them more chances of working in the Town Councils, but instead you don't have any economic instruments available to the Town Councils to fight against it. Yes, yes, well, if I don't see it, I don't think so, Counselor. In this law they will have to modify it — in the Budget Bill — because the resources for the municipalities are still the same, which demonstrates once again the improvisation and the chauffeur you often encounter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor by the non-amendant groups, representing the People's Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing amendments to the entire draft law on tax and administrative measures. Even though some voices and voices were confused and talked about partial amendments, that's not the debate today. Ladies and gentlemen, accepting these amendments today as a whole was supposed to prevent the launching of new tax reductions, tax reductions that have a clear end. On the one hand, to dynamize the rural environment and activity linked to the primary sector; new bonuses to encourage rehabilitation and investment in historic centers. And also new tax reductions with the aim of boosting the sale of business soil in the hands of administrations to stimulate job creation and projects. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, accepting your amendments to the whole would prevent such an important measure as the extension of maternity and paternity leave for public employees up to 22 weeks. Because some of the same speakers don't know that, if you don't change the Public Employee's Law, we can hardly take this measure forward. Or they would even prevent the change to get Sergas workers to perceive the average for their guards during their maternity leave. And, as you do not, ladies and gentlemen, the measures adopted in this law in order to introduce legislative changes in order to promote the enforcement of legal requirements by governments in the protection and prevention of forests. Measures in the management of mountains that have to start operating in the short term to get ready at the time of maximum risk. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is absolutely legal, let's see an opportunity for the groups to come up with our proposals. There will be debate, ladies and gentlemen. There is debate; in fact, we are debating today. We will debate and reach agreements, and we have already noted with satisfaction that some groups have taken on the amendments made by the Government to the Fegamp. That's good news, we're going to match a lot of things. You'll see, Mrs. Presas, how there's going to be dialogue. We are not at the forefront of the dialogue. You'll see how there's going to be dialogue. One more year they criticize the rule. It seems that the law we are debating today has been introduced into Parliament at night and through the back door. We seem to have stolen a debate that is now democratic and legally taking place. And especially Mrs. Rodríguez, who came here to talk about a series of issues of the Law of Measures. Mrs. Rodríguez, I told you last year, do you know who was the first to use a law of measures in Spain? Well, it was Minister Solbes with a government of Mr. Felipe González. This law was used by all governments of different political colour. You don't come here to demonize an instrument you're using, too. Is it true it's not the best legislative mechanism? It's true. But it's also true that it can be used. The councilman has already said it, and he has explained to them the Supreme Court's judgments and the Constitutional Court's judgments, which I am not going to reproduce because I explained them to them last year and they are exactly the same. The content of the law, mostly, comes from the essence of the budget. We are before a law that complements the Budget Law, with which we maintain a special causal connection. If you don't want to see it, starting with the drop in rural taxes linked to the primary sector, as well as the bonuses to encourage rehabilitation in historical helmets, tax cuts to boost the purchase of business soil by administrations, the extension of maternity and paternity permits — as I told you before — and the change that will allow Sergas workers to perceive the corresponding average of their guards during their maternity leave. A legislative technique, Mrs. Rodríguez, that you in other communities where they rule are using. I don't know if you know what's going on in the Valencian community. Of course, they'll say, we're in Galicia. Of course, but you say one thing where they rule and another where they're doing opposition. Yeah, yeah, don't say no. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'll explain what's going on in Valencia. In Valencia the Accompaniment Act amends 34 laws, 34 laws! Five more than in 2006. You know, every year, a little more: they remove controls to the government; they transfer powers to the councils by simply resolutions of the councillors; they delete the reports of the Business Council in the creation of new jobs; they even modify laws that are being processed in the Valencian Parliament. The law on the status of persons with disabilities is being dealt with in the Valencian Courts, and so far you can change it through the Law of Measures, like the Law on Family Mediation or the Proposal for a Forest Law, an exercise of absolute lack of respect for the Parliamentary House. And besides you, who comes here to ask for the ESC report, in Valencia, the ESC told them that it was a barbarity that you had been legislating in Parliament and, at the same time, amending from the Government laws that are changing in Parliament. It's absolutely unusual. But of course, you come here to teach how to legislate, and where they rule, they do something absolutely wrong. You came here also to teach us about cuts to officials and public servants. Home!, you come, the socialists, to talk about salary cuts to officials and public employees — as my colleague Mr. Tellado told you earlier — with the shoes you did when they were ruling in Spain, lowering them from 5% — not 5%, some of them even lowered their wages — to officials and public employees. That we have to listen to socialists' lessons about cuts to the officials, that's the last thing we've missed, Mrs. Rodríguez. [[Applause]] You also spoke and said here the whole patch of partial amendments. I thought today was the whole debate. Look, there are partial amendments in which we also agree with you. Of course, we also tabled a partial amendment to make a deduction from the IRPF the fire aid! You also said here that they start to make the scraps in May. They changed their criteria, in 2006, they were talking about the month of March. I'm glad they're moving. Here it seems that the only mistakes we have are those of the People's Party. Well, no, look, we're capable of self-criticizing, but it would also be good if you did it from time to time. Besides that this law entered Parliament on 20 October and we all had the opportunity to read it, study it, analyze it and amend it, there was also an unprecedented situation in Galicia, which was the fire strike of October. Of course there was at that moment a turning point, there was an audience of the president of the board, and the president of the board spoke of three spaces in agreement. One, this own Law of measures, where amendments were to be introduced which were needed in the short term — as I told you earlier — to reach the time of maximum risk with measures taken and which, otherwise, we could not reach. Another, the issue of emergencies and collaboration with Members. Tomorrow we will have the presence of the vice president, who has announced his presence by the president. Thirdly, the study committee, where we will also have the opportunity to reach agreements. The Galician Nationalist Block, in its amendment to its entirety, says that the measures are not consistent with the affected sectors. I don't know what you mean, Mrs. Rodil, since the public employees are talking about in the sectoral bureau and with the trade unions, both for maternity and paternity leave and for Sergas workers. Then, as far as taxes were concerned, the counsellor explained perfectly to him what the subject of taxes was. I'm not going to explain it better, so I'm not going to come in now to tell you what the rise of the IRPF means on the autonomous scale and the rise of the estate tax, which you're talking about. But look, it is that in 2013 we approved this House, with the support of the Socialist Party, to raise the state rate to 20%, Mrs Rodil. We are the autonomous community that has the highest rate and we are the most entering, and it's for assets greater than 700,000 euros. You tell me what more assets you want to record. You say the amount. Well, of course, but they'll have to explain. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] On the tax of large commercial areas, this is already surprising. That the Block — like the PSOE and the officials — which ruled in Galicia and took the area of Industry and Trade, the BNG, which was the Government that licensed Galicia to more square metres of large commercial areas, is now to teach us how to protect small trade. May it be the Block that comes to teach us lessons from this, Mrs. Rodil, it is an absolutely surprising matter. [[Applause]] Look, you said here a lot of fakes, Mrs. Rodil, but one of them is that fire prevention matches are reduced by 28,000 euros. It's fake! You take the departure from the General Directorate of Mounts and you'll see how it increases to 3.5 million euros, Mrs. Rodil. Tell the truth, don't lie to this House and this gallery because everything is recorded and, of course, it can hardly come back. And then you say we change the procedures. Of course, the procedures are changed! Previously, in order to enter a farm that the owner didn't clean, it was necessary to wait for a court order. Now, with the change that we propose, what is meant is that you can enter from the beginning of the file, you don't have to wait years for us to have a judicial resolution. If you'd talked to your mayors, they'd probably tell them what difficulties they have to be able to clean up or clean up the farms in the municipalities they rule. They talk to their mayors, they're sure they'll explain that situation very well. And you say that the bulk of the law is about forest policy and that we stole the debate on the Forest Council. Look, Mrs. Rodil, you presented 43 partial amendments to forest policy. Are you stealing the debate at the Forest Council? But look, of the partial amendments we'll talk about, we'll talk about, because today we're talking about the amendments to the whole. But you know what were the amendments they tabled, and come here saying that we stole that debate when you're taking part in that very debate in this House, it's also a little interesting. Mr Sánchez speaks of rigour and says there is zero euros in the rehabilitation budget. Well, I'd ask him for rigor. Either mind, or you haven't read the budgets. Because look, at the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, it increases by 5% for rehabilitation. There's 33 million euros... and I've heard it with great respect, and I know you don't like to listen. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Here the single thought doesn't work, Mr. Sánchez, now it's up to you to listen. Now it's his turn to listen. [[Applause]] Indeed, as you have not read the budget, I see my obligation to explain to you that for rehabilitation there are 33 million euros, and 10 million more for loans to the municipalities; that is, 43 million euros for rehabilitation, which means an increase of about 13% over 2017. But if we go to 2016, it's 35% more, so I'm asking you for rigor. And, one by two, or you... I know what your proposal for historical helmets is: that they reside in their occupations. But look, among those who reside in the occupations or who come from the voyeur or investment funds, there will be ordinary people or normal people who want to live in historic helmets, right, Mr. Sánchez? [[Applause]] On the amendments to the Land Law you have already explained to you by the Counsellor who they were, but as I see you don't understand, I tell you that by reading the law, because I read the law, it's a matter of reading stopped, there are three changes. One refers to the territorial boundaries changed in the face of a merger of municipalities, for the purposes of the General Plan of Municipal Planning. Logically, it's a technical matter that's there. It amends the organ corresponding to the assignment of land intended for roads in the consolidated urban soil, and proposes a single manager: the municipality. And in relation to the expropriation jury in Galicia, the deadline is extended to resolve the files because they result in clearly insufficient practice, as you will know. Unless you want the Board to make property claims out of failure to meet deadlines, I understand that you will agree with these three issues that are modified in the Land Law. And about the linear infrastructures, tell you that nowhere I read what you're saying, because here it's about railroads, highways, highways, roads, roads, cutters, trails, passersby and livestock routes. Mr. Sánchez, tell me where you came from. But look, for the Tides of Podemos, for you, politics is like the roulette of fortune, when they don't know what to say, instead of buying vocals, we use the anti-corporate wild. The anti-corporate wild is worth anything! We don't agree? PP's business associates. We don't agree? They want to end the companies. That's the anti-corporate wild. And look, I'll explain it with your amendment to the whole thing. About tax deductions in rural areas. In your opinion, we do this so that some business groups will benefit from these deductions. In the forest area, they also say that what is proposed in this law can allow the entry of companies that will enjoy large tax deductions to further control the forest business and market it. The same anti-corporate wild to criticise the measures referred to in the common position on the neighboring mountains. You say the measures we propose are to facilitate and speed up the declaration of the mountains as abandoned or degraded so that they can eventually be managed by companies eager to control the territory. Or when they say we want to usurp the mountains so they can do business. By the way, 5 Sofor, 0 Uxfor, Mr. Sánchez. That model of yours, zero. Ours won't be okay, but there's at least 5 over 0. The truth is, the ratio is quite regrettable. On the maintenance of linear infrastructures, I'm another gift to the electric ones. On the limitation of the sale of walking along the streets of Santiago, his criticism is that it contrasts with the facilities and simplifications that are given to large companies. No, ladies and gentlemen, our objective with this Law of measures is not to favour large companies, business groups, or that speech that you normally have. Then they have the wild of corruption, and you didn't talk here about financing Iran and Venezuela. I guess that doesn't matter, they only interest other types of funding and grey areas. But the grey areas that the Council of Auditors says it has the crowdfunding of En Marea we do not talk about, and about the grey areas that the partners of their friends, Pablo Iglesias and company, that funding comes from Iran and Venezuela, we don't go in either. The wild corruption......the wild corruption... we use it when we're interested. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I understand that you don't like these things, but you have to listen to them, because, hear!, we also hear their things every day and nothing happens, you have to fit in. We have to fit. In politics you have to fit, man!, you will learn with time. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u145	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u146	Our...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u147	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u148	Yes, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Regarding the zero-tax programme in rural areas, there is no doubt that one of the obstacles to the mobilization of rural lands is the tax cost of its transmission. And the People's Party doesn't say so, that in 2006, in the study committee that was done in this House, it was one of the conclusions they reached. And it turns out, Mrs. Rodil, that you now criticize this measure, and yet they say: No, no, you never accept a proposal from the opposition. Look, that's a 2006 study committee proposal, and now you look like zero taxes in rural areas. The first thing they have to do is agree with themselves, and then try to transfer it to us so that we can understand them and we can dialogue and reach agreements because that's very difficult, when one day they say something and the next day they say the opposite. Look, I think it's important to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u150	...if, finally, Mr President, it is important to make positive proposals, leave the anti-corporate wild side by side, leave the wild side of corruption, which may perhaps have some effect on some political rally to speak to the affiliates and supporters of their groups, but in the scope of the proposal it does nothing to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. And the Greeks and the Greeks voted mostly to the People's Party in September 2016 because they know it's the only group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u152	...that can ensure the resolution of your problems. You continue with the anti-corporate wild and the anti-corporate wild, which does not solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. I ask them to join our proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u154	...in a positive way to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u155	Thank you. We have the replication of the amending groups. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u156	I've already said that I've been pushing the debate in the afternoon! And Mrs. Prado, never, never cheats. At first, because we have a limited time, you were obsessed with whether this was the whole debate, whether it was the debate with partial amendments. I think that everyone manages their time as you wish, which has just ended up talking about the debate that said it wasn't what he was playing today, or what he was playing now. I suppose they even want to use the absolute majority to tell us how we have to organize ourselves, how we have to think, how we have to debate within this House. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, Mrs Prado has repeated again in her intervention, even to satiety, which is a legal mechanism, which is a mechanism that sets this Accompaniment Act, this Law on Administrative and Tax Measures. I have the impression, sometimes, that they're trying to convince themselves and themselves that what they're doing is right, because what we're doing today is discussing reforming 20 laws, 20 laws together! We discussed 20 laws together, with proposals for reform, in a single debate, and in parallel to the Budgets Act, because he's in a hurry. You're in a hurry now, for example, to expand — as was said here — the same protection strips you've loaded, which you've reduced. Why? Because we legislate impulses. At that moment, by pure sectarianism—and there would be other interests, I don't know, but centrally by pure sectarianism—there were a few fringes, there were some distances of protection, which a nationalist counselor had made them, who had made them an advisor to the Block, but had to go through the door and quickly undo, like Atila, nothing at all. [[Applause]] And now, after a catastrophe, there's the impulse, which is also very terrible because we're already living in 2006, what happened in this country on the 15th was not something that had come to us again, it had happened in 2006, but you've carried out the measures that were taken at that time to try to prevent it from happening again and now rush us, through the partial amendments of the People's Party, to re-enlarge those protection lines which, I insist, would reduce you in the reform of the Mountain Law through a last provision, of a different law, in the year 2012. You say we question the tool. And I insist, it doesn't seem to us the procedure, nor does it seem democratic, but we consider it a sub-refugee. It seems to us a legal back door, reform, 20 laws blow to a law that accompanies budgets and which in many cases has nothing to do with the measures itself or with the initiatives or programs themselves that are collected in the Budget Law. But if you are so concerned about the partial amendments proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block regarding forest policy, the Fire Prevention Act, we withdraw our amendments, you withdraw from the accompanying law the proposals for reforms and leave this debate for its regulatory processing and so that you can also have a hearing, with periods of public exposure and others that correspond to any legislative process, all entities and groups that are affected or affected by that reform. What we're not going to do, Mrs. Prado, is stay with your arms crossed by watching how they do and defant to their foolishness. So we don't accept or support this form, but we have no choice but to confront them, regardless of the sub-refugee or the way or the door that you decide to use to reform the legislation. We will always be ahead, always!, to propose an alternative according to the ideological principles of the political organization which I represent in this case. They'll always face us. We insist, this is not the way to reform 20 laws, it is neither it nor it has ever been, and always, always, they're going to face us. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, has her turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado del Río, the truth is curious, but you've used more than half of your exposure time — obviously, each one uses you for what you consider appropriate — to justify employment in this way of approving the amendment of 20 laws that nothing or little has to do with revenue and budget spending, and you yourself recognize that it's not the best system. So we tell him again, is it legal? Yeah, it's legal. And besides I said it textually, it's legal, but it doesn't seem to be the best way of ruling, or the best way of reaching agreements, or the best way of meeting the contributions that the opposition can make. I told you at my exhibition, I told you a year ago, and I repeat it again. Look, you come here and it's already the second time he talks to us about other communities and even the state, and we repeat to him that we're in Galicia. And I'm going to show you that we do the same thing as we say because Emilio Pérez Touriño never used it. So give me that back if it's not true, give it back to me, if it's not true. And if you don't, please, when you want to beat me up, bring data, bring data, and then we talk about data, not assumptions they do elsewhere. [[Applause]] Besides, I'll tell you something, Mrs. Paula Prado. That brings us to this House the example of Valencia until it seems to me little... I don't know, not enough. Because it's a community where the People's Party has ruled for many years and I think they have to shut up, because the way to rule the People's Party in Valencia is not an example to lead to any autonomous community, they like it or they don't like it. I'm not an example of anything in the Valencian community, and you've been talking about the Valencian community for quite a while. Look, something else. You speak more or less of what you want, but we socialists, when we have our round of debate — and I know we haven't come to debate the amendments — we have explained to them the causes for which we are going to vote against. So we return the proposal that you make to us and we also bother -- because it's our job and that's why we're paid -- by breaking down point by point each of the articles that contain this law of measures. Don't turn the trigger because it's true. He may like it more or less, but he does. So we've broken them down, let's tear them down, to make the decisions that we consider more appropriate, more timely and that respect our ideology the most. Look, please tell Mr Tellado that I'm in the use of the word and that I'm also upset that I'm continually ra, ra, ra. I'm in the use of the word!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u159	We're finishing up now, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u160	Because that's why we're finishing up. Look, Mrs. Paula Prado, you're talking about a drop in taxes in rural areas and conciliation measures that, if they want to approve anything, they can do it by another procedure. Even at best those things would fall apart. There aren't many others that you're including in this law. I'm going to be tired of telling you until you see those hundreds of millions who say they're for the countryside. Don't tell me that the budget, I don't care, its execution leaves much to be desired, much! therefore, many of the circumstances and things that are happening are by their inaction of the budgets that, year after year, put in the budgets. Look, Mr. President of Galicia in the debate of the state of autonomy said textually: "In the field, where we've been in 2017, memberships have risen to almost 3,300 people, 8% more." But I go to IGE data, CNA-01, Agriculture, Gandery and services related to it and tell us that from October 2016 to October 2017 the reality is that we have 693 affiliates less!, Mrs. Prado del Río. If we look at the EPA data on agricultural occupation, from 2008 to 2016 we have 44,700 less busy in agriculture, Mrs. Prado del Río. And if we measure the declared area for CAP premiums, CEGA, we have to decrease by 25% from 2013 to 2017. Therefore, the data used by the Government, one in two, or not published in official bodies, may have other methods of reporting, or are part of the advertising and propaganda they maintain permanently. He also tells us, Mr. President of the Union, or he says, "We're also working on making new opportunities in the field easier, and this logically happens by enduring the three lines of action we've drawn in recent years." Very nice and very gnarling! "First measure. To persevere in the objective of a rural environment with services similar to those in urban areas, supporting the installation of technology connections of up to 350 megas for companies located in isolated areas." And reality is different again. Tell us that in Spain, 90% of households have access to a 10-megabit internet connection, 2016 ministry data, and Galicia 70%, that is, 20% less. And that the four provinces of Wales close the classification, they're the last ones. But you're still in advertising and propaganda. This is also Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u162	...of the rural road map, which has already allowed us improvements at 1,800 kilometers of 295 municipalities. Do you know what the reality is? In 2017, 12 million less. Improvements in services, better organization and especially the greatest facilities to live in rural areas. That also announces to us the president of the Galician Union in the document I spoke about earlier. And they say, "Young people, many families or people with disabilities who buy a rural housing in areas classified as low population density or anyone who buys, expands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u164	...or permut a plot." Do you think you're doing enough? Really?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u166	Have any studies been developed that facilitate the study on the impact of these measures?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u167	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u168	When I get this data, we'll really talk, and maybe we have to change our mind. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u169	Thank you. Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u170	Well, Mrs. Prado, you said the maternity leave was extended to 22 weeks. Yeah, he said it, I heard it. If so, I would be fulfilling the promise that Mr. Feijóo made in the debate of the State of the Nation. Is that so? Does the maternity leave extend to 22 weeks and therefore Mr. Feijóo fulfill his promise? Is that their intention? Because in the bill it didn't extend to 22 weeks, it doesn't comply with Mr. Feijó's promise. Nor did his amendments extend to 22 weeks, and Mr. Feijóo's promise is not fulfilled. So, if you want the first deal, in the tide amendments, we take the floor to Mr. Feijóo and extend it to 22 weeks. And if they want them to extend to 22 weeks, they vote for the amendment of En Marea, Mrs. Prado. I understand that, you claimed not to be taught either the Socialist Party or the BNG. I'm how I feel too when you come to teach law enforcement lessons. We don't get law enforcement lessons from Gürtel's party, the corruption party, Mrs. Prado. Yes, yes, it is. [[Interruptions.]] We do not accept lessons on compliance with the People's Party law. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, you misunderstood, I didn't say there was any rehabilitation, what I said was that it was published, said, a draft law on rehabilitation, and in the draft budget law nothing is said of the law on rehabilitation, nothing. So, that's actually forecasting, planning, etc. Well, it's not. What I said about rehabilitation is that despite the budgets you announce, at the end of the year, 15 percent were executed. Of 17 million, you left unexecuted 14. That's the rehabilitation model of the People's Party. Maybe that's what they wanted to cover up. Or they wanted to cover up when you're housing owners and they have them in ruins, like in Betanzos, who buy eight and start acting six years later in three. That's the rehabilitation model of the People's Party. So I miss that, if you're working on a rehabilitation law that is intended to be passed in 2018, no mention is made in memory, in attachments or in any kind of measure. That's what I told him. Then he justified himself from the lack of measures against the fires he passed through, a wave of fires passed. And that had to happen, burning 50,000 hectares and killing victims, so that you took seriously modifying the forest development societies, taking seriously the protection bands, taking seriously the management of the territory. What were they doing during the previous eight years, Mrs. Prado? That's the failure of what I'm talking about. Failure of his government. You've been ruling at this last stage eight, but there's only one and a half legislate where they haven't ruled, and the situation in the country is what it is, and it's not solved by tax deductions. Look, the situation in the agricultural sector is dramatic, it has repeated countless times. The latest data say that only 4.68 % of landowners are under 40 years old, and 59% are sixty or more. That's a dramatic situation. The situation of abandonment, ageing etc. of the farm is not solved by these tax deductions. And of course we use the wild of corruption. I don't know if it seems that way, no matter what, right? Of course, then what happens and corruption doesn't matter, it's happened, it's not interested. The AP-9 is then privatized to friends, at a friend's price; the electrics are privatized to friends; then Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa enters the Electric Network — yes, if he laughs when I talk about Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, Mr. Varela, charging €180,000, and then there are turning doors. But where does that affect, Mrs. Prado? It doesn't affect you, but people do affect you, does it? Exactly everything that gets stolen and looted, allowed or done for you, affects everyone. And then they say, the business wild. But look, you just passed a business initiative promotion law, which says it's to avoid the relocation of companies and to encourage the implementation of companies, which hid behind measures to benefit miners, electricity and the Ence. It's not a wild, it's the policy that you're making against the interests of people and in favor of a particular group of companies! Let's also explain to Touro people who are happy with their model, with their Katanga model, yes, sir. That's the business wild! I don't know if I can finish, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u171	Yeah, yeah, I love it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u172	I was just telling Mrs. Prado something about Iran, wasn't I? Was it Iran? Well, of course, we're talking about Iran, yeah, yeah. So when I bring here a trial of the Gürtel seen for a sentence where they say what they say; trial seen for the prosecution's report, you testify to me with urban legends, Mrs. Prado. You answer with urban legends. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, they don't have any credibility there. We're not the same as you. You're the party to corruption, not us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting amendments to the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u173	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to vote on amendments to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 19960), to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u174	We are now voting on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia (Doc. # 19962), to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u175	Finally, we voted on the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of En Marea (Doc. # 19935), to the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-20-DSPG048.u176	After the vote, open the doors. The debate today is over. Good night. Tomorrow, at ten o'clock in the morning, we'll have another full.
