ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified the inattentiveness of Raúl Fernández Fernández, with a health problem. We wish him his prompt recovery. And before we get on the agenda, we also tell all Members of Parliament and all the workers in Parliament who started the influenza vaccination campaign and the medical services are at their disposal to make use of vaccination. Preventive measures, it would be good for everyone. Let's start with the legislative text. Comprehensive discussion of the draft law on public shows and recreational activities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u2	This bill has been amended to the full Parliamentary Group on Return, document 18398. Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor for the introduction of the bill. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. It brings Galician Union to this plenary the Bill of Public Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia, which is the first law in our Autonomous Community to establish a generic, up-to-date and global regulation in an area where it has not until now, at least one autonomous regulation. The first thing I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that this text aims to be from the very beginning the result of a broad consensus and a broad consultation process. Of course, the intention was to provide Galicia with a general regulation that aims to cover from the great events that are held in Galicia, the great public shows, to the multitude of popular verbenas that also take place, and in the midst of many public shows of different fluency and different repercussions, but which, in any case — and as you all know — have a very important impact in Galicia. Of course, this would be impossible without the participation of all those who will be affected in one way or another. So we try to reconcile interests that were often countered, to meet the demands of the sector and also to meet the demands of citizenship and of the users and recipients of all these shows. I believe that at least the consultation process — and I believe that there is a high level of consensus — has been an objective that has been achieved. So you can make an idea, you've spoken to a lot of people. To highlight some: the Federation of Businesses of Conference Rooms, Dance and Discotheques of Galicia; the Confederation of Businesses of Hostalerie of Galicia; the Galaga Orchestras Association; the Association of Businesses of Verbena Galaga; the Galaga Association of Musical Companies; associations of neighbors; of course, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Some suggestions from many management centres with sectoral competences affected in one way or another by this bill were found in the Autonomic Administration. Finally, we try to collect as many sensitivity as possible, as many suggestions as possible. And, of course, this draft was subject to public exposure at the Transparency Portal. It's just as much as saying that all the citizenship of Galicia had the opportunity to participate in their approaches or suggestions. A total of 67 allegations were received. We believe that for a new creation regulation that affects a considerable number of people and groups there are not many allegations. So it means that, in principle, the text, perhaps for that task of consensus and prior consultation, already had a degree of acceptance. I must therefore also thank those parliamentary groups, on behalf of the Government of Greece, who have decided, regardless of the approaches and amendments that may be made during the processing procedure, not to present amendments to the whole, which were all the groups but one. By entering into the content of the project, as they were progressing, we wanted to give you a double perspective: paying attention to the general interest of citizenship — at the end many people in one way or another will be passive recipients or subjects of the provisions of this law — and also trying to reconcile the different interests of many professional sectors to those who will affect the entry into force of this law. He's got a lot of news. By marking those that have a clearer impact, I'd like to stop at three. First. The law seeks, seeks, and I believe it reaches the protection of children and young people. An explicit reference is made to the obligations already introduced in the current legislation on the prevention of the consumption of alcoholic beverages in minors and also complements and extends the restrictions already provided for in other regulations on access to public shows and recreational activities of minors. Secondly, there is a pretension to seeking the maximum security and defence of people who attend public shows. We collect in this text the rights and obligations of the people who attend these events, but also of the artists, also obligations above all of the organizers, and also rights, and we provide for a sanctioning regime, which is directed above all — not exclusively, but especially — to ensure security during public shows and also security around the venues where these shows are held. With regard to safety, I would particularly like to highlight the consideration as a very serious infringement of the fact that it exceeds the maximum public capacity, and in addition to this accentuated gravity and also in sanctions when this entails a serious risk to the security of goods and, above all, of people. We have established sanctions that can reach up to EUR 600,000 and, of course, the prohibition — which can be definitive — to never carry out such activities again for the organizers who commit these infringements. We also regulate the access control service in this line. It is mandatory to have self-qualified personnel in accordance with autonomous regulations and also to regulate their own monitoring and security services in certain types of shows. We also collect the assumptions that these activities have an obligation to have a prior emergency and self-protection plan. And the security requirements for event organizers go beyond that. Of course, you have to have complaint sheets for the employment of the people who want it. Minimum information data to be provided and the organizers' publicity for the events they promote are set. For example, in relation to the latter aspect, the percentage of entries that are put on sale to the public through the distribution establishments should be explained; if it has not been established, it is understood that they have a minimum of 60% of the localities available for sale; and, of course, the resale of entries is also prohibited and sanctioned. The third axis of the three I referred to before is protection against discrimination when it comes to access to public shows and also protection of animals and protection of the environment. The law establishes, for example, the prohibition of any kind of public spectacle or recreational activity that incites or may promote discrimination on the basis of race, gender identity, sexual orientation, religion, opinion, disability or any other condition or personal or social circumstances, and establishes the corresponding penalties for such infringements. All events that violate animal protection regulations or those that cannot guarantee the compensation of property, especially those that are under cataloguing included in Galicia's cultural or natural heritage, are equally prohibited. And there are also special precautions for the right of admission, to prevent it from happening what it used to say: any kind of discrimination against persons who may limit or even prevent the right of access to public shows and recreational activities. Another novelty that will prevent the existence of first or second audiences is the general ban, as I said before, on the resale of tickets, including the online resale. This prohibition is set out in Article 18 of this bill. By stopping a little more in the news that reaches the show sector more directly and recreational activities, as well as the responsibilities of the municipalities and the autonomous administration itself, which are also established, I would like to highlight the following. First. The administrative intervention regime is the attention to the particularities of the territory where the public spectacle is to be held. A responsible statement is established as the main administrative intervention regime. We have amended Law 9/2013 of 19 December of Galicia's economic entrepreneurship and competitiveness to simplify the processing of permits in respect of shows; in addition, this is in line with what European legislation prescribes. And, in addition, given the very particular and special impact that everything in Galicia has to do with the celebration of verbenas and popular parties that organize groups of neighbors, party committees, they already clarify in a special way — I believe that they are perfectly clarified — the procedures that must be followed in these cases, collecting in addition to the sensitivity and many suggestions that have been made and known on these last few dates about the need for the law to be perfectly delineated everything that has to do with the requirements of celebrations and popular verbenas. Therefore, neighborhood groups and party committees will simply have to submit a responsible statement, together with the commitment to hire an insurance — this is provided for in the regulations — or accreditation documentation that this insurance is available for the organization of these events. This would be the general practice — I say — very simplified, and I think with minimum guarantees that are the desirable ones and those that demand the law, and that, when it comes to activities that include installation assemblies subject to the declaration responsible for the licence, it will have to process it to the person who is the holder of the installation, i.e. the employer, and it is not made that burden on the party commissions or neighboring groups. As far as the municipalities are concerned, it must be said that they are now performing new functions in the field of competition in public shows. The possibility of being the municipalities themselves, without needing to seek authorization, such as it has until now been passed to the Autonomic Administration, is introduced as a novelty, those who decide, within certain requirements which will be laid down by regulation, extensions or reductions on the schedule of activities according to special circumstances and certain periods of the year. As you know, the general schedule is marked from the Galician Union in a June 2005 order and what will be done, once the law enters into force, is regularly amended also, according to all the groups concerned, the timetables for establishing general schedules and then — I insist — will give the municipalities the ability, without requiring each time to seek authorization from the Autonomous Community, to extend or reduce these general schedules. The preliminary draft also includes the possibility that the municipalities may authorize extraordinary activities, as well as the obligation to approve an inspection plan for shows, activities or establishments open to the public to which the municipal licence is given or to which the responsible declaration is given. What we are trying to do here, ladies and gentlemen, is to involve in the fulfilment of the conditions set out in the submitted documentation and in the responsible statement. This results in greater security and a planned inspection plan that should not lead to greater problems. Third and last. Also — as I said — obligations are laid down for the autonomous administration. It must be the administration of Galician board, the autonomous administration, which will drive the creation — and we will of course do so — of the Committee on Public Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia — as provided for in Article 10 of the rule. We will, of course, invite Fegamp, invite people from the different sectors affected. It will be an advisory body, but it will also make proposals and follow-up, especially in the early stages of the application of the law, of all its provisions, so that this initial consensus with which it is born also presides over all its application, and also the changes and proposed amendments that were necessary. And last of all, it's going to be the Galician board that's responsible for creating and carrying out a register of companies and sector establishments, which we also consider very necessary. Logically, we will lack the collaboration of the municipalities through the documentation they receive from responsible statements, especially to go and create this record, keep it and know exactly who it is doing and what it is doing in the field of public shows at every moment in Galicia and in every one of its municipalities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these are the most relevant news of a bill that, I insist, has been subject to many consultations, has gathered a lot of suggestions and what it is to have a vocation — it is true — in a sector with so many cases. Then there'll have to be a regulation, a regulatory development, but it's also necessary a general regulation with a range of laws, and that's what we want with this project. You know that Galicia has exclusive competence in the field of public shows, a transfer made in 1996, and so this may make the need for this regulation even more evident and necessary. It was time to establish its own legislation that adapted to the peculiarities that Galicia has and adapted to the peculiarities above all of certain celebrations that have a special, special, as I said before, incidence in Galicia and some peculiarities that do not occur in other territories of the State. So we try to take into account the diversity of situations and the need to guarantee the rights of people, the assistant public, their fundamental security and also clearly mark the obligations of public show organizers. Therefore, I am only grateful for the contributions made — I insist — by many sectors, by many groups, by many groups, for all those that can be done in the process of amendments if, as the Government hopes, it goes beyond this initial phase, and among all of us having a law that — I say — was time to have it and that is born with a vocation of regulatory development. It will be necessary — as soon as possible here, the law itself says in its explanatory statement, but also in certain general aspects with continuity and vocation to regulate an activity that in Galicia — they know above all those who are dedicated to it — has a great impact, has a lot of economic impact and has a lot of social impact. So it was a duty to regulate it, and that's what we're doing now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u4	Thank you, Vice President. The defence of the amendment to the full refund. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, Mr. Alfonso Rueda, we agreed on a starting point: in need; there was already time of course; the need is unquestionable, the need to regulate such a wide and complex sector. This law, this project, we believe it must be returned, because we have found many defects difficult to remedy. We believe, moreover, that partial amendments will not remedy the waves we detect, because either they will be cosmetics or they will either leave the legal text inefficient, with consequent delay with respect to other communities. This law has been developed in virtually all autonomous communities of the state. If a more silent law is to be sought, the restructuring must of course be enormous. Let's explain why. We consider it unrealistic. It's true that it's a vast sector, it's true that regulation is very complex, but it's not done with feet on the ground from our point of view. And we'll explain it for the kid. There is little development, and there is certainly a noticeable and worrying loss in the participation of citizenship. You speak of consensus, we say that it has not been properly agreed. He listed with which groups, with which sectors they communicated, but we know that there are many affected sectors that were neither called nor heard nor, of course, established any kind of dialogue. To set an example, we have to talk about the Consumers' Association. It's important that the Consumer Association is part of a law that affects a lot of people. You haven't talked to a lot of promoters and agents involved. We haven't talked to any people in the so-called creative industry, since then with no association of cultural industries, nor with many other associations in the show sectors. Obviously they lack points of view and look good. How can one develop, with minimal encounters, minimal technical and political meetings, a debate that has been pending for decades, as you said? Leisure has changed a lot, very much. It is essential to legislate, to create a regulatory framework consistent with the current reality and taking into account all those involved. The leisure sector has grown a lot, but, Mr. Rueda, not all leisure is business, and this is important. You only speak and in the law you only talk about mercantilist aspects. It's true that part has enormous economic importance; 2% of large companies, large orchestras have a lot of economic importance; they've certainly had an agreement for very little time. But there is another part that performs other kinds of activities, artistic activities of social transformation, of free and free expression at times, which cannot be recorded with administrative procedures or strong economic sanctions; all of them must be present and have voice as well. In a situation of exhausting crisis that left a desolate, devastated landscape in the economic, social and cultural structure, the Act of Shows and Activities should have a relevant updateer role. We don't think he's got it. There is no recovery, no increase, special attention to companies with social responsibility, for example. Another question: there is a key that is the balance, the balance between security, which is necessary; the balance between freedom, which is essential; and the balance between coexistence. When we talk about these three balances, we talk about freedom of thought, we talk about freedom of creation, we talk about freedom of expression, and we have to take very seriously that these balances are produced; it seems that the balance is unbalanced. There's a lot of the law that's very detailed, especially when it comes to the sanctioning issue, but there's a part of the law that's outlined and not developed at all. So we believe that citizenship is free, free to choose its form of leisure and fun, and the promoters of shows to make a wide offer, without any limit to the legal obligations, of course, derived from general interest, for reasons of security, coexistence and respect for people's rights. It's a law, Counselor, very abstract. It aims to match, put in the same box shows like a monologue, a musical performance, with big events of a complex scale. This premise is wrong: to attempt to equate non-profit activities, only recreational activities or simply social dynamisation that play a key role in the socialization of communities. The rule should be very careful to differentiate what kind of activity we're dealing with. It must be said that the law, at the beginning, at the beginning, has no definition, there is a lack of definition. It is not clearly defined that it is a public spectacle, which is an occasional, extraordinary spectacle, fixed or possible recreational activities, public institutions, facilities, open spaces, owners of the establishment, organizers, artists, performers, performers... there is a problem with exclusion and inclusion, with whom it should be, it is not valid. When everything's worth, it's not worth anything, and they're not worth the same demands for a big event as for a small performance. The definition. By setting an example, it includes non-profit artistic and cultural activities in the public show category. This is disproportionate and it injures rights. The law also does not allow free and free expression, the law does not exclude acts organized by civic groups and endangers small groups and intermediate spaces. Intermediate spaces are needed so that many people who want to approach or dedicate themselves to culture in their multiple variants can take their first steps or get close to places where other events do not arrive. Balance or avoid the gap between rural and urban, eliminate those cracks, it should be. It's incredible and almost horrifying that these kinds of activities are included in the category of public shows, as you can seriously confuse their nature and artistic and cultural condition of creation with free knowledge. On the other hand, there are no other kinds of issues, such as not taking into account something that is fundamental to us, the law is very restrictive. When we were talking about the balance between security, freedom and coexistence, we believed that this law could collect very good parameters that have to do with principles. When we make amendments to the whole, we refer clearly and above all to the philosophy of the law — the other things can be changed on time — but we detect an amalgam of inadequacies, an absolute necessity of a law that really values the differences in our community with respect to others and gives satisfaction to the problems that are currently being posed and that principles that really deal with the evolution of our society are accepted. We are talking, for example, about the balance between these three principles and that freedom of creation, thought and expression is contemplated, not only security, but also others. We believe that in the beginning of the law it must be essential to provide citizenship with a leading role, ensuring that regulation does not restrict freedoms, to facilitate people holding and organising shows and recreational activities, so that only those who objectively require them are subject to license or authorization. You were also talking about counsel or commission. The council and commission are undeveloped, you don't know who's going to be part of it; you just talk about considering Fegamp, municipalities and municipalities, but the regulatory link shouldn't numb essential freedoms, and we believe they're also tools that we need in the right to access. He spoke of adapting to European legislation. Yes, it is true that it is adapted to European legislation, especially as it relates — and cannot be otherwise — to the commercial issue, but it must be said that everything is not commodity, it must be said that not all is speculation, leisure and business, not all must be subject to market dynamics; artistic and cultural expression has another dimension and must be contemplated. When talking at European level about minimal administrative intervention and simplification, the new law should establish a general system of communication in recreational activities, but, for example, the application for licences or authorisations should only be necessary when it comes to an activity which is part of an important risk activity. But also — excuse for the coup — who will regulate the commission?, who will make it conform?, what representativeness will it have?, what will its functions be? Shouldn't there be a council that operated as a well-structured body for coordination and inter-administrative cooperation and public participation? How do you just outline it? This is indeterminate. This, like other elements of the law, leaves a wide margin of legal insecurity, very wide. To increase legal security, the law needs activities that are included in the law to be established, who is inside and who is outside, and this is not appreciated. His law is very abstract, very not concrete and very extensive, not by extensive exhaustive, not by extensive is realistic. And yes, it details a wide range of infringements and sanctions, very wide, with an incredible lack of proportionality, especially if we compare it with other autonomous communities. The sanctions system is huge. Of course, there are many agents not consulted by you who demand a real adequacy of the regulations to the basic criteria of the commercial standard, in this case the Code of Commerce, when defining what is a public establishment, because it is not defined; in definitions there is no discrimination between that it is a show of great format and small size. It doesn't make much sense for the Council to take such scrutiny of everything that will be done. It's good to check it out, but it would be more logical, in this state of affairs, to take care of mass events, not small ones. For that, the municipalities exist, and there must be a homogeneous regulation. We must save ourselves from the danger of recording with administrative procedures and economic sanctions activities that have nothing to do with offer and shows and recreational activities, but instead with aesthetic creation, with education, with the free exercise of intellectual criticism, production and collective knowledge. Nothing is said of this social fringe, for us of our first need. To finish, we say we need other ways, a need for different communication prior to the competent administrative authority by the administrations, much more agile, much simpler, and of course safeguarding the rights of access and above all the right of access to culture, which you in recent years have severely punished with brute cuts and with obvious consequences. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Round of non-amendant parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u7	Good morning. I would like to begin my intervention by expressing my gratitude and congratulations to the workers of Bershka and the CIG for their exemplary struggle against that giant, this multinational Index, in that brave battle that this giant won. [[Applause]] It's an example for the working class, the way we have to go to conquer, to regain lost rights and freedoms, taken. Let's go to the preliminary draft debate. In fact, the BNG did not present a whole amendment, a refund amendment; if we present many amendments, because it seems to us to be a very better text, a text that has numerous deficiencies, weaknesses and contradictions, because it is also true that the reality that addresses this law is very complex, very different, and there is a pretense of solving issues that are certainly very different. So the first criticism we would have to make to you, Mr Rueda, is something that is very common in all the legal texts that bring to Parliament, which is the lack of transparency and information. You assume that there was a lot of transparency and a lot of consensus, but we certainly didn't see it in all the documentation, and because, besides, the more legislation there is about transparency and good government in reality less information and less participation we see. And, in addition, a participation that is restricted to certain professional groups that were actually given audiences — business associations in the hospitality sector, party rooms, verbenas and so on — in an apparent, formal participation, which then does not fit into the acceptance of their proposals and suggestions, to which they literally apply the roller. You said you submitted 67 claims and it turns out that in the report there are 63 rejected; then the figure is not worth us, because, in fact, by taking some partially from the Fegamp, which they accepted, the rest literally passed the knee, passed it over; 63, of 67, rejected. If this is called participation and consensus, of course we don't see it anywhere. There are a lot of professional groups, for example in the music field, in the audiovisual field, in general in the cultural field, which have not been consulted. We also miss the consultation with an association like that of technical producers of Galicia shows, which, in addition, there is a specific degree of vocational training that is not covered by the law. And, above all, there was no information or participation directed to non-profit entities and groups, which will be very affected by the law in a negative sense if it is approved as it is. I refer, for example, to cultural and neighbouring associations; if the consultation appears to the Federation, but not to the numerous neighbouring groups in the country; even there are different federations — youth, women, music, traditional dance, cinema clubs, etc. — which will be greatly affected by law enforcement. And it also seems to us, really, very controversial, and even contradictory to the words that you have expressed here, the justification for the need not to dictate to the Economic and Social Council, with the argument — you see — that regulated matters are not directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development. You have just said here that these are activities that have a great economic and social impact — their words in this audience — and it turns out your journalists say they are subjects that are not directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development and that public shows and related activities do not have a very important impact on the Greek economy. A second question that we want to point out and to what you have referred to, implicitly recognizing that the truth is that they haven't worked very much in these years—they have continued nine years in the Government—is the normative void. Of course, there is a normative vacuum, because, as you said, Galicia has exclusive competences in this matter, which are from 1996 and have passed more than twenty years and have not been able to make a specific standard, and so far there was regulation and there is still a very different and very disparate regulation that regulates all these issues. And other communities have applied and made their own legislation for years. It is also true that many times in response to tragedies, because, in the end, this issue is very directly related to tragic events that somehow force administrations to take action. So, you assume that you're often pioneers and the most modern and the most advanced, and we assume that it's not by accident that you haven't made your own rule, or we also assume that you don't expect others to approve them later copy them, don't you? Because that's also taking a lot here: to make a rule in Madrid and after you copy it here at the foot of the letter, as they did with animal welfare and with many others, and so they go out as they go out, that they have to be subjected to multiple amendments. We believe that the most important problem that the text of this law has — and that is why we think it is very better to expect that in the debate process it can be done — is the pretension — a really difficult intention to fit and resolve — of putting into this law very diverse realities, because the bill refers to a wide variety of activities, setting common obligations and requirements for very diverse and very disparate realities, and we want to draw attention to the need to clearly distinguish activities and shows that are clearly of a profit of other activities that organize over all associations that do not have this nature. And in this sense, it seems to us that it is a very better text, that we have to adapt it to the reality of Greece, that it is different from other realities and other territories, because we are a different country and we have a multiplicity, multitude, thousands of cultural and recreational activities and small shows every day -- we are at this time, for example, in the Magisteriums -- that they have a difficult fit into a law like this, although it is true that you made a last disposition that is a sort of chest of drawers, where they try to put in there almonds and partial solutions to fit these very diverse realities. But we think that this paragraph too is much better when it comes to verbenas or little shows, for example fewer than 100 people of assistance, who don't solve this issue. Another aspect in which we understand that the text of the law needs to be improved is what it has to do with the powers of the municipalities. This project, as has also happened in animal welfare, what it does is to transfer it and assign it to the municipalities that previously corresponded to the Galician Union, to the autonomous administration, for example with regard to the expansion and regulation of schedules, inspection or sanctions, and we really believe that this burden of competence can create many difficulties of application. You know perfectly well what the municipal reality of Galicia is, the diversity of municipalities in the country, and, if it's difficult to apply a rule like this to the cities of the country, imagine the small municipalities of less than 1,000 inhabitants like they're going to have to look at, for example, have to have a plan of inspection for this type of activity, unless, of course, the goal — that at best that is — is to outsource this type of control and inspection functions with companies that do this type of work. We think this kind of work has to be done by the Public Service. The report of the Local Administration Directorate-General itself refers precisely to this issue. "Whenever new powers are given, you have to provide for the necessary resources to ensure the financial adequacy of local authorities," but you do not resolve it in the text of the law. For example, when it comes to extending and reducing schedules on general time — Article 5(f) — which is currently autonomous competence and which will be passed to the municipalities; or authorizations for public shows and recreational activities of an extraordinary nature, which also becomes municipal competence. You introduce an article in which it is said that the Board and the deputies "can provide" support; to us that solution doesn't do us any good, and in the amendments that we present to you what we propose is that "they will have to lend", the Board and the Members "should lend", they can't "can lend", because, Counsellor, there are lots of councils that will not be able to do this inspection work anymore, because they don't even do it now, almost with difficulties, the larger councils. Another question — and I am not going to go into any other minor issues now — that seems to us important in this general debate is what has to do with the legal regime of administrative intervention, of what you have also talked about in your intervention, where we see a lot of contradictions and a lot of confusion, which, in addition, with this text, if it remains, of course it will be enlarged. This Parliament has approved -- I don't know if they have something that -- because they have this -- it's already customary -- Law 9/2013, of Galicia's economic entrepreneurship and competitiveness, to establish a legal regime for opening up economic establishments and activities, which has also been presented as the great panacea. [[Murmurs.]] Well, this law, which was going to solve all the problems, established a general regime of prior communication. In 2016 the Land Law and the Decree approving the Land Law Regulation, are again betting on the prior communication regime, and also in 2016 the regulation of that law of 2013, which again establishes the legal regime of prior communication as the general legal regime for economic activities. And, curiously, you now, in these bills, modify that legal regime and establish a new one; that is, this legal regime that was established in 2013, which was also established in the Land Law, in the Land Law Regulation, in the Rules of the Entrepreneurship Law, and that the councils have also begun to apply it from 2013, it turns out that they now change it in this law, establishing as a legal procedure the responsible declaration regime, with which we will have, Mr. Rueda, a genuine galimacy, a genuine guirigai of activities that will be subject to the responsible declaration regime and activities that will be subject to the prior communication regime. And this really creates a lot of insecurity, a lot of confusion, starting with the professionals working in the municipalities, for the private sector technicians and for citizenship in general, who won't know, for example, in the case of a coffee shop that has a bread order, that regime is going to apply, because here we have an economic activity on the one hand and a recreational activity on the other. What regime will apply in this case? It gives the impression that you in a legislative board in one way, in another, in another, in a contradictory way, you don't talk to each other, you don't coordinate with each other. So this question we think is one that needs to be reviewed, that needs to be corrected, by setting up a single regime, that we understand that, by clarity and by clarifying things for the people who work in this field, it would have to be what has been applied since 2013, which is that of previous communication, which is, in addition, what is also asked by Fegamp in his allegations. In addition, there is the galimatias and guirigai that you don't even clarify, because the General Emergency Directorate's report on the opportunity of the regulatory proposal says: "The preliminary draft refers in terms of the administrative intervention regime to the provisions of Galicia's Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness Act." Good. Then they make a unique last disposition that almost brings down half or more of that law. They state that they refer to the time it incorporates into the last provision a number of amendments; in particular, it establishes the declaration responsible as a general system of administrative intervention. This is a report from the Directorate-General for Emergency Affairs. Then the Economic and Financial Memory of the Directorate-General for Emergency Affairs says: "Consume the single legal regime for the exercise of activities in Galicia, this law collects prior communication as a general regime for administrative intervention." I mean, what general address do you have, that in a report says one thing and in the next it says the opposite? I think I should look at this, eh! You should speak to the head of the Emergency Management. Of course, it's already seen that the General Emergency Director very much in reality is not, because we've seen the discharge that you have in emergencies, which has been shaped on the 15th, in those days of the fire crisis, the evil that works. But really, this is very serious, that the same address makes two reports and one says that the regime that establishes the law is the prior communication and on the next page says that the regime that sets the law is the responsible statement. But what kind of advice is this? It's not that they don't coordinate between the different councils, it's that in their own council, in the same general direction, they say one thing and the opposite. So this is serious, and this must be solved, and we hope it will be resolved in the entire process of law. I'm not talking anymore about the issue of child protection, which we also think is very much better about the subject of age, that children under 16 will be accompanied by a responsible person. You'll tell me: a 15- or 14-year-old boy I don't think he goes to the concerts, doesn't go to the shows accompanied by his tutors or responsible people. These issues need to be resolved. The question of participation must also be resolved. A lot of business has to be solved. In any case, our will is to work, unless the text is returned, but working on the presentation to improve; we present more than thirty allegations, and we hope that in that process we can be enriched, if you can improve, if you can correct, if you can amend, if you can finally have a law that is up to date and that allows you to overcome this delay that we have more than twenty years of approval of a specific legislation on activities and shows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Today we're going to talk about public shows and recreational activities, a law on public shows and recreational activities after it's been twenty-one years since the Galician Union has jurisdiction over the subject, which was transferred in 1995. Both in the explanatory statement itself and in the economic and financial memory itself that you present to us are told that, given the time elapsed since that transfer, it is necessary to establish an own legislation which adapts to the special circumstances of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and homogenizes the various aspects dispersed in various regulations, and also says that this law will fill the existing regulatory void at present and complete the state regulation. The fact is that, after that, the Directive 2006 on services in the internal market had entered into force, which was transposed into the Spanish legal system in 2009 and incorporated into the German order in 2010, without the said law being carried out. All autonomous communities, except Galicia, have approved their respective laws; it's more: in some cases they're already modifying those that were originally approved. That is, sixteen of the seventeen autonomous communities in Spanish territory today have a law that regulates public shows and recreational activities, and only lacks Galicia and the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla. By the way, Counselor, these twenty-one years, seventeen years governed by the Government of the People's Party and nine uninterruptedly by Mr. Núñez Feijóo and you being a competent advisor in this matter. The most paradoxical still is, if you can imagine, that they were already embodying electoral commitments by the People's Party in 2009 and 2012, but there they are in breach of their electoral promise. But in 2016, when they don't appear, it turns out that it's when they present it. Anyway, welcome. It is curious that they pass the bill on 14 September 2017 and on 5 October 2017 — i.e. 20 days later — they publish a Resolution of 26 September 2017 so that the criteria and procedures are approved to authorize the occupation of public port territory to hold public shows or recreational activities in the autonomous ports of competition of this body. I'll explain later in the replica. The truth is, everything seems a little surreal. In any case, we hoped that since the Autonomous Community we would have brought us a bill that had been totally delineated, that it would be clear and transparent, in agreement with the sector, adapted to the reality of our country and that it would compile all the dispersed regulations that are regulated in different regulations. But what we have found is a vague and unclear document, at least legally dispersed, which is in nine rules, which you refer to: the Law of Entrepreneurship and Economic Competitiveness of Galicia, the Decree regulating the activity and control of access to public shows and recreational activities, the Decree of the Single Regulation on Integrated Regulation of Economic Activities and Opening of Public Establishments, the Law amending various laws of Galicia for their adaptation to the 2006 Directive, the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, the Decree approving the Catalogue of Public Shows and Recreational Activities of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the Decree amending the Decree on the basis of the Catalogue, the Order determining the opening and closing times of public shows and establishments in the Autonomous Community and the Law on Private Security. We, in one of our amendments, are asking for a consolidated text to be approved in one year so that it collects autonomous regulations on public shows and recreational activities that develop in establishments or spaces open to the public. And we hope it won't take another twenty-one years to pass it and apply it. [[Applause]] You also tell us — and it also appears in the document itself — that they bring us a document that is in agreement with the sector. But the truth is that we are so consensual that we do not see it — and my predecessors in the word also have it as manifesto. It has been referred to nine organizations, you think, representative of the sector — the criterion is the one of the board's own. They answer three. In the public exhibition process, through the website, they also claimed three, which are the Franz Weber Foundation, the Galaga Association of Musical Companies, Federation of Festival Chamber Entrepreneurs, Dance and Discotheques of Galicia, Association of Verbena Galaga Entrepreneurs and Association Galaga de Orchestras. By the way, there are no associations of neighbors or associations of consumers and users, which we think is very important for them to have something to say about this law. But still, they present 53 claims, and you say you are in agreement with the sector, and it turns out that they partially accept one of them, partly; of 53, 1; the Fegamp presents 13 and accepts 4; of 13, 4. So, very consensually, under the Socialist Parliamentary Group's approach, it doesn't seem to go out of this law. Bring us a document that provides an attached documentation. First of all, reports from other areas of self-government are not included where the bill has an important impact. The General Legal Counsel of the Galician Council itself says: "The regulation contained in the preliminary draft may have an indirect impact on other areas of competence as well as autonomous ownership, such as, for example, health, promotion of sport, casinos, games and betting, environment and landscape, among others." We also don't know why the General Directorate for Planning and Budgets report, against what it usually does with other bills, does not show its clear, favourable or explicit sense of compliance with this bill. You'll probably have a chance to explain. The report of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, which, among its functions, is not included in the report on draft laws that meet the local regime or propose criteria for collaboration and coordination for the different public administrations to carry out their functions of economic, technical and administrative cooperation. Home, I didn't remember you taking about eight years to convene the Galician Local Cooperation Commission; I don't know if that's the reason, because it won't be the reason why you don't be given powers to the municipalities, do you, Counsellor? I'm sure that's not the reason. The General Legal Counsel itself states that the bill contains a direct attribution of powers by law to the councils, and that it constitutes a competence of the councils. For example, in the authorisation to extend schedules — which you have done correctly in your intervention — authorizations when they are of an extraordinary nature; inspection and control functions; carry out, instruct and solve sanctioning files; actions necessary for the proper development of competences, among others. The Juridical Counsel itself refers to Law 5/2014, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration. I will not bore it with the reading of the whole article, but I will read Article 1, paragraph 3, "Competitions of the municipalities assigned by autonomous legislation", which says: "For these purposes, the preliminary drafts of the laws referred to in the previous line shall be accompanied by an economic memory prepared by the competent councillor on the basis of the matter, in which the impact of the new allocation of powers on the financial resources of the public administrations concerned and the fulfilment of the principles of stability, financial sustainability and efficiency of the service or activity is reflected. The law must provide for the necessary resources to ensure the financial adequacy of local authorities, without which it can in any case lead to greater expenditure on public administrations." The Socialist Parliamentary Group also proposes amendments to this effect so that the competent councillor can sit with the Fegamp and with the Members and establish which powers are transferred, as well as the costs incurred. I mean, once again the municipalities have to assume competence without the transfer of the funding necessary to carry them out, even if they have contemplated it in various laws. But it's true that you use the regulations when it's appropriate, that is to say, according to the rules. Why don't you include in the Budget Project for 2018, where we're working right now for your approval, a game like you do for others in the distribution of the Supplementary Local Cooperation Fund, which I also remind you is born to be a cooperation fund with unconditional municipalities. But — I insist — you use the regulations as appropriate for the People's Party. We find it even more curious that it is the Directorate-General for Local Administration itself who reports — by the way, contrary to what you just said, that I fully agree with what you are talking about new functions — and, nevertheless, the Directorate-General for Local Administration, which is organically dependent on its advice, says that reports are not issued on the competences of the councils that are determined in the preliminary draft law, since they are being exercised by the councils before the entry into force of Law 5/2014. Anyway, it's all a little paradoxical. Anyway -- I insist -- I'm not surprised they don't remember, because in the course of time, they're going back to this law... but, in any case, agree. The General Technical Secretariat presents a judicious memory of the need not to apply for a ruling from the Economic and Social Council. As bad as — just as in the previous case — you make it clear, and you yourself are talking about the great economic impact and the great social impact of this law. So you yourself justify the absolute need for a report from the Economic and Social Council. That, by the way, that judicious memory of the need not violates Law 6/1995 itself, so that the Economic and Social Council, which in its Article 5, sets out the functions of this council and, among other things, says that it will be dictated by a pre-conceived request to the draft laws and drafts of legislative decrees and general or sectoral plans which regulate socio-economic matters directly linked to the economic and social development of Galicia. But, however, we went to see what impact this had on the Greek accounts and we found that in the tables published by the IGE, artistic, recreational and other services represent for Galicia, in annual data for 2016, 3.5 % of annual GDP; it does not appear to be negligible. And if we go to full-time equivalent jobs, which is defined as a total of hours worked divided by the annual average of hours worked in full-time jobs in economic territory, because the IGE also tells us in the quarterly economic accounts that artistic, recreational and other services represent 7.8% of the total, and, in the case of employees, 7.32% of the total by 2016. So we agree — we agree with you — that they have a lot of social impact and a lot of economic impact. We therefore ask the ESC to report on this bill. The truth is, over the years they've been talking about this law, they could bring us a little more elaborate law. Or did they have any doubt that he was going out ahead? I suppose it wouldn't be. And by the way, because they always remind us that they're 41, because they notice, they work a little bit more the laws and they come a little bit more elaborate, which seems quite interesting to me. [[Applause]] We, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, believe that it is a necessary law — we fully agree — and that is why we do not present an amendment to the whole, because we hope to come to an agreement for an absolutely necessary law to give legal security to the sector and to the participants, as well as to ensure orderly coexistence between public shows and family life. We present a total of 44 amendments, which we are discussing with the sector, with neighboring associations, with consumer and user associations and with municipalities. We're sure our contribution will greatly improve this bill. And we hope that the People's Party, with most of it, will take our proposals into account and will fundamentally improve the definition of content and the clarification of the precepts that at this time, as drafted, does not provide legal certainty in many respects. By this, to say — although I have already said so — that we are asking for a consolidated text recombining all the rules of autonomy and that we are open to agreements to make an absolutely necessary law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Reverend Luther King said that the true leader was not to seek consensus, but to model consensus. I want to begin this intervention by congratulating the Government, and in particular its vice-president, on being able to model this legislative text which today begins its walk in this House and which undoubtedly constitutes a magnificent basis on which we now have to work for the various parliamentary groups. By the way — I would like to clarify it, Mrs Rumbo — the work of the 41s and the work of the rest of the House begins today — it is today when we start working. It is not appropriate for you to make the same mistakes as your companion Carmela Silva, who confuses the Lexislativo with the Executive. This is a bill that the Executive has drafted and, from today on, we work, from today! And I invite her to work with us. [[Applause]] I sincerely believe that we are faced with a necessary policy project, useful and, as the Vice-President said, consensual. See, it is necessary because the whole of Galician society, especially the sectors most directly affected by this legislation, demand a clear legal framework, appropriate to the current social reality and capable of ensuring the protection and reconciliation of the various rights and interests in relation to public shows, equally clearly delineating the obligations of each individual in taking the necessary measures to avoid unwanted situations and the responsibilities that each one assumes as a result of the failure to fulfil those obligations. I believe that it is also a useful project, because it focuses on the substantial, important, abandoning any intention to establish an unnecessary interventionism of the autonomous administration without this assuming that it is no longer establishing a clear, simple, unburocratized and eminently practical legislative framework. And, of course, despite some of the things that have been said here, it's a consensual project, because, as the vice-president explained, it has established with the affected sectors a genuine dialogue; not even a communication, a genuine dialogue, fluid, supported for a long time, and this has allowed the text to be enriched until it reaches this House with a very high level of consensus with the sector. I am sure that none of the actors who participated in that process have seen their expectations completely filled, but I believe that this dialogue has served — and I believe sincerely — to dispel fears and to find a balance where they can reasonably feel comfortable and sufficiently protected their interests. It's true that it's a long-awaited project. I mentioned Mrs. Rumbo when she was 21. I have to remind you that of the 21, 4 were yours, and by the way, they didn't even try, they didn't even try! But it is true that it was difficult to homogenize all existing legislation, and it must also be recognized that Galicia, as far as it refers to its reality of cultural spectacles, has a particularly complex reality. And that's why I want to sincerely congratulate Mr. Vice-President, because it was not easy to achieve a degree of consensus around such a sensitive matter, as high as what was achieved with this text. I sincerely wish to extend my hand to the parliamentary groups so that, in our own right, we may be able to enrich this bill, keeping, yes, the substantial bases of the social agreement that has so far reached. Yes, Mr Bará, the kind face. When we find reciprocity in the answer, we like to show our kind face. And I think, frankly, that the beginning was promising. The absence of a comprehensive amendment by the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group implies a recognition of the validity of the text we are debating today, at least — we are recognized — for the purpose of serving as a starting point for us to draw up a law that reasonably satisfies the multiple interests that come together around it. I'm not going to go into the partial amendment debate today, because, frankly, I've heard some things here that would probably have to make my ears bleed. But precisely, in order to maintain that conciliatory tone, that kind face to which Mr Bará mentioned, we are going to go over them today, I think we have time to debate them in the relevant committee and see if we achieve a certain degree of broad consensus. So today I thank that constructive spirit of nationalists and socialists, and I hope that they will maintain that constructive spirit and allow us to reach as broad a parliamentary agreement as possible. But, Vice-President, even the best hunter escapes some hare, and we have escaped the consensus with En Marea, at least the consensus in this initial state. I recognize that, of course, they have every right to disagree, but, of course, without surpriseing the introduction of the amendment to the whole, because the background has already come to announce it, if they surprise the reasons given to oppose this law. In recent times, Mrs. Cuña and Mrs. Chao expressed themselves before the media, and I quote literally: "The new Act of Joint Shows is an alibi to soften culture", in addition to calling it "a risk" and "a danger" to Galicia's artistic creation. Well, we've all known a certain tendency to the hyperbolic metaphor by the representatives of the new policy, but I honestly believe that this time they brought this issue to the extreme. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Act of Shows neither regulates nor has ever intended to regulate artistic creation, and therefore it will hardly affect a matter on which it is not pronounced in any of its articles, in any of its articles. But despite this, Mrs Cuña finds risks of numbing cultural creation into a regulation that does not regulate cultural creation. And I sincerely confess that listening to all this I remembered this phrase from his head Marx Marx Marx Marx Marx Marx Marx Marx Marx, when he said what they were so busy writing the criticism that they had no time to sit down to read the book, because there is no other explanation to that which he says. I understand, in addition, that you attribute the responsibility of this alleged cultural numbness exclusively to the People's Party. But according to your opinion, Mrs Cuña, what is the responsibility of the BNG and the PSdeG in this supposed scourge? Are they co-authors? Are they necessary accomplices? Are they covert? Because, of course, it would be nice for you to explain it in your closing shift, because some explanation will have the absence of amendments to the whole of socialists and nationalists, with regard at least to that supposed brutal frontal attack on our country's culture. I look forward to some explanation of this in your speech. But I'm going to focus now on the text of his amendment to the whole, text that they argue on four fundamental aspects. The first is the lack of dialogue and consensus. Because there seems to be a lack of dialogue that The Tides justify in a series of meetings that their lordships have held with a number of groups and societies — I suppose you secret, at least for us — because they seem to have interests affected by the law, but that for some kind of institutional shyness — I suppose — they decided not to make claims to the preliminary draft at any time. And, of course, I don't accept you, I can't accept you, that you come here and say you haven't had any contact with cultural associations and representations, because I believe that the Galaga Association of Musical Companies represents them, I think the Galaga Orchestras Association represents them, and I think the Galaga Verbena Galaga Business Association represents them. Don't deny you, at least, representativeness to such an important part of the sector. The second reason they mention is that the project is part of a wrong premise: it aims to equate culture with spectacle. Not only do I claim that this is roundly false, but I am going further: it is you who leave this mistaken premise, ladies and gentlemen, not the Government. As I said before, this law does not regulate cultural creation; writers will continue to write, composers will continue to compose, plastic artists will continue to create and consumers of cultural goods will continue to enjoy these creations. And there's nothing in this law that affects or conditions cultural creation, nothing. Because this law, Your Honor, regulates only public shows and recreational activities. Yes, it regulates them all, whatever the nature of the show or event: sports, play, neighbors, work, religious, union, political or cultural. And if the bill will not limit the practice of sport, nor the practice of leisure, nor the practice of neighbouring life, nor religious practice, nor the work, trade union or politics, it might be asked, why do you suspect that you will limit cultural creation? I don't know him. Your Honor, this law only seeks to establish the conditions for any of these demonstrations that I have just reported to materialize in a public spectacle, which is celebrated with full assurances for all those who participate or attend that event. That has much more to do with the freedom of individuals than with any kind of censorship. The third reason they mention, Your Honor, is the lack of proportionality in the sanctions system, because according to In Marea any non-profit show can't and must not be sanctioned. That's what you say. And if these shows do not therefore enjoy total impunity, we consequently resort to the numbness of culture and, consequently, also in the last of the arguments that justify its amendment to the whole: the reduction of democratic rights. The tailor's drawer from the tides of Podemos. It's good for everything, and -- as Mrs. Cuña said well -- when it's worth everything, it's not worth anything. Justification of the use of this desperate resource, frankly, in this case is amazing. I quote literally, literally: "So much the need for prior communication to the competent administrative authority as the authorization by it to carry out all kinds of artistic, cultural and recreational activities is an unacceptable excess of control." That's what you say, gentlemen. First, it's false, because the regulations envisage that the municipalities themselves determine what activities are except for their low incidence of this general regulation. By the way, of course, a competition which is going to be exercised by the municipalities and which has no economic cost, of course, as they will also have the possibility of modifying the schedules, which seems to upset them, as well as deciding how to control these shows. Because, Mr Bará, I suppose you will agree that the councils must have freedom to decide how they exercise that control, or perhaps it seems to you that only the Pontevedra Council has the right to privatize that service, because you criticize it, but in its county it is privatized. Let's be a little serious. Ladies and gentlemen, the tides of We can understand that if there is no profit there are no more obligations for organizers or risks to the attendees. Your Honor, it seems to me a serious irresponsibility. The conditions of organization and security of an event must be graduated according to their technical characteristics, their physical location, their access, but you seem reasonable that two events of identical technical characteristics, held in the same place and which have the same opening are subject to different regulation simply depending on whether there exists or there is no profit; and that, Your Honor, is a nonsense. This law should, among other things, try to prevent Galicia from having a tragedy like that which we all remember and that happened years ago in Madrid Arena. Tell me honestly, Your Honor, do you think the fact that you didn't charge yourself a ticket in that show would minimize the tragedy? Do you think if the collection had a beneficial end, would those deaths be avoided? Do you think that any of these circumstances should be lowered by family responsibilities or compensation? We ask him to reflect on those particulars, Your Honor, because with the safety of the people we should not frizz. Your Honor, regularity is not tantamount to censorship. I don't accept that premise. In this country there is no censorship of anyone else, the difference with whom you sympathize, Your Honor, but Spain is not Cuba, Spain is not Venezuela and, of course, Spain does not seem at all like Iran. And frankly, it's beginning to be annoying that a political group, whose leader was launching his political message from a television program funded by the same regime that said fatua condemning death to Salman Rushdie, is now teaching us how freedom of expression is exercised in Spain. I don't accept it, Your Honor, I don't accept it! And, consequently, Your Honor, I ask you to abandon that tremendous message, I ask you to return to the language that allows us to reach an agreement to make the best law possible for the benefit of all. [[Applause]] If you decide to participate in that constructive dialogue process, you will find us willing to reach agreements, and I hope so. But if you just want to use this as a weapon to accuse my party of a shortcut of supposed moral superiority, which does not correspond to you, ladies and gentlemen, you will find us willing to defend our convictions. I already warn you that our convictions come by trying to pursue the common good, and that's what we're going to dedicate ourselves to. I sincerely hope that you will do exactly the same and that we will be able to reach reasonable agreements. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u12	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Replica from the amending group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u13	I don't know where to start, the truth. Mr. Peace Couñago, I think there's a listening problem. Really, I don't know if his ears are bleeding or if there's a stopper. Of course, to deny the evidence has its own, to deny the evidence of many compelling questions which have been named here. Here's a contradictory law, it's talked about a law with great legal insecurity, little participation, opaque, unrealistic, little developmental, with loss of characterism of citizenship, which puts small groups at risk next to large groups, with a lot of indefinition, a very hilvanated, little sewn law, for anachronistic moments... we could continue, and you wouldn't listen, because you didn't hear anything. The different groups have the freedom to amend in whole or in part. I think the difference is that we, in addition to making sixty amendments, also make the amendment to the whole, because we believe... and disagree there, but nothing happened in that. Discretion politically is not negative, and you intend to take us to a territory of confrontation that will not reach. I think there's been a lot of coincidences. I don't care what you say. The consensus has to be moved differently. A law of this magnitude requires consensus, a law of this magnitude requires it to be participatory; it has been partially involved. They consulted and talked to the groups. Let's say that we have to distinguish very well what trade activity is commercially from artistic activity. Within artistic activity, so you don't think that I, after many years knowing the world of culture, don't discriminate between non-profit activities and profit activities. It's pathetic, it's a lack of arguments that tells me: What if Arena doesn't charge entrance? Either you don't understand anything or you have caps in your ears. So, check it out, go check your ears, Mr. Couñago, which is the best you can do. Of course, there's no secretism, we talk to many of the groups you've also talked to, and you can go on with it, denying the evidence. We believe that partial amendments, unfortunately, because of the usual use of their majority, will not have echoes, will be rejected; it is the usual. Home! last year, of 1,000 amendments to the opposition to budgets, they didn't even accept the first one. Predictably, few will accept. That, plus the data on transparency, the opacity of those amendments made by the groups, of which you have accepted one or two more, is a clear indication of how most of you use them. This law asks...—I don't know what it's telling me; I'm talking...—We ask and we talk to many groups, we try to talk to all groups. This law calls for clarity, asks for concession, asks for realization, asks for equanimity, asks for realism, asks for development...; asks for a lot of things. From what can also be drawn that I think no one here can be against security. We all want young people and dependents to have access to culture and access to leisure. What happens is that for many moments this law is anachronistic. Leisure today has changed a lot. And you have a double strange speech: "You have to protect the minors." Of course, of course not! They have to go to the children and the boys accompanied to a music festival until they're 16, but they can go to the bullfights at 12. This is what his law says; accompanied, but at the age of 12, children can attend a spectacle that attacks and mistreats animals. [[Applause]] Well, they can according to his law. Of course we're supporters; we don't talk about talking, we don't have moral superiority, nor those cocks. We are debating with arguments. When there are no arguments, insults come, and hence leads to other leaders who do not know what and Groucho Marx — who, by the way, is a wonderful author. Well, with regard to the sanctioning regime, so there's no doubt about how it can affect a non-profit activity, because, well, a small, organized activity has the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u15	...for a public show; therefore, it can be punished with between 300 and 300,000 euros. You look good, don't you? Missing definition and opacity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendment to the full refund made by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. in Marea, to the Bill of Public Shows and Recreational Activities. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; against, 40; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. The amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u17	Therefore, the bill of public shows and recreational activities continues its process in commission. We move on to the second point of the agenda. The following appearances are accumulated: Mr. President of the Galician Union, on his own request, to report on the response to the extraordinary wave of fires that has just suffered in Galicia in the last few days. Mr. President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, requested by the GG. PP. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Galician Socialists and En Marea, to analyze the grave situation created by the forest and urban fires that harass the country
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u18	To substance, therefore, these appearances have the floor of the President of the Council of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u19	Maximina Iglesias, Angelina Otero, Marcelino Martínez and Alberto Castromil. When we're talking about four people who lost their lives, everything else is in the background. I want our first words of remembrance, pity and affection to be for their families. [[Applause]] Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Antonio, from Cervantes, saw how the fire destroyed the family house that his parents had built. Patricia, from Melón, lost the house, the garage, two pallets, the car and a tractor. Harry and Elena from Caldelas Bridge lost the wooden cabin and the rehabilitated bus where they lived. In this same county, the fire caused losses of up to half a million euros in a board factory. In Vigo, part of the ship was demolished from a beverage distributor and all stocks were lost. And in the snow the sawmill workers lost everything: the ship, the machinery, the vehicles, the raw materials and the products made. I could tell you dozens of similar situations like this, which you also know, lived in 137 Greek municipalities, reflecting the magnitude of the fires that took place between 14 and 16 October this year. In those days, a total of 128 people had to be admitted to various hospitals for various types of damage. Fortunately, the vast majority of them were discharged in the following hours, while three still today are still entering, two from Soutomairo and another from Vigo. More than 2,400 Welshmen and Greeks had to be evicted from their homes, more than a hundred saw their houses, their livelihoods and their vehicles damaged, and all Galicia experienced the anguish of the event during those hours. Ladies and gentlemen, the people affected are the most important. So both the members of the Government, the territorial delegates and I try to be personally with most of them. We made ourselves available to all through visits or telephone conversations, and that's why attending them in the best possible way was the first and absolute priority over any other during the fires, being the priority of the extinction teams and also then with immediate actions to address those affected. There is no reason to describe what Galicia suffered, there is no speech to describe what has suffered Galicia, but we must all be very aware — and most of what we have seen has happened so close, in Portugal — that all the circumstances have been brought together so that the consequences that we today mourn and we regret were still of the greatest dimensions if it were not for the effort and expertise of thousands of thousands of people who have worked in the extinction tasks and those we have seen so close close to, in Portugal — that all the circumstances have been brought together so that today's consequences that we are crying out and we are still grieving are still of great dimensions if it has not been the effort and expertise and expertise of thousands of thousands of people who have worked in extinctions and helicopters that we have to recognise in this Parliament, military emergency emergency unit members, environmental emergency personnel, forest emergency officers, forest emergency personnel, forest-fire coordination centre technicians in their districts, and, of course, citizens who, jointly, have fought the best ways, and have demonstrated that every time each time a disgrace we put, even put, even to the task, the determination of this people, the determination of the people, the people, the record, the success and the peace, the peace, the world. we have has gone, the peace, the peace, the peace and the peace, the peace, the peace has has has gone, and the peace has has all, the peace, the peace, the peace, the peace has has has has has has all all all, the peace, the peace, the has has has has has all all all all, the peace, the peace, the peace has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has all all all all all all all, the peace, the peace, the has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has all all all all all all all all, the peace, the peace, the all all all all all all, the all, the all, the has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has all all all all all all today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today today, the has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has [[Applause]] However, the damage has been enormous and many Greek families have reached. I think I'm speaking on behalf of you and also of the Galician set by transferring to all of them our support, and, most importantly, our commitment, will remain in force until the damage is repaired. Unfortunately, the loss that the families of the four fatal victims have suffered is impossible to recover; the only thing we can offer them, and which, in fact, I have personally offered them, is our support in everything they may need. And to the rest of those affected who lived in the first person hours of panic, impotence and desolation, especially on Sunday night, October 15, and to a lesser extent the previous Saturday and next Monday, we also have to give them solutions, which already have at their disposal. As I told you, we know that this is our first obligation, and that's what we devote all these days with determination. Even though I will detail the concrete measures, I can tell you that all those affected already have help, necessary support to be able to deal with them and the commitment to be resolved as soon as possible. And, of course, not only do they have this phone, 900 815400 — a free phone — to be taken care of, but, most importantly, they have the entire Union of Galicia at their disposal to meet this attention. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this Parliament because I am aware that, after those days, questions arise, and it is appropriate to make joint reflections. It is true that we try to account for the state of the situation at all times: the set of the Greeks, through the media daily; the mayors of the municipalities concerned, with whom we continue in contact to assess the damage; the central government, which was also pending and present through the president of the Government and the Minister of the Environment; and also the set of political groups. In the same way, it is true that the Rural Media Advisor has exposed the data already known on Tuesday 17, in his immediate appearance in this House, which is included in the plenary in a completely extraordinary way, when the extinction tasks have not yet been completed. And in the same spirit of maximum transparency, I myself have also reported at the same session, likewise taking part in a de facto change of agenda in control of the president. But if I'm here, my own request and all of you, it's because I think that, after the emergencies, with a more precise balance of damage, with the necessary help for those already published and processed — which we will agree that it was the primary — is now when we have greater capacity to hold a debate with more knowledge and, therefore, a broader debate and a deeper debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the hundreds, thousands of Greeks, who lived in the first person the anguish of the fires, and above all the four families who mourn the loss of their loved one, deserve to be honored in this House with a debate going beyond the simple government-opposition. For my part, I come here today with the will that this Parliament can offer to them and to the whole of Galicia something more than just a session. We must offer answers to the success, but also answers to the future. The first question I think the Greeks are asking is, was it normal what happened? And, objectively, in our opinion, no, gentlemen. What we've been through was a completely exceptional situation. In an autonomous community like ours, unfortunately used to fight the fires, but also for that prepared and with the greatest experience of the entire Peninsula, many citizens will wonder how it is possible to state categorically that the Greeks will not live a wave of fires like that of 48 hours. Well, ladies and gentlemen, fire activity was neither normal nor the weather situation was normal. We certainly record extreme climatic conditions, and even some unpublished ones. It was extraordinary, and it continues to be extraordinary, the hydrological year in which we are living, with 35 percent less rain than normal, and, according to experts in this area, with the driest floor of the last sixty years. It was extraordinary and exceptional the relative humidity level, below 30% in many municipalities, where these values are only usual in summer — an example, Cervantes — and even reaching historical minimums in others like Kings Horses. The values of the temperatures were exceptional for a month of October, and very especially for that weekend, for example, more than 34 degrees in Ponteareas Town Hall. And to the extraordinary and exceptional, as I told you, something unusual began: the effects of hurricane Ophelia, the first category 3 that arrives in Galicia since there are records, which entered about 20 hours on Sunday and began leaving at 3-3.30 hours in the morning of Monday, and which was translated into extreme night temperatures — for example, more than 24 degrees in the municipality of Laza — and strong south winds, which especially in the night of 15 were over 100 kilometers/hour. This caused added difficulties relevant to the device, such as, for example, that helicopters could not fly, in addition to being late at night, they only did it in a short and very timely manner during the day, due to the low visibility generated by the fog. The flares complicated the control of the fires, also from the ground, or the fires from Portugal came to cross the natural border of the Mine River repeatedly, and with kilometric fronts, as happened in Lobies, in the Snows, in the Salvation of Mine or in the Mountains. Only in these three fires were more than 7,000 hectares burned. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order to evaluate correctly what happened, we must start from the basis that there are no comparable precedents; nor can it be equated to what was the worst year of this year in the period of the century or in 2006, where the wave of fires occurred at the time of the greatest risk and has been extended for many more days, nor is it homologable, for example, in October 2011, which also recorded a high incendiary activity. Unfortunately, this time, the weather conditions became the main ally of the incendiaries and fire in Galicia, as well as to a different extent in the Asturias, Castile and León and Portugal. At this point, I would like to reiterate Galicia's solidarity with the tragedy experienced in the country this year, with over 100 dead by forest fires. They know that as far as our possibilities are concerned, as we have already been in Portugal in the past, we will remain at their disposal. [[Applause]] The result in Galicia, according to the definitive assessment that the technicians transferred to us last week, was more than 49,000 hectares burned, 53% of the wooded mountain and 47% of the flat hill. This means it burned on a weekend more than in the previous three years, and that indicates the severity of the situation they had to deal with. So, for that reason, to underline, that with the conditions that have been given, although at last this 2017 is not the year with the most hectic acres of our history, it could perfectly be, and that is why I also want to value the work of the teams, who, with the wind, with the temperature, with the moisture and hurricane Ophelia, have achieved that around 2 out of 3 fires, of 264 those who have faced the two days, have been in contos, but above all have saved many lives that have been put at risk. In any case, the data on acres that point to the enormous damage that arsonists do are secondary, when we're talking about four people losing their lives. The burned hectares will be able to repair them in time, but unfortunately, what is unreparable is the damage of four families victims of incendiary terrorism. Here is the motivation of the second question, of the second question that I think it is for me to answer to the Greeks; a question that is repeated every summer, no doubt, but especially in the last few weeks, to the thread of the event: why does the mountain burn? Well, when it is repeatedly claimed that Galicia burns, it is already missing the truth. Galicia burns; mostly burns. It's not a personal opinion, which I share with so many Greeks, but the conclusion drawn by the people who investigate the fires and point out that on average 3 out of every 4 fires are not for natural causes and that most of them are intended. So they come to us historically communicating to successive governments. The first analyses point to this same trend as regards the 264 fires that arose in Galicia in 48 hours. Between Saturday and Sunday, 65% of the fires started at 7:30 p.m., the moment of greater risk for the impossibility of cutting them by air, since they cannot work from that moment on. And besides, in these days, a total of 19 fires required the activation of situation 2, which, as you know, is decreed when there is a risk of acceptance of population nuclei. To assess the exceptionalness of the nineteen situations 2, it should be borne in mind that until then throughout 2017, you will be included, if you had resorted to this situation 2 on three occasions, and in two days there were more level 2 fires than usually there are averages throughout the year. In the last five exercises, the average was 13. Ladies and gentlemen, those who set fire at night in various outbreaks, near the houses and in the weather conditions that there was, know that action can generate terror. If there was a plot, whether the incendiaries were organized or not, it is up to them to determine it to the police and the judicial authorities, who have previously ruled it out. But what I have said, what I say and what I repeat, I maintain and affirm with all the letters, without minimizing what they do or relativizing it, is that those who care indiscriminately against all and against all, who indiscriminately attack the natural and material heritage of people, who put human lives at risk and manage to end them, are not just individuals who by different circumstances have set fire to trees, but their acts, without measuring the consequences, are inherent to terrorists, and what they do has no other name than incendiary terrorism. We have to put an end to the incendiaries, and we have to end the incendiary terrorism, and we do little favor as a country if we start to lose importance or even frizzy with who I am or what they do. [[Applause]] When it comes to the safety and well-being of citizens, there is a problem of public order which, first, we must condemn with all constancy and which, second, we must try to punish accordingly. Another thing that's different, but that's why it doesn't stop being serious, is that there are also fires caused by neglect. Logically, throwing a hood or making a burn in days in which they are forbidden is not the same as intentionally setting fire in the mountain, but the consequences can become the same. So it doesn't mean that we should be condescending with practices that equally threaten the safety and well-being of citizens and our natural heritage, and that's why we must continue to insist on utmost caution. A fire that goes out of his hands can have mitigating, no doubt, but it also has the responsibility to put us all in enormous danger. Ladies and gentlemen, the third question I think the Greeks are asking is, how did you respond to the incendiary activity during these days, which actually placed it in the face of an indiscriminate and difficult attack? Despite the quantitative means that were used in the work of extinction, with a device that was the most numerous of any month of October of our history, the determination of the different administrations involved and despite the heroism of all who fought against the fire, the main difficulty resulted from not only paying attention to the natural environment, but also burning very intensely in the inhabited nuclei; that is, subjecting to the great risk of many human lives. The best illustration of this gives us the data from the 112 emergency center, which has been strengthening its staff to more than 150% in times of greater crisis intensity, as it has outpaced the maximum activity logs of the entire decade. Over the next two days more than 9,000 calls were held, almost twice as many as an ordinary day. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the proliferation of fires near the houses, we saw, especially for 12 hours on Sunday night, the obligation to put people's protection before the protection of the forest land. I myself was present at the focal point when the technicians decided to bring down most of the agents of the mountains, even to completely urban places where the Union has no direct competition, but we, of course, decided to act. I have no doubt that any of you would make exactly the same decision in a similar situation, because the priority was, they had to be, the Greeks and the Greeks; it was to prevent you from re-editing here a misfortune like the one we would live just a few months before in Pedrógrão Grande, in Portugal, and how sadly they once again lived those same days in the neighboring country. That weekend there were up to 19 simultaneous fires in urban areas and urbanized with houses, up to Vigo's own urban centre. Of them, five have affected natural spaces. Neither fires nor incendiaries distinguished rural, urban, species, natural park, ordered mountain or not. Ladies and gentlemen, we prioritized people on the device and also prioritized them in the responses, which we understand should be immediate, especially for the four families who lost a loved one, for the people who were injured and for those who lost homes and businesses. And the fourth question lies: do we act with utmost diligence with the help? In the first 24 hours, we adopted the Framework Decree, which provides legal support for aid; in the following seven days, we authorized the order which is specific and enables them, with a share of more than 20 million euros — which can be extended, logically, if necessary — and opened a free telephone service at the disposal of those affected to the east throughout the process. Techniques responsible for processing applications are instructed to give special preference to aid intended to alleviate individual damage; that is, mainly to compensation to which the families of the victims of death — who, in addition, know that they have been strengthened — or to the expenses to which the injured may have incurred, with the daily limit set in order. Similarly, we have already activated aid for people who have been affected by their housing, as well as the household allowance, up to 100% of the value of repair in case of habitual housing and 40% in occasional residences, and by completing, in addition, temporary housing costs in cases where this was necessary. I announce to you that we will include an amendment to the Law on Administrative and Tax Measures so that the aid included in this decree is exempt from taxation on income taxes to physical persons in which the autonomic process refers. Over the past few days, there has also been considerable progress in the records of various commercial, commercial and industrial establishments that have been affected by fires, and for them we have enabled two measures: first, advice to help those affected to recover their businesses; and second, and most importantly, aid for recovery or reconstruction works of up to 600,000 euros per establishment, in addition to loans with interest subsidies to finance these actions, compatible with future State aid, as well as insurance that they have contracted. Within the productive sectors, too, logically, special attention must be given to rural areas and the sea. In the first area — in rural areas — it is necessary to repair damage such as private ownership infrastructures, forest clues, water captures, closures, beers and orchards; burnt wood costs, prioritising collection at the light border, in order to prevent the spread of the pine rain; repair of goods, machinery or equipment; total or partial loss of agricultural production of the farms; loss of livestock or loss of herds of livestock and apicolas; or for the acquisition of supplementary food for the extended livestock or the herds in the affected areas. For its part, the Council of the Sea also keeps an eye on the sea bankers until the continence that serious damage could occur. In addition — and as we have already discussed at the moment — we have approved aid for other needs: re-approaching hot tourist signals; recovering sports infrastructure; repairing damaged roads, especially in the province of Pontevedra, whose works are already being developed; or supporting the owners of the ordered cinematic lands that have been affected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stop at one of the most important games we have set aside in order, which are the city councils' aids; you help both to compensate for the expenses arising from the actions that were necessary to deal with the fires, to repair damage caused by municipal property and rights, and that we have at our disposal to give them the necessary support, along with the deputies, as we agreed at the meeting held together. We have already informed the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces directly, and we are awaiting the extent of the damage to the municipalities concerned. Let me take this opportunity to make a call for this response to be made with as much speed as possible, because it depends on the fact that the aid enabled in Galicia can be complementary at national level and, in its case, at European level; that is, with the support of the Central Government — which has already confirmed that this month will be approved — and also with the European Union Solidarity Fund, which we want to explore with the rest of the communities, but for what we need to have a comprehensive and complete evaluation of the costs as soon as possible. So, the same commitment of the Union, with resources and with speed, I ask all the administrations involved so that the damage caused by the fires can be compensated as soon as possible. On this objective, too, there is a great relevance to the third pillar of the performances. I'm referring to the tasks of regeneration and consolidation of the burned soil. As a matter of urgency, we started fixing the affected floors, in order to prevent them from drifting and the arrival of sediments at rivercourses and streams; a goal that we do not close and in which we will continue to work. We also prioritized the response in protected natural spaces, especially the restoration of habitats in Lower Limita-Xurés and Anchores, due to the presence of species catalogued in some cases in danger of extinction. And besides, we've begun to develop the reforestation roadmap as well, with the aim of acting in a first phase in the 32 fires of more than 300 hectares that took place throughout 2017 and in a second phase in the rest of the places where technicians see need and more urgent action. Ladies and gentlemen, to recognize the exceptional nature of the fire wave that justifies this appearance, to have the aid guaranteed and underway for those affected and to start the recovery work on damaged land should not make it obvious to us the need to review the more structural areas linked to fires, whether in the forest and environmental environment or in the discharge of criminal action. To the reflections in this two-fold area we refer to the final part of this appearance. If Galicia has never been satisfied with this, neither after this wave of fires can we go out thinking it's all right. Everything can be improved and, of course, also forest planning — they must be perfected — to reduce our exposure to fires as much as possible, despite the fact that zero risk does not exist as long as there are fires or it is not possible in a community like ours, with more than 2 million acres of mountains. Ladies and gentlemen, counting a forest policy that makes the mountains more profitable and lessens the risk of fires was a commitment by our Government before October and will continue to be after and throughout the legislation. I believe that in recent years decisions have been made of great importance in this regard. Let me make a brief reference to ten of those decisions already taken. Since 2012, Galicia has brought into force the first Mountain Law in our history adopted in this Parliament. In 2011, we launched the Decree to encourage forest owners' groups. We require all mountain owners to have a management plan from 2020 onwards. We regulate the obligation to reinvest the revenue obtained by the joint neighbouring mountains in actions of improvement and forest protection. Also, there are clear restrictions on land reclassification, which, on the basis of the existing national legislation, has been banned since 2015 for thirty years. We create help for native species plantations, like chestnut trees. We put the Galaga Forest Industry Agency into operation for the first time. And above all -- like the eighth measure -- we approved the most ambitious tax policy in Galicia's rural history, first, because in 2016 we approved zero taxes for any purchase, sale or exchange of a farm in rural; a measure that has already benefited 20,600 Greeks, and also because since 2017 the same zero tax policy applies to the purchase of housing in rural areas for certain collectives and income levels. And finally, because, as it appears in the budget project that the House has, for the next year, we are introducing tax incentives for those people who are engaged in economic activity in rural areas, in this case with deductions both in the income tax of physical persons and in the property tax. Ladies and gentlemen, all these measures — these ten measures — make it clear that in recent years we have taken the witness of previous governments, who have also been aware since the beginning of democracy, that ordering the mountains, putting them in value, is one of the most important challenges we have and that we continue to have as a country. Neither before nor now do we give that task to the end; they summon us today but also summon us in the future. And neither before nor now do we consider that the responsibility of a government is exclusive; it calls on this Parliament and also calls on all citizens of Galicia. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the same way that we have been able to reach important agreements over the last few years, I suggest that the shared conviction that in the forest sector we must continue to work on focusing also on a single offensive. For months now, with the start of the new legislation, the Union has resumed its design of the new forest planning and impulse measures that we consider necessary. Most of them are already in progress and processing; some of them are included in the Law on Administrative and Tax Measures which is currently being dealt with by this Parliament and which is therefore open to their arrivals, and others must be approached together with the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, as they directly influence on the day-to-day local administration. And there's a last package of measures, such as those that make up the new Forest Plan, which we're assessing with all the agents involved and we also want to close down with the parliamentary groups. The future forest, ladies and gentlemen, depends not only on the government of every moment, but on the whole country, and for decades. To hit or not is not only in the hands of the Executive, because getting us all involved — you too as a whole of citizens — is everyone's responsibility. I believe, therefore, that the best way to create a collective consciousness that protects, orders and values the mountain is to start from here in this Parliament. And that's why I propose, in line with what the different groups of the House have expressed and broadening their objectives, the creation of a specific commission to seek a country agreement on forest policy that protects the unit of criterion and the unit of action. [[Applause]] In addition to this specific commission in the Chamber, I have a package of 30 measures — half of them already being processed — in which I propose them to work together on three distinct but convergent fronts: firstly, on the issue of prevention; secondly, on the issue of management; and thirdly, on the issue of socio-economic dynamization. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already pointed out, incendiary activity is directly related to a problem of public order which is proving that it endangers the safety of citizens, and therefore preventing it is essential. To this day, 3 out of every 4 euros in the fight against fire are already going for that purpose, and our vocation is to continue to act in this field even more intensely. In fact, last September we approved the help to have the mountains in the best possible conditions towards the next fire campaign in 2018. In total, in this first delivery, we approved at the September Meeting of the Board of Boards 11 million euros for individual or collective owners of the mountains to do forestry work or other preventive treatments. I believe that all the Greeks must recognize that the instructions for the prevention and cleaning of mountains are already quite definite, regardless of whether it can be fine-tuned at any particular point. The main problem is that on many occasions there is a remarkable resistance to compliance. When the mountain owners -- and we don't forget that 98% of the mountains in Galicia are private -- we don't assume that we have to manage them periodically, there's a problem. When the municipalities do not comply with their competence to inspect the state of the farms near the inhabited nuclei, whether it is inappropriate or not to sanction or to do those tasks and subsequently repertoire the cost, there is also a problem. And when administrations don't address the problem of abandoned plots or without known owner, and even more if they're in the perimeters of the urban nucleus, there's also a problem. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this triple problem that concerns us all, I present to you the following proposals that, in my opinion, we could start implementing next 2018. First. To advance in an agreement with the local administration to economically encourage the cleaning of the mountains, especially in the secondary lanes, that is, in the surrounding tracks of the inhabited nuclei, so that the owners who delegate these jobs to the Town Hall pay a fixed price, equal to a basic dew, and the administrations cover the remaining part where necessary. That meant a very high public disbursement in the early years for cleaning the farms that take longer to the ground and in which, logically, it is more expensive that cleaning, but in which virtually zero cost would be reached for administrations in a few exercises, if we act systematically. Second. To guarantee the total involvement of the municipalities, which have direct competence; and therefore to exercise them cannot depend on the will of each and every concrete exercise. In this sense, we will propose to the Fegamp a formula so that 100% of the rural municipalities that do not have their own fire department contains forest brigades, that we co-finance them since June, in front of the 195 municipalities that in this season have forest brigades and that have signed the corresponding agreement in 2017; but they must not be 195, they must be close to 300. It is important, not only because it enables the extinguishing device to be reinforced when necessary, but because — we do not forget — the main work of these brigades before the most risky campaign is precisely prevention. In the same line, we assure you that the Rural Plan 2018 will be directed exclusively and for the first time to rural municipalities to hire personnel dedicated to forestry, mountain cleaning and other forest valuation tasks; and we make available to them 7 million euros. With the same objective of strengthening collaboration with municipalities and Members, they also know that we have been working on a new emergency map that incorporates and coordinates into the single command several progress made in recent years, such as the comarcallization of fire stations — which is already defined as a group set up specifically for this — the Supreme Emergency Groups — the GHGs — which we defend to consolidate as a body focused solely on security tasks; the new technology tools of the digital emergency network; or the operation of a telephone for mayors, which has been requested these days since the Fegamp for emergency cases, and that we already confirm that we will enable them. Of all this, by the way, they will receive information from the Vice-President of the Union with an appearance, at his own request, which will be requested for the next plenary session. Similarly, as already mentioned in the Law on Administrative and Tax Measures, we intend to increase the legal certainty of the municipalities in order to facilitate the subsidiary execution of preventive measures in the case of unknown ownership parcels. We clarify that in these cases there is no need for judicial authorization to access the management of these, and we allow the Administration to sell the resulting wood to compensate for the damage. And to address the third problem, that of the abandoned lands, we are also working on several measures, considering that, according to the data in the catastrophe, it is estimated that in Galicia there are more than 300,000 shares of unknown holder and an even greater number of people who have already died or cannot be located. Therefore, to act on them is to act in a very important part of the rural environment, which at this moment is without anyone looking at it. As a general rule, in the wake of the agreement we signed with the Ministry of Business last 2013, we propose to incorporate in a cautious and immediate manner those farms on which we are investigating whether they have an unknown owner, deceased or imlocalizable; that is, we are going to put them, as long as the research is open, at the disposal of those who want to work. The same purpose, which is incorporated into the Land Bank, is to give the estates abandoned on the neighboring mountains in common, in case the corresponding community does not want to take care of them. And the same process of mobilising abandoned land could be extended to other purposes, such as the impulse of agricultural polygons; that is, we can mobilize farms incorporated into the Land Bank when there is a business demand that undertakes to give them the right profitability. I would ask you to support these eight measures of a more general nature, which, in any case, we must supplement with more specific ones, which are already included in the Law of Measures to be adopted in December, and I refer to some of these cases. It says the law that we establish protection tracks around electrical substations and telecommunications stations. So far there has been only this obligation on the lines of transport and distribution of electricity and gas. Also, it must be forced to manage biomass in isolated rural dwellings, even if they are more than 400 metres from the mountain; to extend the limitations in secondary ranges, that is, within 50 metres around the buildings, where there can be no acacias or pyrophytic species, basically pines and eucalyptus, in certain areas that are at greater risk of fires by altitude or wind or in campings, petrol stations and installations with flammable material; to tighten the requirements for planting pine trees and eucalyptus between 30 and 50 metres around the nuclei, where we intend to extend the planting distance to 10 meters between specimens. In addition, I think it is necessary to increase the citizen's knowledge of all these protection measures, and with this aim we are going to carry out a dissemination campaign that will give all the Greek people the obligations and responsibilities we have as owners. I do not want to finish this paragraph without mentioning one of the most necessary measures for prevention, especially in the medium and long term; I refer to education for younger generations. To raise awareness about the mountains, we intend to launch campaigns that allow 100% of the boys to reach before they finish compulsory teaching. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, 14 measures aimed at more prevention and therefore less risk; some of them would already come into force on January 1st. That's the way we have to endure in the first place. The second field of action, as I told you, is linked to the sorting of our mountains. We're also working on it, and we've got the hand to do it together. The main work we have ahead of us is to continue to complete the review of the Galician Forest Plan; an obvious necessity given that the current was designed more than two decades ago and therefore needs to be updated. They know that we have already moved forward in this work by the Galician Forest Council with several relevant objectives, such as to increase decisively the area occupied by native leafy trees — Castilian, oak and deer — to promote groups of forest owners with tax advantages such as those already included in the next year's budget, or also to approve tax incentives for forest entrepreneurs. However, with this first base and after it is evaluated at the Forest Council as appropriate, I inform you that we will send the Forest Plan to Parliament so that it can also be enriched by the arrivals of parliamentary groups. Galicia will be grateful if we agree on a forest consensus plan that is most useful for the next four decades. In this paragraph, ladies and gentlemen, there is a second level of action in the mountains: district level management plans, which we are also pushing. The goal is to have for the mountains instruments similar to the urban plans of the municipalities; that is, as a general urban management plan guides urban growth in municipalities, these plans will guide the forest growth of the mountains of each district. Out of the 19 districts in Galicia, the proposal will begin in January by the province of Ourense, which has 5, and by the province of Pontevedra, which has 4, because it is those that have the greatest affect and incendiary activity. Another measure is the general management of the Forest Plan; district management. But there must also be a third level of management in each individual owner or association. It is provided for in the current legislation, which stipulates that all mountains or forest lands must have a forest management or management tool available in 2020 so that they can be authorised for use. Our commitment is to accompany the Greeks in this process and, in fact, we have already made available to the owners for months, the first 4 million euros so they can meet their obligations by 2020. This process has a great deal to do with the plan for improving areas of extensive pastoral care in the provinces of Ourense and Pontevedra, which already, as we move forward in the debate on the state of Autonomy, has a device of 1.3 million euros for this year. It's contrasting its impact, and that leads us to facilitate this activity. Ladies and gentlemen, these four proposals that I have just mentioned must be complemented by two other proposals which have also been advanced in recent years, but I think they are historical pending matters in Galicia and which therefore takes time to reverse. The most important thing is partial restructuring and, in this sense, I think we should encourage as much as possible certain procedures that must greatly speed up the process. Considering that there are no taxes on farms in rural areas, no agricultural or forestry, the concentrations made by individuals are much faster, less conflictive and with zero taxes and zero costs. Especially attractive are concentrations in small-surface areas, such as those that we are piloting in a parish in Sarria, 300 hectares, or in Oimbra, 1,000 hectares, based also on permutations among individuals. Similarly, it is also necessary to deepen the administrative simplification already initiated with the permission of cuts. There is no doubt that the previous process, with more than six phases of authorization, led to an important slowness, which will in good manner revert to the Act of Promoting the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives, establishing a single window and therefore a single application, and therefore a unique authorisation for species that need greater protection. I mean the native species. It's the only responsible statement for the pines and eucalyptus. But for this to be really operational, we're opening a technology platform at the Joint Portal with the geolocalized and properly updated information that lets you know when the mountains are part of spaces that are subject to some protection regime, so that operators can have more respectable forest management planning. Ladies and gentlemen, preventive measures, management measures and now dynamisation measures. Generating courage in the mountains and avoiding abandonment is our best defense. A productive, exploited mountain that the community perceives as useful is a less vulnerable mountain against the fire. That is why I think the third pillar of the roadmap that I present to you is precisely to support the socio-economic aspect of the forest. We are already talking about a sector of great economic and social importance: EUR 2 billion per year invoicing, 80,000 people employed directly or indirectly in it and some 3,000 forestry-related companies. For this challenge, the Galaga Forest Industry Agency, which has just become operational, will have a key role to play both to encourage industry pemmes more intensively and to promote the manufacture of consumer products, as to make the sector more competitive through technological renewal and the application of engineering, as well as to promote quality employment. In this latter aspect, in employment, we will announce that next year we will devote 5 million specific to forestry workshops exclusively for forestry treatments, biomass management and community-based neighbors and individuals and partners. With the launch of this programme, it would be possible for unemployed people to obtain a training contract that enables them to gain certifiable knowledge in the sector and, at the same time, help in cleaning up the mountains of our community. Similarly, the Rural Environment Council will also address the amendment of the decree on forestry development societies with the aim of simplifying current legislation and facilitating the entry of new investors. The same objective of attracting entrepreneurs to the forest sector is, as I said, in the tax cuts introduced into the Accompaniment Act, both in the income tax and in the equity tax, which we include, I insist, if the budgets go forward, from January 2018, so that anyone who wants to invest in the rural sector and, therefore, in the forest sector, knows that it will have greater tax facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just told you a series of 25 measures; 25 measures to improve prevention, management and placement in the value of our mountains. Some in the short term, though also initiatives that will not yield immediate results, but I am convinced that the generations of Greeks that are yet to come will thank us in the future that we leave behind part of our differences to address this matter. What needs to continue to intensify prevention? Of course. What is needed in the area of management? Of course. What is needed to increase the value of our forest heritage? Of course. What is necessary to raise the demand and control for everyone, administrations and individuals to do their duty? Of course. What must we try to improve coordination between administrations and we all get the most involved in our possibilities? Of course. What should be sought for an even more effective response to one of Europe's best extinction services? Of course. That there are species that burn faster than others? Of course. But, ladies and gentlemen, the work that still has to be done, the improvements that still need to be achieved, and the opposition-government confrontation between parties confuse us. Galicia won't suffer the same without incendiaries. All the efforts made and what they're about to do will do nothing if we don't cut down the real and last responsible ones of this scourge: the incendiaries. [[Applause]] I'm sure I express a collective feeling when I say that there are no words that can sum up the immense pain, the immense indignation and the immense rage that causes you to see how Galicia is set on fire. We need to see how the fires don't inflict the biggest blow, which is to lead human lives ahead; they hurt those people who saw their place reduced to ashes; they hurt those families who saw how the work of decades could be lost in a matter of seconds; they indignate us that it seems that we have to assume as normal and routine the fact that, whenever it does not rain, Galicia has to burn, that there are people who are waiting for the weather conditions to be as good as possible for them to do as much harm as possible; and they force us to know that in the vast majority of times what puts the natural heritage at risk, the belongings of many people and even other people's life is neither chance nor bad fortune. We are angry at the fact that there are terrorist incendiaries, even terrorists, who use the fire to change public peace in Galicia and provoke episodes of terror such as those which, unfortunately, we all lived two weeks ago. Galicia doesn't deserve to cause us that pain. We don't deserve to risk the lives of our loved ones; we don't deserve the desolation, the frustration, the powerlessness to see how the work of a whole life becomes past the fire; we don't deserve to be intimidated. Our people don't deserve to see cyclically how the mountains become scenes of a tragedy. Galicia doesn't deserve to be burned. Let Galicia stand by to repair the consequences of the crimes of the arsonists doesn't mean that we're going to forget that the mountain burns because someone arrests him. The first question, then, which must be put to the Greek society is: how can we act to end fire terror? Our priority must be to make the general atmosphere of impunity that can exist for this kind of crime disappear forever. It can't be that in our society we can assume the perception that the incendiaries would want to set Galicia on fire is very cheap. We will not forgive the people who have put nature at risk, our means of life and who have led four human lives. We owe it to the four families who lost their loved ones, we owe it to so many Greeks who experienced the anguish of the fires, and we owe it to the extinction teams, who played and played life for the lives of others. Galicia is full of fires, but more and more of the incendiaries. Let's go get them, and they'll pay for what they did. The incendiaries must answer to justice for their crimes, and for that it is evident that they must be brought before them. Many times for an incendiary to go to trial, it is necessary that virtually impossible conditions be given, unless they are caught infringingent. Today I'm going to present you with a series of measures to increase your chances of doing so, to increase your chances of taking them infringinging. First of all, we propose the creation of the forest research teams, which will expand and allow us to specialize in the work that has so far been carried out by the forest fire research brigades. This specialized body will be dedicated to research at the point of origin of the fires, analysis of the relationship between the fires and the activities that take place on the mountain and the follow-up of the burned areas. This work is essential to support the research work of state forces and security bodies, which is to which they belong. There will be a minimum of three officers from the forest research teams in each of the 19 forest districts; that is, Galicia will have an environment of 50-60 agents dedicated to this purpose. Secondly, the non-compliance monitoring teams will be set up to ensure that the measures included in the forest and fire defence regulations are complied with, both those already in force and those already included in the Budget Accompanying Act, and those we approve, in their case, in that agreement. These teams will be responsible for monitoring safety distances, in addition to supporting municipalities in including biomass management tracks to defend inhabited nuclei. In addition, they will also locate careless and abandoned plots or that do not comply with the regulations. And there will be a minimum of two surveillance troops for each forest district, around 40. The professionals of the forest research teams and the professionals of the non-compliance surveillance teams will share a unique command in the figure of the provincial coordinator. Thirdly, we are going to set up the Galician Forest Fire Investigations Administrative Register. In it we will systematically store all data and reports and assessments of administrative investigations into forest fires. This log will be accessible by all research teams and by state security forces and bodies, so that they have more information and better coordination. In addition, we propose, fourthly, in this area, the creation of a forest surveillance network, which, through video surveillance cameras and proportionally to the incendiary activity of each place, helps to identify the incendiary activity and detect targets as easily as possible. This, these facilities, will be done at the locations that the public operator Retegal has. For that, we will take advantage of the experience we have of some pilot evidence that has been carried out over the last few years. And finally, measure number five is strengthening a knowledge campaign on phone number 085, so that it's, in addition to the number to warn from the sighting of fires, also from the sighting of the incendiaries. These five initiatives will facilitate the task of identifying the incendiaries at the same time as they are committing the crime; therefore, they will allow it to be easier to take them to the judge. However, I also consider it essential to provide the justice of instruments to give the arsonists a response proportional to the enormous damage they do. I am aware that the latest reform of the Criminal Code has already intensified the response given to these criminals; by the way, a proposal made by the Government of the Galician Union and adopted at the Congress of Deputies. But I also hope that we agree that in the fire strike it was clear that all forest fires brought a potential risk to people's lives. Its perpetrators must be judged accordingly. This will be one of the reflections that I will bring to the top that we will celebrate with Asturias and Castile-Leon in the first days of December. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything that can be taken positively from the wave of incendiary terrorism that we live in those 48 hours, then the people of Greece have proved to be an exceptional people again. Galicia has again shown solidarity, Galicia has again demonstrated brotherhood, and Galicia has again demonstrated courage. And I'm proud to be president of an exemplary, supportive and united people. [[Applause]] The unity we demonstrate in the fires must continue to demonstrate it in the approach of its consequences, united in the support of the victims, united in the condemnation of those who cause this tragedy and united in the recognition of the work of the extinction teams. Galicia will never forget the pain, anguish and anger that we feel those days. Galicia won't forget what the incendiaries have done, but Galicia won't forget how professional Welshmen, neighbors, have worked shoulder to shoulder to face the fire and support the affected. If we are able to reproduce this brotherhood that has shown our people, if we are able to work together, if we are able to keep up with our people, then I can assure them that Galicia will not forget what we do here either. It won't be easy to end the fires, it won't be easy to end the incendiaries, but I won't give myself over, and you won't be defeated, and Galicia won't be defeated. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u21	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo. Let me make my first words as a reminder to the four people who lost their lives in this last wave of fires. It is they and their families who have received the hardest blow of this incendiary strike, and must know that we are next to them and that we share the immense grief for that irreparable and terrible loss. Secondly, I want to transfer my recognition to each and every one of the people, professionals, who have been fighting against the fire; recognition for delivery, recognition for their professionalism, though we know that on many occasions they work in precarious conditions and that we know that during those days they have done everything they could and more. And thirdly, I want to show pride and admiration for the lesson of dignity that the people of Galicia have given. Clearly, without that ability to self-organize the tragedy would have been greater. The mayors and mayors had to stand in front of a Union that was overwhelmed and, on many occasions, absent. Thousands of people had to pick up their capes again, just like during the Prestige, this time to use those caps to stop the chaptope from the fire and again the hat of an incompetent and liar government. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Today we are at a time when we have to make a political assessment of what happened in the management of this wave of fires, what are the causes, what are the responsibilities, but also, ladies and gentlemen, to put in place the changes that are necessary to prevent this situation from happening again in the future. And this — which is very clear — is the will of the Galician Nationalist Block to come to this debate, to work together to prevent this situation from happening again. But there is something the opposition cannot do, Mr. Feijóo, there is something that depends on the Government and that it is evident that you, in your presence, did not. I think it's an insult to all the people who have lived the fire strike that you come here with that self-comprehensiveness and without making any kind of self-criticism, after the despondent balance that leaves us this October 15, Mr. Feijóo. Because the professionals worked everywhere, people worked everywhere, but it's also obvious that, if it didn't rain, the consequences would have been much more disastrous. [[Applause]] And we have a balance that's not like you're coming here without thinking about saying that nothing happened at all, that everything was under control. We have, Mr. Feijóo — and I don't laugh — a very serious situation, four people have died, dozens of people have been burned down, thousands of people have been evicted from their homes, who have burned down their homes, who have actually cost them a lot of building work, who have lost their cars, who have lost their jobs, who have lost all their jobs... we have seen vehicles burned down, we have seen how the highways were cut off, how they stopped their circulation, thousands of economic losses, 50,000 hectares razed, and we have seen a lot of anger, indignation and fear in the eyes of the Greeks and the Greeks, who are fed up to see how the mountain burns, but also that they are full of official lies. And indeed, Mr Feijóo, Galicia does not burn, Galicia burns; it burns the incendiaries, of course it does, but it also burns the pyromanian policies of the People's Party Government, which instigates our country of eucalyptus; Galicia also burns the spinal policies of Ence, Galicia burns the abandonment of the rural environment and the lack of management of our territory. [[Applause]] Mr Feijóo, we have not come here to create useless controversy, and I will not question you, for example, which you have questioned in this House in the face of similar situations. There was an exceptional situation; no one doubted that; what is not true, Mr. Feijóo, was that this situation was unpredictable. On the contrary, look, you had a record that there was a prolonged drought, high temperatures, high incendiary activity at this time of year. They knew, as all people -- and they knew with a week in advance -- that we had a very serious problem because there was a hurricane coming that was going to bring winds and that could raise temperatures, as dramatically then it happened. And, therefore, his obligation has nothing to do with these circumstances; his duty was to measure the risk to the population and to have the means and the maximum means to deal with a high-risk situation. And in the face of this known situation, what did you do to Galician Union? Send home on October 12th to 500 Seaga brigadiers. And do you know how you justified this decision — not your advisor, you — on board board? He said, "The firing of brigadiests will not affect the fight against fires, because the risk of fires in the Atlantic area has clearly fallen." It is true, Mr. Feijóo, that two days later the dismissed brigadiers received an e-mail from Seaga telling them that Monday they would be returned, but that the evil was already done, because the fire did not wait for Monday, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo; the fire did not wait for Monday. And what I want to know is whether you can keep this explanation here today that you gave yourself on a board of assembly or whether you're going to have the humility and political decency to ask for forgiveness, acknowledge your mistake, and tell the Greeks and the Greeks that cheated them. [[Applause]] But we have many more questions, Mr Feijóo. We want to know why early warning was not activated in emergency services despite the obvious risk; we want to know why it took so long, because on Sunday morning we were already seeing the risk situation that was created so alarming, not only in Ourense but also in Pontevedra province; we want to know why it took so long to ask for help; we want to know why not all available resources were mobilized, when it was so much what was at stake in the lives of many people, Mr. Feijóo. Do you know that emergency professionals — not BNG, emergency professionals — are being denounced? Total chaos, and they say that the councillor lied in Parliament. Look, Vigo firemen have said, and for now no one has denied them since their government, that several of their offers have been rejected. The people of Pontevedra said they left the board without warning, because they saw that the situation was overrun. And the Coruña reported it took 12 hours to meet their collaborative offer. The 112 workers say, "Only 7 people have been attending hundreds and thousands of calls on Sunday morning." Indeed, Mr Feijóo, do you not think that, in view of this emergency situation, your absent Vice-President of the Galician Union is spending too much time preparing motions of censure and very little time meeting the emergencies of this country? [[Applause]] And look, in the fight against fire, you have a huge responsibility. It's responsible for changing a law to reduce the protection fringes; it's responsible for eliminating the forest fire investigation brigades; it's responsible for cutting the firefighting device, precariously and fragmented it, and it wants to follow that direction; it's responsible for cutting down in prevention; it's responsible for charging uxfor; paralysing the Land Bank; it's responsible for failing to comply with the Forest Plan and letting Ence mark the forestry policy of this country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And look, do you know what the result is? Galicia burns, and it triples its benefits. Look, in this disaster, I have to tell you that I'm worried, and I was worried before I came here, but today I'm much more concerned to see that what you've been dealing with most was to build this self-sculpatory story. I think they owe an apology to all the Greeks and the Greeks, because the public media in this country did not perform their public service function, and while Galicia was burning up, television and radio or reporting on football or broadcasting from Land Rover. I believe, Mr. Feijóo, that he owes an apology to all those Greeks and gales and that he owes them an apology because he's using the public media to build a self-sculpatory account. It's funny, we didn't get any calls in all these specials to find out what we thought or what proposals we had in the face of such an important challenge for this country as to deal with the problem of forest fires. Yes, we had time to see surprising statements like those of his environmental adviser, Mrs. Bea Mato — I am ill-lucky, not present at the moment — which tells us she doesn't know if a eucalyptus or a oak burns anymore. Do you really think anyone who doesn't know the problem that eucalyptus can cause can manage our natural parks? But, Mr. Feijóo, in whose hands are we?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] It's just that this is really alarming. [[Applause]] I also want to know that it seems to you that the Middle Rural Counsellor mobilizes at least 5 helicopters and dilapide at least 20,000 euros public to go on a visit to take a picture. The workers themselves and the workers were denounced. Mr. Feijóo, I think this is a very bad practice; I don't know if this could be described as a misappropriation of public funds. [[Applause]] In any case, it is clear — and I will finish — that we believe it is important to look to the future. The Government has to clarify what its responsibilities are, and there is therefore something important for us to make clear in this Parliament today. If there is a desire to change the structural causes, it is clear that we must put an end to a pyromanian policy that has been applied for thirty years in this country and give a 180 degree turn to what is going on with the management of our mountain, but also in the face of the abandonment and depopulation of rural areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u23	We have to stop Galicia from turning into a powder. And we have proposals, too, if I may be allowed by the president. We believe it is important that priority is to protect housing and protect infrastructure. A plan to protect these infrastructures is needed, and there are real fringes, but for that there is a need for means. You have to put a stop to the extension of the eucalyptus, you have to put the Pladiga in motion in the first quarter, Mr. Feijóo, you can't prevent when the mountain is burning. We need a unique, one-mandated device that acts throughout the year and prevents emergencies, the media of 112 and a fireman's regulation. And allow me to finish with advice that's not mine. I'm going to literally read a person's appointment, which I think you love. Start the appointment: "Let's teach this country a lesson. We assume our responsibilities. We can't leave here as we go in; we can't say that nothing happened here. I ask you what I would do if I were in your place: we would have to stop the advisor directly responsible for the greatest ecological disaster of the last sixteen years; we would have to accept an investigation commission to really know what happened. And I offer you what I would like you to offer, if you were in your place: I offer you that, once you set up an investigation commission, we will make the forest pact this country needs." End of date. Do you know who said that, Mr. Feijóo? You. You'll know who has to stop or not... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u25	...but what I ask you to do is preach with the example. Accept your advice: a study commission that investigates, analyzes and manages the responsibilities in the fire strike...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u26	Thank you, your time is up. He's got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u27	Accept the proposal of a country pact to end a failed forest policy. It's over, Mr. President. I, Mr. Feijóo, asked him for a letter months ago that we had made a great deal of agreement to end up with a forest policy that would turn Galicia into a powder. You have not been worthy or answered. It's still time for rectification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u29	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I also want to make a reminder to Angelina Otero and Maximina Iglesias of Chandebrito; to Marcelino Martínez of Carballeda de Avia; and to Alberto Castromil of Santo André de Comesaña in Vigo. I want to express to them and their loved ones the closeness, remembrance and affection of our political group. We must also remind all the professionals who fought against the fire, as well as the mayors and concellers of every political sign, the general authorities of every political sign, who were careful to try to reduce their effects, the professionals, the health personnel, who fought the effects on people. All of them, thanks for their determination and surrender and their commitment. Thanks also to the thousands of people who expressed the best of our people in an unequal fight against fires during that weekend; a citizenly mobilized and supportive, a citizen who felt helpless. We have to do today, Mr Feijóo, an evaluation in political terms of the success, with the 50,000 hectares burned on a single weekend, 137 municipalities affected, 32 large fires and, above all, 4 people killed, thousands displaced, hundreds of people with health problems, calcined housing, rural and urban areas located, affected natural sites, broken communication routes and losses that we still do not know but that only in wood must more than 100 million euros. Since our party we have maintained a clear attitude of institutional collaboration during that weekend. While there were fires, we insisted on collaborating, focusing on all efforts to put out the fire; while there were fires, there were no photos; and in the meantime his government was tired of making statements marking the culprits already, in a very expensive communication effort, which probably wanted to compensate for TVG's blackout on fateful Sunday. We've always preferred the transfer of public media to private media to alleviate its effects, the effects of its lack. Your Honor, in an unprecedented event, you used all public and even private media to say what you wanted to say before you paid. I'm quoting the 2006 Session Journal. We could now apply that same comment to this situation. Anyway, I think it's enough to keep insisting. But the fires have ceased, almost all, the emergencies have gone away, and it is time to establish at parliamentary headquarters an account of the facts that enables us to move forward in the solutions and assume responsibility. We are going to impose responsibilities on the Galician Union, because it is the one who has the obligation and competence on these issues, but we also want to make useful proposals to enable them to move forward and eradicate the root causes, the structural causes behind this burning plague, as well as to reduce the effects when the fires occur. We heard his interpretation of the event; in short, that there was a unique climateology, an unpredictable situation in a month like this of October, already in the autumn, and that, coincided with it, there was a sudden occurrence of a collective attack of perfectly organized pyromania; that incendiary terrorism, an organized plot for criminal purposes, which would be the last responsible for the success; in any case, Portugal, which also has its share of guilt, with fires transcending borders, and councils that did not exactly fulfill its responsibilities. In short, the Galician Union did everything it could to do; there is nothing to blame for it because it took all possible measures. Those responsible for this hell are always the others. But, of course, incendiary terrorism is -- excuse the metaphor -- a curtain of smoke not to face things: two detained up to today, an unwise person who made a barbecue and a woman over 70; the most unlikely organized group in history. The statements by the Galician Environment Prosecutor completely dismiss this possibility. Nor do the statements of the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia support her. If there was a plot that causes an average burning of 20,000 hectares every year, how is it not identified? How do we know nothing about this after so many years? It's not worth insisting on this thesis. Persecuting the incendiaries, of course, with all determination and with all strength, but incendiary terrorism we don't see it anywhere. But you know what worries me the most, Mr. Feijóo? Two things about everything else: the first, if we listen to their theses, we're in the hands of climatology. If all the means available were used with maximum efficiency — I think it is not, as I shall explain below — and no mistakes were made, every time the weather conditions we suffered in that month of October are repeated — i.e. that we are in the 3.30s, that the technicians say, we would again have tens of large fires, tens of thousands of hectares burned, homes and industrial ships, and, if it does not remedy it, the probability of some victim. We are in the hands of drought, heat and wind. But, then, we're not in yours, Mr. President, and that's very difficult to admit to a civilly mature people like ours, because these exceptional climatic circumstances will be repeated. Climate change is here to stay, although the Union has not yet firmly assumed preparation for this. From their theses, it would be deduced to this day the need not to change anything; and today, on the other hand, they present a battery of measures that we don't even have time to analyze or to know well, since they were presented right now; more than 30 measures. But, of two, one, Mr Feijóo: either it was all perfect and they have no responsibilities — initial test — or now there are measures that should be taken previously, which were already in the report of the fires that came out of this Parliament in 2006 and which you have achieved all this time, and are therefore directly responsible for creating the conditions in which it happened. His government would be responsible for the conditions that caused the fires, which gave rise to exceptional climate situations that had these effects. You have to clarify where we are. Is he responsible or is he not responsible? Was everything perfect or did they stop doing for eight years many of the things that you're now proposing to us? We consider, first, that you have responsibilities, because there are devices that have failed, measures that should have been applied and have not done so. I'll give you some examples below. And secondly, we believe that the outcome of this tragedy should be to put in place a strategy against forest fires that revises the set of policies to be applied on the mountain, to which we show our disposition. That is why we proposed, together with the Group on the Environment, recently in the Bureau of the House, the creation of a study committee, to which you said it was not the time. I'm glad it is now. It was probably not the time because they were waiting for you to make that announcement in this House. I don't think so. It's about implementing this committee to achieve, with broad political and social consensus, the reforms that need to be implemented based on the application of today's knowledge and comparative experience. As he certainly did Portugal in Pedrogão Grande. That's our policy, too, and we're going to support this getting ahead. But I'm going to quote you very quickly the areas in which you failed. It was a failure to set population policy in rural areas. The best cutters are the intensive use of forest space, the maintenance of pastures and the fields worked. It was a failure for your forest management policy. It's been paralyzing the new forest plan for too long. It was a failure for your forest management policy on private lands. They replaced the uxfor with the sophor, how many are actually created and working today, after eight years? It is a failure to have your neighboring mountain policy, how many have been declared to this day in a state of great abandonment in the last eight years? How many were transferred to the Land Bank for good management from there? Now they want to reform all this but they're eight years late. That's your responsibility. It was a failure for his agreed mountain policy, which directly manages the Galician Union. Can you tell me what proportion of chapter VI for agreed mountain prevention was executed on September 30? It was a failure to preserve natural space. Their prevention policy was a failure. Look, in July, the director general said in an interview that if the prevention rules were met, a case like Portugal would be hard to see in Galicia. The compliance with the rules, according to Fernández Couto, was anecdotal, but he was the CEO who for many years has been responsible for compliance with the prevention policy. And he said himself that it was anecdotal a decisive policy to prevent the mountains from burning. And yet no one stopped him. And yet no one gave an explanation either of what happened in Chandebrito, and I ask you. It was a failure for your single command policy because there are too many groups, different groups with responsibilities on the ground, without effective coordination. It was a failure to modernize fire policy. The Pladiga has become a routine instrument and not a continuous reflection instrument on what to do. It was a failure to respond quickly in October. And allow me a minute, Mr. President. The Director General acknowledged in his statement published on 11 October — I quote from the beginning of October — that "from the beginning of October there has been a continuous change in weather forecast, which makes it possible that in the event of a fire it may evolve and cause serious damage to both forest and other goods"; and concludes: "this situation may have catastrophic consequences." Since the beginning of October, I knew there was a situation that could have catastrophic consequences, but he did not do what he had to do during those fifteen days. And many of the fires that came out on that fateful weekend were burning from days before and a few from weeks before, some from the month of September. His government's great responsibility is precisely that: there were not all the operating media, the 125 Seaga brigades were missing. The staff was called from the 12th day to enter from October 16th, was absent at the fateful weekend. And 75% of the municipal brigades were already absent in those days. That was missing. The security device has failed — and this implies that Mr Vice-President. At 112, there was no operative who could handle the calls during the weekend. There was no effective coordination with 085...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u30	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u31	...there was no warning prior to the security bodies, to the local bodies. They enabled Platerga level 2 but not the IG level, when all conditions were given to do so. Mr. President, there was a late reaction and then powerlessness. The fire was out of control for several hours, when for days now the director general himself was aware of the possibility of a catastrophic situation. The public credibility of the director general, and for the political responsibilities of the rural councillor, would force them to cease in any country. In Portugal the Minister of the Interior has ceased, responsible for the device. I have to ask you to stop them, both of them, for your responsibility, even knowing that they made a great personal effort in those days, that they did, no doubt!, but we have to give the country a proper answer, which is looking at us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u33	...which requires reflection and change. It demands the assumption of responsibilities first, and from there on, the necessary changes, that we refer to that special commission that you undertake to create — welcome – where we can study these 30 measures that you propose and other...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u35	...which we shall certainly propose. First, the assumption of responsibilities, and then the changes that the country demands, which the country needs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u38	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u39	Good morning, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. New boys and girls you see here today see this surrender of the President of the Union's account of his incompetence during the fire strike, his inability to manage the disaster in the weeks ahead and his abandonment of the entire population of Galicia, starting with you all, for all of you, who are the future of this country. Mr. Núñez, good morning. On October 15, Galicia lived a black Sunday, and its president lived cowardlyly behind the manipulation of information, pretending that nothing happened while a million Galicians and Greeks watch with their own eyes the magnitude of the catastrophe and go out into the streets and the mountain defending what is all of them. A black cloak covered our eyes; a black spot full of hats went through mountains, towns and cities; and a black tie through the four deadly victims still goes through our hearts. The worst night of Galicia's contemporary history was lived without the support of its President and Government. In the cities, in the villages, in the hills of Galicia there was only one light greater than the lamps of the fires, which were the bright eyes of the people who went out valiantly, with their own hands, defending the common good. With your own hands, with no help other than your own hands! In the long fight of fire, it sank the Union and brought forth the people. On the black Sunday, once again, he rubbed the state and planted the nation. A citizen who puts his hands and faces the fire doesn't deserve a president who goes out on Sunday night to say in the private media that there's nothing to do, that the situation is out of control. You have paid with defeatism and with abandonment the courage of a people who have begged for their incompetence, their cowardice and their inability to cope with the catastrophe. You were overwhelmed, not Galician citizenship. The fires burned the facade of stoneboard that you had built as a good manager and left undiscovered a black reality, an incompetent government and a more concerned president to manage his own image than to manage a catastrophe. People deserve an explanation of what happened, and you didn't come to this House to give it to her. Because there are many things that depend on you that you and your team have not done well, and for them you have to answer. People felt abandoned and lonely by the incompetence of the board tonight, the worst night of Galicia's recent history. Incompetence, first of all, of the political orders of emergency and civil protection; lack of citizen protection. There are hundreds of villages and villages where police and civil protection could not provide the population with something as basic as mascarillas. The 112 lines were collapsed and the TV didn't report how to make handcuffs or how to protect a house. Evacuation protocols have not been activated. When there are level two fires, where houses or gas stations are threatened, the Peifoga must be activated, level two, and that didn't happen. It didn't happen in Carballeda de Avia, it didn't happen in Salceda de Caselas, it didn't happen in Ponte Caldelas; although in all these places there were threats and in some cases irreparable damage. There was disappointment at the absence of a single true emergency command. Inability to coordinate both the available personnel of the administration itself and the other administrations, which made them available to the Council of Galicia, as was the case with municipalities such as Vigo or Coruña, and did not allow for the proper use of available troops. There has been a crash in the emergency information service. The 112 and 085 telephone services have been collapsed all afternoon on Sunday night. His incompetence sowed chaos and panic, which was often begged by the decision and courage of the mayors, who took command of the situation and coordinated with more will than he mediated the neighborhood erected in defense of the earth and life. Meanwhile, the TVG was throwing Land Rover, Counsellor. Fearful Imprudence of Civil Protection Commands. With these weather predictions, they did not occur to suspend the hunting activity, which started that weekend, nor did they prevent many people — groups per cent — who made sedentaryism on the mountain. There could have been an even greater catastrophe than there was. Mr President, do you support the action of the Emergency and Internal Team that has been handling this situation this weekend? Would you have done, with your direct command, exactly what was done in this situation of which we are realizing? If the answer is no — which should be no — then immediately stop Luis Minor as Director General of Emergency and Internal Affairs. And by responding to that, the Vice-President of the Union, of course, is responsible for the most responsible device. But incompetence hasn't ended here, no, there's incompetence of the fire extinguishers. There was a lack of mobilization of all available personnel. We've already talked about the demobilisation of the 436 brigades, but it's just that they didn't cover downs or vacations because the teams were under minimums at this time. Environmental agents, who were engaged in fire protection until September 30, gave up. You said it was a bureaucratic issue that was not available, despite the extensions, especially with regard to Seaga's contractors. Change the law! Currently in Galicia it is easier to open a mining operation than to extend the contract of a brigadier. [[Applause]] There was a lack of mobilization of all available material resources. It's not true — as you said, President — that all the material forces were working. None of the regional parks in the provinces of Lugo and Coruña were mobilized. They themselves explained it around the press. Here we've already shown the parts of the fire parks, where it's shown that they weren't mobilized that weekend, neither Saturday nor Sunday, although there were objective conditions for them to be. We have a better people than their rulers, so people, in spite of these means, went out to defend the common good. Do you support the action of these teams and the actions of political leaders, who did not mobilize all resources? Save them? We understand you don't. If you don't back them up, the fire extinguisher and Seaga Service immediately ceases, and by extension also, as the highest responsibility — together with the director general of Montes — the failed advisor to the rural environment. The abandonment and loneliness, the fruit of his government's incompetence, disproved you as a good manager, and his reputation burned on Sunday black. You could go through a simple incompetent, of course, but no, you were much more there. One thing is to be reckless and another thing is to be malicious, and his Government has not only incompetence, but also in malice and lies many times. And I don't want to let the occasion pass to break what the counselor said in her speech of last plenary, when she said that in Cervantes the media were sufficient and that there was no media problem. As you can see here, on the cover of El Progreso de Lugo, the boys who stopped going to class to defend their houses and defend the mountain. And neither the class nor the mountain stood up for leaving the class on Sunday, was done on Monday, when it was already a school day. And these boys and these girls left everything because there was no means to defend their own houses, and they realize this in brave witnesses: "Our families saw themselves to fight against their lamps. The reality is only one, and the houses are safe thanks to all of us." They say, "That if, at no time were we afraid, how would we be afraid if our house was in danger? We had to act to protect her as she was," a young man named Raúl, 16, demanding the feeling of everyone. They, they, you are there and you are the future and you are the ones who implore the incompetence and abandonment of the Council of Galicia. Thanks to people like you, there's no loneliness and there's hope for the future for this country. [[Applause]] The malice of information manipulation... was great at CRTVG. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] CRTVG is a state-of-the-art public service, and Black Sunday must have activated a special programming where the whole population would learn what to do if the fire was approaching their homes. How to tell where there were fires. Where there were roads cut. Where tunnels collapsed. Where there were streets and urban parks in flames. But no, Mr. President, his political selfishness has prioritized his image above the general interest of all Greeks. He'd rather hide the reality of Galician society than acknowledge his incompetence. To save his image, he put many people in danger and aggravated the anguish of a people who had no way of informing themselves in the communication channels of their own country. This is not incompetence, this is malice; it's not inability to manage, it's manipulation. This fact was one of the most unworthy of the population. Not only did they not help, but they tried to deceive them. Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo must be stopped immediately as direct liable for a mass poisoning of the people of Galicia. You ask for it at Marea, but you're also asked by the Intercenter Committee of CRTVG and massively citizenship. [[Applause]] While people were thinking how to save their homes, Nuñez was thinking how to save his face. They thought about saving their homes and Nuñez how to save their face. While people were helping, the TVG was manipulating. While in a situation of national emergency the president faced a grueling defeat, Galician citizenship stood up to say loudly and clearly that, when there is a struggle for life, there is no one here. The night of the black Sunday only the president surrendered. The night the manipulation couldn't stop the fire that burned his good manager's stone-card façade. Now, the incompetence and abandonment of the Galician Union was not only of the weekend, it came in the weeks after. So, even though they had the opportunity to rectify and do what they didn't do before, they lost the chance to do it, which extends until today. We see it in several samples. First of all, in the loneliness of the Town Councils. Together does not have a system of attention to the municipalities concerned; it is the realm of improvisation, dislocation and unwillingness. The government banners rural abandonment. There is a danger of the viability of many livestock farms, there is no effective remedy. To begin with, the provision of forage in the first few days to prevent cattle from dying; there is no information from the Boards about how to do the restoration and fixation work on a burnt floor that can't wait months because rains are taking place now. In Carballeda de Avia, the veterinary technicians at Junta took more than a week to authorize the removal of calcined animals, with the delay that I assumed this and the public health risks it entailed. A follow-up to the aquifers affected is not being made since June, with the dangers that this may also have for public safety. And no psychological care plan has been activated for the affected population. The decree of aid announced to the bomb and plate in two episodes must be subject to several criticisms. First, the deadline is very short, to begin with, to invent and identify the damage caused. A month, absolutely scarce. Information and attention offices should be opened in all concerned municipalities, or at least in the county headers, and not make a mere propaganda announcement as you did yesterday in Cervantes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u40	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u41	...when it was said to open an office that only opens for a week and only has the ability to report, but not to initiate proceedings. With regard to personal damage aid, it is not acceptable for them to be regarded only with the existence of intentionality. It is not acceptable that damage to habitual housing can only be done if you are aware of all tax obligations, because there are people who may not be able to afford certain tax obligations and lose everything, as was the case with more than 30 people. You — yes — created an excuse that they wanted to be perfect to restore the facade of their calcined image. Mr Feijóo had two ways: to choose the solid building materials of self-criticism and to review his public policies in the prevention and extinction of fires, forest and agribusiness models and territorial management, or to opt for a model stoneboard. The stoneboard is cheaper and more immediate, and has opted for the cheap. The children have invisible friends, and President Núñez, in an outburst of imagination and escapism, discovers an outside enemy, common to all the Greeks, which has nothing to do with the policies of the Union, which he calls "incendiary terrorism." An exercise of frivolity that plays...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u43	...I will end up, Mr. President—with the pain of many people who need to understand what has happened and an explanation that makes sense of so much destruction. He makes irresponsible and false use of a criminal and social concept of which there is no evidence of any kind, but he doesn't care because the important thing is to rebuild his facade immediately and play with the pain of the victims of terrorism and the victims of fires. Some guy's arrived... [[Applause]] No one outside his information manipulation office defends this thesis, no one. You've spent 80,000 euros on media-paid propaganda in the last few weeks, turning to sobs that excuse your incompetence and the abandonment of your population. There are no incendiary plots either, or at least no one has any trace of them, or the Prosecutor's Office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u44	It's over now, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u45	...of the environment, not even the director of the Forest School...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u46	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Your time is up, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u47	...not the Government Delegation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u48	Your time is up. He's got another shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u49	We'll follow after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u50	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u51	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I also want my first words to be on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to pay tribute to it and to show our deepest thoughts to Maximina Iglesias' families and friends, Angelina Otero, Marcelino Martínez and Alberto Castromil, who died during the exceptional wave of fires last October 14, 15 and 16. And I also want these first words to be to express solidarity with the 128 injured people who needed hospital care, with the 2,400 Greeks and Greeks who had to leave their homes that night, and, above all, my first words to be deeply grateful to the nearly 5,600 workers who in the various functions of the device fought against the blades that night. Without them, the misfortune could have been much greater, as we saw in Portugal. [[Applause]] As it would also be not — even if in this case we are not talking about something that is out of the ordinary, but that is what we always expect from a people like the Greek— by the exceptional response of citizenship, who knew how to react to an extraordinary and exceptional threat, such as the wave of fires, to collaborate with the more than 5,000 professional workers who fought against their lamps during those days. No doubt without that volunteer work led by professionals, the misfortune today could be much bigger. Ladies and gentlemen, certainly everything we are living socially and politically since the end of the week of 14 and 15 October is exceptional. Exceptional weather conditions, which were by no means created by the Government. The driest year of the last half century; maximum temperatures in October, of more than 30 degrees the maximum and minimums above 20 degrees; a relative humidity below 30 degrees; warm, intense winds, 80 and 100 kilometers/hour, for the effects of hurricane Ophelia. It was also exceptional incendiary activity, 614 fires in October, of which 237 were only on 14, 15 and 16. As the president reported at night, only 48 Saturday to Sunday after the sun had set. The average of October is normally 72 fires and there were 614, almost nine times more! This year the most day was one day in August, with 50; Sunday, October 15, there was 132. An incendiary activity that both mayors and security personnel have said that it is not explained in many cases, because it is urban, by the schedules, by the places, by negligent actions... and that it has led the State Environment Office to open an investigation into the affected autonomous communities to give a vision or a collective analysis, and also to Galician senior prosecutor to investigate whether, in addition to recklessness and intentionality, this results in concerted planning. Actions that speak of the exceptionalness of the fires, although some think that what the prosecutor says, along with the High Court, is unwise. What we think is that what is unwise is to call the prosecutor unwise to investigate and not the incendiaries. Today Mr. Villares didn't make a single reference to the incendiaries, not a single reference to the incendiaries! [[Applause]] However, there was a criminal incendiary activity that caused terror, which required an exceptional response: extensions of the workers of the device. Seaga represents only 8.5. It entered on day 12, which was when the contracts were renewed, and from day 15 it was when they began to work. An exceptional response from the media as well. Never so many were available during the fire strike in October. And, of course, an exceptional response from the institutions as well. The president was in operation on Sunday, just like the advisor. The President of the Government of Spain appeared in Galicia at eight o'clock after the end of the fire strike. The Minister of Agriculture at 24 hours, and he didn't come to say that the Greeks had a mental problem, which we thank. Keeping an eye on the media constantly, reporting. And the Galician Television, in addition to the Sunday news, made a special one from 22.50 hours that was also very closely followed. More than a million people followed the special program that was done, in which, by the way, no allusion was made to networks or false news that circulated through networks, like other private media. Radio Galega had an uninterrupted 26 hours of information. And, of course, it seems to us that this is a better reaction to our public media than the week of absolute news silence that the public media had during the 2006 fire strike. The administrative response was also exceptional: the aid orders. The 16th day ends the strike; Thursday 19th is already passed the decree; and the next week, the 26th the aid order. It was 21 million euros expandable, in ten days, since the fire strike ended, prioritising affected citizens and also devoting resources to reforestation and land-fixing. And, of course, with plans already approved and expenses approved by the autonomous channels -- 10 million euros in Pontevedra that were damaged. Or the Environmental Council, with actions to stabilize soil and protect sediments in the most sensitive areas, particularly in parks and natural areas; activation of a plan against marine pollution by the Council of the Sea. The State has already announced to declare the affected area and the emergency area of civil protection and to publish the aid in the next Council of Ministers. And, of course, we're acting and working with exceptional diligence. Exceptional was also the parliamentary response. The first change in the order of the day of a full was the result of the counsellor's appearance, which came to appear when the mount was still burning. In this case outside the Rules of Procedure, the agenda has been changed for the President to answer the questions asked by a member of the opposition. And today there is an appearance, on your own request, 25 days after the end of the strike, in which they bring not only solutions, but proposals for the future. Others may think that it's a better example of what was done in Vigo, where the mayor didn't want to go to the full corporation, he didn't give an explanation yet of the operation, he didn't evaluate the affected and, of course, we don't know that the Vigo Town Hall had any help. We prefer the way of acting as President of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] Today, apart from the fact during those days, the president focused primarily on proposals for the future. He's been in opposition for days saying that the president is hiding, that he's trying to hide in plots he hasn't mentioned at any time — except the opposition, which he's the only one who's talked about plots — and that he doesn't want to make changes in forest policy. I think he took them today with the changed step. The reality has refuted their prejudices against the PP basically, and against the president. Of course, what this president didn't do today in his speech was say that there was an indiscriminate, massive and terrorist attack on the political change for the rural environment that led BNG and Alfredo's companion. This is what the Vice-President of the United States said on 26 August 2006. That's not what this president did either. Man, I don't know I've been asked for responsibilities. Of course, the two-party government has not been held responsible for anything. In eleven days, 84,000 acres were burned in August, when the device had to be operated. Now in three days they burn 50,000 scarce and ask for all the responsibilities that they didn't ask for. I want to remember that PSOE and the Galego Nationalist Block were in August 2006 at a demonstration that had never been organized again that was carried out as the slogan "Galiza against the Fire: stop the incendiary terrorism." I believe that with these questions the President's speech, in fact, took us with the changed step, and we certainly will support it. He has said that Portugal is an example of political responsibilities. I don't know if Portugal is an example, of course, we have shown solidarity with Portugal, but what is Portugal doing? For, among other things, he has convened a meeting for the next 10 November in Lisbon, from 11 to 18, at the prime minister's official residence, to expose before the Prime Minister and agriculture ministers, internal administration and defence the general functioning of the Spanish, Greek and Andalusian fire prevention system. And Mr. Tomás Fernández Couto is invited to attend that meeting. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the president gave a proactive speech. I want to thank at least one group for being in favour of setting up a specific commission to analyze how we can improve forest management, how we can improve the forest plan and how we can fight better against fires. He's set up a lot of prevention proposals. In prevention he proposed rethinking the social function of private property, when more than 95% — practically 98% — of the mountain in Galicia is private and many farms are abandoned, many have no known owner, and they also do so through two ways: facilitating compliance with the laws to the municipalities, with standards, means and coordination, and activating the Land Bank to make the lands abandoned or unknown owner profitable. He made proposals in the field of management, where I would highlight mainly what he offers him to work together on the development of the Forest Plan. Finally, he made proposals for the dynamisation of the forest sector. Only 10% is exploited in a controlled way in Galicia, and it already accounts for 3% of GDP and generates between 70,000 and 80,000 direct and indirect jobs. He finally made proposals in the criminal field. It's not the government or the policies that fire the mountain, Mrs. Pontón, I'm very sorry, it's the criminals. You have to chase 'em more effectively. First, working on social consciousness. And then, with forest research teams and non-compliance surveillance teams. A step forward in the pursuit that certainly requires social collaboration. But he made a final proposal, which is the method. The method of improving forest management and fire prevention was dialogue and agreement. I proposed — I insist — a specific study commission to seek a country agreement on forest policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u52	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u53	We accept the challenge, President. The mountain is a great economic value but also social, environmental, landscape and cultural value of Galicia. We will work politically to seek consensus. We trust the opposition will accept this invitation because people, the country, demand a pact among all. Here you have the opportunity, gentlemen of the opposition. That's what the country demands from us. And in this too they are exceptional, make an exception to what they usually do and accept the challenge of working together in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u54	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica, President of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I greet the boys and girls at Valga High School. There's a debate at this time somewhere in Spain about whether or not there is indoctrination in the classroom. What we just confirmed here is that there is even indoctrination to boys and girls in Parliament. That a representative of the Greek people would use the forum to indoctrinate students and students by saying that the guilt of all this has to do with the bad people who live in the PP, is, first of all, an insult to the intelligence of the boys and girls. [[Applause]] Secondly, an insult to their parents and their mothers, who vote freely in Valga, where the PP brings out a large majority absolute. And thirdly, gentlemen, it's doing the opposite of what we have to do. What we have to do is tell the boys and girls, giving them information, who have their own opinion. And then convince them that, in the same way that our generations were not able to solve structural problems on the mountain, that they were able to do what we didn't do. That's the big difference between us and some parliamentary spokesman. [[Applause]] In any case, each one, as is logical, has his own opinion, and with everlasting witness in the Journal of Sessions, and from time to time you have to read it with great interest. I'm glad you quote what was said on other occasions in the Session Diary. I come here to answer what my government did, and if you want to put it in comparison to what they did to previous governments, we can do it, but I don't think it's in the interest of either the BNG or the Socialist Party. And since it doesn't interest BNG or the Socialist Party, I won't. To say that I appear and that I have no self-criticism, man!, with all due respect, I don't have to say that everything worked out well when four compatriots died. It would be a fear in which, of course, I will not fall. But to say from this rostrum, as was said by the representative of the BNG, that the cause of the fires in Galicia is as a result of the arsonists and the incendiary policies of the PP, is something I cannot accept, Mrs. Pontón. You come back again, with the effects of 2006, saying that those responsible for that fire strike were the mayors of the PP, and I think that's unfair, it's unworthy. I can't accept you telling him that the responsibility of the fires is for the incendiary policies of the PP, and I ask you to rectify it now that you will have occasion. Your Honor, self-criticizing everything you need. You made an allegory to the Prestige. I don't know what Prestige refers to, if it refers to the 2006 Prestige, that of the Bipartite fires, or the other Prestige. We are realizing what we have done and we have not come here to explain our forest policy, which also, but to explain what happened in Galicia from 2009 to now, this year 2017. If you want to compare the effective fire extinguishing and prevention policies of this government, you have the possibility not only to take 48 hours, but to take nine years. I'm sure you're not interested. So it would be surprising if you kept the idea that those who plant the fire are the arsonists and the people of the PP. You say there weren't enough means. You know it's not true. Never in October, in Galicia's history, there were as many means as now: 5,600 troops. Never! Jamais! Tell you we weren't ready. See, on October 10, we declared high danger in Ourense and in the forest districts of Lugo, Sarria, Terra de Lemos and Ten Tabeeros in Pontevedra. We resumed work from 10 October to 31 October, which was then expanded to 12 November, 400 public service brigades. And we're restarting the work of the staff of the focal points from October 10th. On Wednesday, October 11, we declared a high danger throughout the community, and it was up to me to require the incorporation of brigade personnel, vacation personnel and cover the casualties. On Friday, October 13, we declared an emergency situation and extended the order of Tragsa, 26 brigades, which ended on October 16, and therefore continued. We extended Seaga's order to 125 brigades, which ended on October 12, and hired three additional air vehicles. I know that then there's a union that denounces counseling, counseling, and the general manager for hiring exceptionally. Allah and their conscience! The fire extinguishing personnel must go to the court in the face of allegations of exceptionally effective and air-related recruitment. Allah and their conscience! Allah and their conscience! We did it. Maybe they'll report us again. I hope not, Your Honor. If you can intercede, I'd like to thank you very much. You also speak, and the spokesman for the Socialist Party, that 112 personnel were chaos. Between 21.30 p.m. on Sunday and 8.30 p.m. on Monday, 83% was increased to the template, exceeding 150 per cent to the template at times. We have responded to 9,000 calls, the double of an ordinary situation, but as there is nothing to hide and we certainly want to report to the House and continue to propose measures, the vice president will appear at the next plenary, Mr. Leiceaga. I'm sure you have an opportunity to discuss with the Vice-President, with regard to 112, what measures we have taken, how many calls we have answered, etc., because I think we have to measure some of the issues that are raised here. To say that the councillor went to Cervantes and that he took helicopters after him is another fallacy, for not saying a fatter word, because the helicopters were permitting the area and ending the extinction of the fires, and they had in Cervantes 17 helicopters for these three days to extinguish the wave of fires. Mrs Pontón, I ask you to correct me again, because it is good simply to be honored, from the point of view of a Member and a Member, and not to twist and distort reality. I don't think you have the right to slander or insult anyone. And I don't think you can tell the counselor that the helicopters were going to Cervantes because she was going. That's absolute falsehood, and I'm just asking you to correct it. Yes, Your Honor, there's nothing wrong with rectification. On the contrary, rectification is something very big when the person is big. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that even Mrs Pontón takes a statement from the President of the Board that I did, indeed, on October 11, and says that I said there was no problem in the Atlantic area anymore and, consequently, I was not concerned about the Atlantic area. I have the statement here, if you want me to read it, I'll read it. If you have it, then you did lie again for the third time. I'll read exactly what I said. As you can imagine, I don't agree with that qualification. We know exactly the fires we have, there's an Atlantic zone, an Atlantic zone, where the risk has fallen. An Atlantic zone, not the Atlantic zone, but an Atlantic zone. How many acres were burned in the Atlantic area of the Coruña, Mrs. Pontón? I'm surprised you lie to the House in ten minutes for the third time. Imagine if you had an opportunity to talk for an hour! And I added, literally — Leo — we're working in the fires and we're acting in spite of extreme weather conditions. We didn't have a season like this, at least we didn't remember. We continue to insist that the risk of fires is highest right now." October 11th. As you have the statement, Members who don't believe me all they have to do is read it, and from there see who they believe, whether to you when you lie, or to me when I tell the truth. Your Honor, we are going to continue working on this matter, and what I am most grateful for Mrs Pontón's intervention, in addition to asking her for these small corrections which I think are coming, is to tell you that I remain with the BNG will to collaborate on the answers we can give in the future. That's good for me, because I think that's what the Greeks and BNG voters deserve. What BNG had done in the past, that's already mad, the important thing is what BNG does from now on. And you have the possibility of being useful; of being useful to your voters, and more importantly, of being useful to Galicia. Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, I don't think you're very affected when he says that climate conditions were not exceptional, absolutely exceptional. They were absolutely exceptional because it coincides with the most dry year we remember, an anticyclone marked in October. It's the first time a hurricane's approach to the German back. If this is not exceptional; if it is not exceptional to have the driest soil of the last sixty years; if it is not exceptional to be on dry alert throughout the Mino-Sil demarcation and in seven areas of the Galicia-Costa demarcation, if that is not exceptional...! If it's not exceptional an October marked by an anticyclone on the first fortnight, marked by constant anticyclonic weather conditions; if it's not exceptional that he takes the rest of a hurricane on the Greek coasts — and I would add it all over the Greek territory — with winds of 100 kilometers, if that's not exceptional, Mr. Leicega, what do you think may happen more? It's very difficult what's never happened, that between a hurricane with an anticyclone in the dryest year and the year with the driest soils of the last sixty years. On Sunday, October 15, almost 90% of Galician territory was at maximum, extreme risk of fire. If you take the map, which is at your disposal, except the Navy is shining and some Atlantic area of the Coruña — it is at your disposal — you can check how we were in that situation. To say it's very ballad and not serious about incendiary terrorism and high willfulness. Man, the day the most fires occurred in 2017 was August 21, 51. October 15th, 131. With two or three hours more sun in August, the day we had most fires in the dryest year was 51 fires; and with less hours and in the month of October, in one day, 131 fires. You think that's not exceptional? It's not just exceptional, it's exceptional! Isn't it exceptional that 65% of the fires that day had started since the aircraft couldn't fly? It seems to be something at least surprising. Pino: two outbreaks in Coruña. Of the few in the province, 20 and 23 hours on Sunday. In Lugo, Monforte de Lemos. Monday at 00:15 minutes. Since October 3, five fires have been registered near the houses in Monforte de Lemos. The hour of the start of the Cervantes fire, at dawn, was at 21.50 p.m., and at Donís, at 10.10 p.m. In Ourense, Vilariño de Conso, five starting points from the fire on Thursday at 3:45 a.m. Vilarino de Conso and Veiga de Camba, starts on Saturday at 20.27 minutes, and from 1 August we have 17 fires in this municipality. Maceda, Castro de Escuadro, five fires at 9 o'clock. It starts on Saturday at 8.30, another at 10.30, another at 4 in the morning, another at 7.03 minutes, and another at 7.07 minutes. From July 1st, 49 fires in Maceda. And in Pontevedra, in Ponteareas, four points at the start of the fire on Sunday night at 00:00. And in the last three years, in this county of Ponteareas, 76 fires. Ask the mayor. Tell him what you told me, Mrs. Pontón. Ask the mayor of Ponteareas. I never said we were convinced that there was a plot, that's what I left for other political leaders. I didn't say in any case that there was an organized plot. If you'd like, I'll read to you what the chief commissioner of Vigo, the lieutenant colonel of the Civil Guard of Pontevedra, Spain's environmental coordinator and urbanism prosecutor, and the decree of delicacy of the Galician Superior Prosecutor's Office. "Think of the possibility of a criminal act beyond mere occasional authors with known criminological profiles." That's what the prosecutor's office says. I know there's good tax and bad tax here. When they give Mr. En Marea a reason, he's a good prosecutor, and when they don't give him a reason, he's a bad prosecutor. That's an interesting way to judge prosecutors. [[Applause]] I don't think, Mr. Leicega, that you agree to say some of the things that you have said, therefore, willfulness is maximum. I repeat that if in a month of August, the 21st, the day with more fires, there were 51, and in October there were 131, as is logical, if that's not exceptional, there's no exceptionalness of any kind anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not up to me, but it's up to me as any citizen to read the Criminal Code. And or Criminal Code — I say to people who have an interest in realising or who say, because here it is hidden — Article 573 says: "The commission of any serious crime against life or physical integrity, liberty, moral integrity, sexual freedom and compensation, heritage, natural resources or the environment, public health of catastrophic risk, fire, when carried out for any of the following purposes. One. To seriously alter public peace. Two. To cause a state of terror in the population or part of it." Don't you think it's reasonable to discuss and deepen on this matter? And what this criminal code has just done is that the actions of terrorists are no longer necessary to be grouped or coordinated, but that it is worth an individual action. We'll see at the top of Castela-León and Asturias what we're going to propose. We'll see what the presidents think. But to say that there is no incendiary terrorism here—as the spokesperson for BNG pointed out very well—when that was law for nationalists and socialists... it turns out that now it's no longer worth using. I'm going to use that denomination, it's my duty to say what I think. I'm convinced that if we believe that what sets fire on a pile caught in houses is just one more criminal, there you are!, for me, an incendiary terrorist, concrete or non-conforming the criminal code precisely. But we'll have a chance to discuss the code, the same way that we modified the Criminal Code up to 20 years in prison for the incendiaries on a proposal from the Government. Mr. Leicega, I thank you for putting on that commission that you were, by the way, proposing. I'm glad you're going to take a look at 30 measures, and I appreciate it because I think it's appropriate for us to sit down and talk. The spokesperson for the People's Party has just come to terms with Portugal. Indeed, this commission of the Portuguese Parliament says that 90% of the fires were provoked, and it also says that we must copy the Spanish firefighting service, particularly Galicia. I don't think, Mr. Leicega, that you can't value the extinction service we have, because this really doesn't seem right. Mr. Leicega, failure has not been the policies of the Greeks in recent years, proof of this is that we can compare the hectares of times and other times. I don't think it touches this period and this session, but the truth is, when you say it's a failure, I don't think it's a failure that 20,600 Greeks would acquire a plot or sell it or exchange it without paying a euro. I don't think fiscal policy in rural areas is a failure. I don't think it's a failure all the proposals we've been putting on the table, and much less those we've taken on this law of measures, which I hope to count on you for your approval, for your modification, or for the additions that you consider appropriate. Honestly, I think there's a lot of things that are doing well, and actually I turn back to how it was going the year. If we took eleven thousand acres with the driest year, with the lowest year of water on the ground, the warmest year. If this toughest year in the series we'd take eleven thousand acres to those 48 hours, what's going on? What are we wrong about our entire policy of extinction in 48 hours, regardless of what we've done for the past nine years? No Greek believes that, Mr. Leicega and Mrs. Pontón. No German believes that. And we need to talk to the Greeks, because if we don't just make stories, stories of black novel like what the spokesperson for the Tides of Podemos did, which was a story that he was there!, who is author of the same, I suppose, of reading it here. You have presented further cessations, and I haven't had the opportunity to point them all, but you may propose more in the reply. Cease the right and the left I don't think it belongs to a responsible government. Maybe that's what happens in the party you're in, because there's a series of cessations, every week they cease to be one. That's right, everyone from Madrid! Cesan to Cataluña from Madrid, they stopped to Galicia from Madrid. From Madrid you cease those who love you. You don't get angry, we're in a parliamentary debate. [[Murmurs.]] It seems that Mr Breogán has not ceased in Galicia, who rests in peace. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, they didn't stop Mr. Breogán, and they put it on you because it's up to you. I agree that you are responsible for Podemos in Galicia, but I think your spokesperson should be a little thinner when he talks about cessations at discretion. Of course there's one single command. You should know the law to explain that the only command exists and that the only command has been exercised. In the single command, the device corresponds to the Director General of Forest Management, and at all times that director general was in front of the operation, where I was and I could check it out. In each fire, there's a fire director of extinction who depends on that command. What's going on? That if there is an extraordinary situation—which is what happened on Saturday and Sunday for a few hours—the only command, according to the law, corresponds to the Provincial Delegate, Territorial Delegate, of the Galician Union, which was what happened. So there's a single command. You can discuss whether that one command works properly or not, but of course there was one command! In fact, in the province of Ourense we were concentrated on those orders in Cea, Castro Caldelas and in Baños de Molgas. And in the province of Pontevedra, in Pazos de Borbonne, As Neves and Gondomar. The rural councillor and the vice president of the board were where we thought it was more important. The advanced command post, which has been in three places in Pontevedra and in three places in Ourense, are the ones I have just mentioned. And I, which is my obligation, since after lunch I've been at the focal point, as is logical. I don't know if I'm being criticized for putting in the media or hiding information. It turns out I'm being criticized for putting in the media. Mr. Leicega, Mr. Villares, do you think that if a radio or television calls and you want to know the president's opinion, it's best to hide it, or just face it? He doesn't think I've been in more media than other leaders of the Socialist Party. Sometimes he would come in after them. There was even one leader of the Socialist Party who described in detail that there was no material means in his county to go against the fire, and that leader of the Socialist Party was in Madrid. Allah is over them, and there are their responsibilities! I'm not saying I didn't have any justification for being in Madrid, but what I don't think is reasonable is that he's describing the situation of his county not being in the county. But there are the responsibilities of everyone! I think it's the government's responsibility to face up to that moment in Galicia, to face up to everyone. And as long as I'm president, I'm going to keep giving my face, with the fires and any planning that takes place in Galicia. You have no doubt. [[Applause]] I want to reassure Mr. Villares about the deadline for the aid decree, because the period is one month extendable to three. And I also want to assure you that if there are people who have not been able to believe their damage within 30 days, of course, we have to extend that deadline, and exhausted within three months, we have to continue to extend the deadline. The offices are one in Cervantes and another in the Neves, but the deputies of the Union have the obligation, and of course the mayors have the commitment, to forward to the Board the list of problems, because when we went to visit the mayors, the mayors well know the problems they had at their municipal level. And, Mr. Villares, don't worry about it because the decree speaks of the intent of the fires. Indeed, the aid order speaks of willfulness, because what we want is that this order has a certain vocation of permanence for the future, and it's not the same when the fires are intended or when the fires are not intended. In our opinion, in that wave of 264 fires in 48 hours, it's very hard to say they weren't meant to. It's true that there are fires coming from previous fires, but most of the previous fires were intended fires, regardless of whether secondary fires had come from original intent. Everyone considers himself to be intentional fires, and I don't think we have any problem about it, but I assure you that, if we have any problems about it, nothing happens to change what is necessary to guarantee the rights of the Greeks. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to do interesting things. We submit to their own opinions. First of all, we have a great opportunity to know, add, modify and propose the new forestry plan in Parliament. We have the second big opportunity: to enter a specific study committee to analyze the 30 measures I have just proposed and those you consider. And you also have a chance, this time urgent, because we have to pass the Law on Tax Measures, and in the Law on Administrative and Tax Measures there are several matters related to the fires of the 30s I just mentioned. If you think you can change or improve, tell us. If you want to add something, we can see it. But our goal is that on January 1st half of the measures I just announced are in force. Clearly, structural and planning issues need this commission, which the Government offers and in which the Government makes itself available to the opposition. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u56	Thank you, President. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u57	Mr. Feijó, I have to tell you that I haven't seen so much sovereignty, so much prepotence and so much paternalism for a long time. Sovereignty, prepotence and paternalism. [[Applause]] You come here and give meats from those who tell the truth, from those who tell the lie. I used to be guilty of all the evils in this country, now it remains so wide saying that I lie. By misrepresenting reality, of course, you know yourself, and what shows us is your lack of scruples in politics. Look, I keep every word I said in this plenary, every one of my words. [[Applause]] In fact, Galicia does not burn, Galicia does. Burn the incendiaries, of course, but also burn the piromanian policies of the People's Party governments. It also burns Galician chance of eucalyptus, burns Galician failure to comply with the legislation, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Or do you buy forest legislation in this country? What does your government do, so worried about complying with the law, looking elsewhere? Mr Feijóo, indeed, there are responsibilities that do not depend on the Government, but there are others that depend directly on what you decide. And, look, I'm surprised. You come here and say you praise the work of all the brigadiers, of all the people who have been fighting against the fire. Oh, now yes, when you don't give him the reason, it turns out that everyone lies but you. Look, you cut the device, cut it over the years. It's more -- I'm telling you -- there's 20 per cent less land resources and 31 per cent less air resources if we compare what's happening right now with 2009, and when we want to check it out. I have here the media that picks up their words, and they say: "Faijó rejected the adjective dismantling to qualify layoffs in the sector, and assured: 'in the Atlantic area the risk has obviously dropped'." This is what the media collect. I didn't see that you had currently issued any disqualifying notes and saying that that was a lie, and here comes to review your own words. And look at what they're saying to you from the media that they're working on the fight against fire, those people you're forced to listen to, "Forest fire unions demand the adviceer's resignation from the manifest incompetence in managing the public prevention service and for falsifying data in Parliament." That's what the brigadiers are saying. They also tell us that "there was a lack of prevention, lack of planning and continuing improvisation of the rural environment." Mr. Feijóo, you accused me of lying to say it was false, not dismissing Seaga's brigadiers. I have here -- because it has also been published in the media -- the mail that sent to Galician Union, which said they would join on Monday 16. Mr Feijóo, Monday, 16 says in the mail that he has been sent, and — I insist — are the decisions he has taken by his Government. It was also the workers of the Extinction Service themselves who criticized the advisor's visit. It's just that they didn't criticize the BNG, they said they mobilized means for a fire when it was already extinguished. They said! Then why do you say that you defend the extinction services, and then, when you criticize what you do, you say that everyone's mind less Feijóo, which, of course, we all know is the king of truth? I think it's not serious, it's not responsible and it's not fair for this country that you come with this frivolity to deal with such an important issue for our future. He didn't answer something that's important, and it's if you listen to the advice you gave when you were in the opposition. I'm going to repeat, "Let's teach this country a lesson, we assume our responsibilities. We can't leave here as we go in, we can't say nothing happened here. I'm asking you to do what I'd do if you were in your place, stop counseling directly responsible for the greatest environmental disaster in the last 16 years. To accept an investigation commission to really know what happened. And I offer you what I'd like you to offer me if I were in your place. I offer you that, once the investigation commission is established, we will make the forest pact this country needs." You want to remove the management of the wave of fires from the analysis about what happened those days, and I think it's an irresponsibility. Because all political forces have to know, and this country has to know, what is missing in this kind of emergency situation. You can't come here, after all that's happened, and say that everything worked perfectly and that there's nothing to review in the emergencies; that the Government will come and you'll come around and tell us how things are done, because it's obvious that things are failing and that there are problems that are denouncing the workers of these services, and they can't come here to disregard as if their opinion had absolutely no value at all. A BNG initiative is going to be discussed at this very plenary session, which is that we propose the least that we believe we have to do in the face of such a situation. That there is a commission that studied what happened during the fire strike, what changes need to be made in forestry policy, emergency policy, rural dynamization policies. Let me also take as a basis a work which this Parliament has done and which, of course, you boycotted because at that time it seemed very little that there had been a commission of study that had completely investigated everything, and they didn't even get to work after such a serious situation as that. We, of course, are going to work in all areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u59	...and we're never going to make the mistake and the irresponsibility you made when you didn't have government responsibilities. We're never gonna do that! [[Applause]] Never! [[Applause]] And you can laugh, Mr Feijóo, but I think this is a matter that's serious enough to keep Parliament from falling apart. [[Applause]] So that Parliament won't fall for it! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u61	I think it's a sufficiently important issue. Yes, yes, because it's the feeling you give every day that comes here, I'm sorry to have to tell you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u62	It's over now, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u63	And I'm sorry to have to tell you in a debate about these characteristics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u65	Mr. Feiséo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u66	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u67	...I think the responsibility you have is to look into the mirror of your past. Today we've all been here very respectful of the deformed images...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u68	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u69	...and, of course, terrible ones that left us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u71	...the opposition of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u73	We have a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u74	Thank you. Timed out
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u75	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u76	No, your time is over now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u77	We have a responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u78	Your time is over, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u79	...with this country, but our responsibility is not to tell the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u81	...that after a situation of national emergency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u82	Your time is up, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u83	...nothing happened in this country, which is basically what you came to tell us today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u84	Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u86	Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u87	Good morning again. The truth is, I think you're doing an exercise here that has some complication, because, on the one hand, you're told that it's all perfect, that there was nothing wrong with forest policy, with fire fighting device, and then you come to propose 30 measures that range from structural changes in the operation of the rural world to certain changes of silence in the whole of the device. And the two things at once are difficult to make them compatible. That is why we propose that we discuss the latter — that we believe that they are absolutely essential and necessary, that they are very late — but first, to be credible in the latter, we must comply with the demands of responsibilities on what has happened on this subject. And without that need of responsibilities accomplished by you, it's not going to be very amazing everything that comes after. We can be in front of a strategy -- say -- catopardsca, of trying to make everything change so that it's all the same. If you look at the primary responsibility for all the forest policy and the fire-fighting device of all the time you've ruled and the time Mr Fraga was ruling — at least part of it — he's still facing the forest policy and fire-fighting device, how will these structural changes that you promise be credible? That's the problem. Look, Mr. Fernández Couto — who I know has made a great personal effort in those days, not to question him — first introduces the Pladiga and says his goal is to burn only 15,000 hectares this year. But only on that weekend 50,000, in addition to the rest of the year -- that is, it's multiple by four -- let's say -- the goal. What would happen in a company, if your manager had that error of deviation in that target? Second. He admits in July that prevention didn't work, but it turns out he doesn't do anything and in October we have this result. Third. He is responsible for declaring the high risk, but in that high risk statement he recognizes that since early October he is aware that a catastrophe could occur. Of course, to be credible in his reformist will — which I take as a reference because I think it is a duty to get out of this debate by telling society that we are willing to change all those necessary things in forest policy, in the management of the mountain, in fire-fighting policy, so that Galicia can no longer face such a situation again — to be credible in that reformist strategy, you have, first, to clear up responsibilities in your Government, because the responsibility of what happened is your Government. I don't question the weather exceptionality at all in October. On the contrary, I said it was exceptional. But you can repeat it again, because precisely climate change, which comes to stay, advances in that direction. And just because the situation in October was exceptional, you can't tell us that the firefighting device was the most complete one ever in October. In fact, if you knew that there was an exceptional situation and that there could be a catastrophe, they had to strengthen the device, but they did it late and with some failure. They were late because, as you will remember perfectly, until the 16th, these 125 Seaga brigades who had completed their contract on October 12th were not included. They didn't join until day 16! Some people were able to join because they were phoned a little earlier, but it was expected that most of them would be incorporated by day 16, and that was what happened. And neither the municipal brigades were operational at more than 25% at that time, despite exceptional circumstances. And some air media were missing too, which we could detail. Finally, the question of Portugal. What Portugal did, after the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, was to create a commission of analysis, of study... finally of evaluation of the situation, which in six months produced a document that was just handed over in October. By the way, with the participation of German technicians. In that case it wasn't Mr. Fernández Couto, but it doesn't matter. Indeed, Portugal had and has a situation in which at many extremes it is behind us, no doubt, which explains the situation. And it has a situation in the rural environment of deforestation and forest monoculture in some areas that causes the risk situation to be greater than in Galicia. That's what Portugal explains. It's all about not going in that direction, but taking the good thing that makes Portugal. And what it does is to establish a consensus on changes in forest policy from the conclusions of that research commission. That's what we have to do, a commission that works on a technical basis, but has to have political consequences for reasons. And those political consequences are what we hope this has as well. I mean the consequences of change in how to face the mountain in Galicia in its various aspects. From property to species mix, management forms and how to make fire prevention and extinction, that some things have to change. Finally, as a result, what do I ask of you? First of all, as you did in 2006, I ask you to cease the direct perpetrators of this. You'll know who to stop. To me it would be a sarcasm that had ceased the advisor and not the head of forest policy, because we all know what's going on, the advisor supports the general director, but he supports it in both directions of the word. And you have to stop them both. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u89	And, secondly, from that point on, let us promptly put in place in Parliament this study commission which you propose — and we also accept — to change forest policy and fire suppression policy in a consensual way, because Galicia so demands and because Galicia so needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u90	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, said Rafael Risinge Vega — one of the best researchers in the management of the territory of our country — that the fires are the fever, they are the symptom of a sick territory. With this image he meant what we want to move here today, which, beyond the mismanagement of available resources — which we reject and criticise and for which we ask for responsibilities — that beyond the fact that there are causes linked to people who set fire to the mountain, there is an essential structural problem, and that problem is the current model of land management, which is a complex problem and therefore requires complex solutions, diverse and multisectoral solutions. There is a current model that has failed: the rural abandonment model with loss of agricultural employment. There are problems in the transformation of agricultural soils into forests. It also failed to manage forest masses, and that forest oligopolies only sought their own wealth, without thinking about the common good. It also missed the assumption of climate change, the policies of natural resources predation and confusing land management with urbanism and speculative land use. You have to walk all this way, and that's not going from day to day. So I agree with what you said: to walk this road you need to take several steps. The first one was commented here by others who preceded me in the use of the word. It is necessary to remove some of the political leaders from this outcome. Among other things, because, if you don't, the policies that are intended as alternatives will not be credible in which, for a very long period of time, you've carried out countermeasures with the same policies and policies and with the same technicians and with the same techniques. We know it won't stop any of the advisors, but at least reconsider and seriously consider doing so with some of the general directors. We believe that this would give rise to the period which now seems to want to begin — in which, of course, it will take us on its side — to be really credible. We proposed jointly with the Socialist Party the creation of a study commission which was rejected by you last week, without going further, and now comes with a proposal that, with a similar name, intends to cover this field of study. Well, we bless you for this, and of course we will be actively involved in this committee to study all these measures. I've already come forward to you that later, if I have some time left, I'll come in and comment on them in particular, though I don't think he'll give me time. We believe that most of them are assumed, in many cases already legislated, and that they require only and only the political or administrative will to put them into effect, but we believe that this is a good step. With all these considerations, with the creation of the commission of study, with some of the proposals that you bring to the House today, we wanted to ambitiously address a national pact through the territory. When we talk about the pact, we talk about the need for dialogue, the need for and the will to reach agreements, the need for transition, the need to think that there are people in front and people next to the people who think differently and that it is necessary to achieve a new social consensus, an intergenerational social contract, so that this is sustainable. That pact must be of a national character; that is, it cannot be reduced to one or two sectors, it cannot be reduced to spaces that have economic interests, it must go all social spaces, all political spaces, all spaces of citizen participation, bound by that covenant for them to sit as their own. And it is necessary for that national pact to be on the territory, it is not enough to tie it to the forest. This requires a much broader policy, a much wider intervention. It is implicitly announced here, setting out proposals for measures which are notoriously transversal and which far exceed the forest area. We also blessed the Galician Union for going on that line. Let's hope she's honest. Look, the fires came to the cities, and they came to the cities because the territory is a unit, it's not a problem of the countryside. It has an integral social pact that generates a safe and sustainable society throughout the territory. So the mountain doesn't burn up another model of country, territory, understood as something alive, like a total ecosystem, rural and urban, natural and human. For us the minimum points of that national pact by the territory have been partially pointed at by you. We think they're all needed but insufficient. We want, first of all, a live rural, where there are essential services so that people don't have to leave and have expectations for the future. We know that it is only possible to keep the countryside alive, to preserve the territory, if there are people living in it, that is why we so often demand health care, education, social assistance, services to our elders, because we believe that this is the way to keep the entire social fabric alive in our country. Secondly, to take climate change decisively, cross-sectionally, by promoting renewable energy sources, energy saving, sustainable mobility throughout the territory. Three. We believe that it is necessary to change a forest model based on multifunctionality, sustainability, diversity, and to end forest monopolies. It is necessary to establish the discontinuity of the forest masses so that the fires produced are not uncontrolled. Four. It is necessary to promote and recover the agricultural model that generates life and wealth in rural areas; to stop the forestry of agricultural land; to maintain, respect and increase the distances of security; to mobilize agricultural land; to place the PDR and the CAP firmly at the service of the productive economy; to reopen, maintain and revitalize agricultural extension offices; to count on mountain communities; to seek part management. Finally, it is necessary to fully manage the territory, the rural environment and the urban environment, putting an end to the speculative uses of the ground. Urbanism is not territorial planning. It's necessary to make a single impression...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u93	...—I have finished—of all this phenomenon. We are willing to speak and to come to agreements by passing along for the benefit of the country, for the benefit of a way of understanding politics and life, understanding that the territory, the land, is not what we inherit from the ancestors, but what we guard for those who are about to come.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u96	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u97	Let me have some dates. "What we can't have is the summer force all year long because that has to be paid, and there's no need to have that device, a volume three times higher, because it wouldn't be possible to finance it." End of first date. Second. "We don't think more means would yield much better results, because when people want to do harm, they end up producing more focus." End of date. Third date. "A system of extinction, a firefighting operation, an operation of a country, is never drawn to meet the peak of the greatest exceptional crisis there can be, neither in this or in any country." End of third appointment. Fourth date. "When fire is so widespread, more means do not add effectiveness." I am, respectively, the Director General of Montes in 2006, the Rural Media Adviser of 2006, the President of the Government of June 2006 and the Minister for the Environment of 2006. And I say this because to a good extent what you're saying is that the president has to present or demand the cessation, the resignation, to a number of operators precisely because the media were mismanaged. And what's said is that's what the president asked for in 2006 when he was in the opposition. What you don't understand is that it didn't happen the same way as in 2006. In August 2006, there were fewer fires, for example, in August 2005 or 2003 and, however, twice as many hectares were burned than in 2005 and 10 times more than in 2003. This October, on the other hand, there were six times more fires than the previous year. The average fires in October of the five years before this was 72 a month, and this one we had 614, eight times more than in the last five years. Therefore, this government, unlike that government, if it faced an exceptional situation, therefore this government does not have to demand the cessation of a number of people who have worked well. The firefighting operation proved its effectiveness this same summer in the season at the highest risk. From July to September, 60 percent less hectares had been burned than the average summer since 1990, and it was the same climate-complex summer, therefore the effectiveness of the extinguishing device and the political direction of the device is indisputable. But in addition to the circumstances, there's a second thing that wasn't the same as in 2006. In 2006 the Government had changed the extinguishing device. The year 2006 will cease 50% of district heads, 100 percent of provincial heads and 90% of top operational fire managers. This was the differential factor of 2006. In 2006, the Army didn't come, and no agreement was signed with the Emergency Military Unit, because it was said that the military couldn't extinguish fires. There was no political decision this year that had affected the fire device, which was in 2006. Therefore, there are different reasons for requesting a resignation in one year or for another year. There's another difference in 2006, that's true too. We didn't count on a platform -- like when ruling on the left -- that when ruling the Bipartite said -- and I quote textually -- "The administration is overwhelmed, no one could do more." And they burned nearly twice as many acres as on this occasion. But well, that's what we have. After the example — and I say for antonyms of the appeals you have dedicated to the president — of humility, of transition, of scrupulously respect for others and of responsibility, I, Mrs. Pontón, very sorry that you fell into personal disqualification, because I don't think you honor the political career that you have in recent years. What we have to recognize today is that the president of the board has set us up in a different scenario than you predicted, took them with his changed foot. We are faced with a situation totally different from 2006 in climate conditions, the management of extinction and institutional responsibility, but there is also a new way to react politically to a wave of fires like the one we live in in October. He called upon the agreement to facilitate the cleaning of the mountains, to look for formulae of action in the abandoned or unknown mountains, to improve the investigation of incendiary crime, to facilitate productive activities on the mountain. And now we have the opportunity to arrive at country agreements, which is what you were asking for in the last few days. First, in the Law on Legislative Measures, the regulatory amendments that are being dealt with in this Parliament. Second, with emergency management, with the call last week of the work group between the Board, the Deputies and the Fegamp for the emergency map reform. And thirdly, with the agreement in the process of the forestry plan, and of the forestry policy in general, through a committee in Parliament to reach consensus on this. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that from last month's fire strike we have to learn that it is necessary to consensualize strategies to avoid the abandonment of lands and the disorderly proliferation of pyrophytic species. We have a problem, first of all, of public order, but we also have it in forest management, in compliance with the rules that prevent fires and also conditioned, as otherwise, by climate change. This leads to extraordinary, extreme situations that put lives, properties and natural heritage at risk. I think, either we've reached long-distance pacts, or it's possible that history will repeat itself. We certainly, President, have the determination to work to avoid it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u98	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Close this show, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech I told you that we have a disjunctiva before us. We can add one more frustration that we've already experienced the set of the Greeks with the fires, option 1. A frustration that I think many of the Greeks will feel if a sterile debate has been held in this House, which forgets the culprits of what has happened and ignores the duty to bring constructive ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think your mission is to take advantage of this matter in order to live up to a supportive conflict, I'm telling you by experience that you are wrong. There is another option, and we maintain the Government's tender hand so that we bet together for it, so that we together address — with the difference of criteria, of course, that each person may have — to the two types of spectators of this debate. I mean the Greeks who suffer from incendiary terrorism and also the people who caused that incendiary terrorism. What do the incendiaries expect from us? I have no doubt that an aggressive debate that ignores that they and only they are the culprits. They expect someone to say that those who fought against the fire are also the cause of the fire. They hope you will say a lot of the things you said in your speech, especially Mrs. Pontón. And you will welcome the fact that the unity demonstrated by the Greeks during the fires breaks precisely in Parliament. And what do the rest of the citizens who have suffered from the incendiary activity expect? They're waiting for the tragedy to happen to us. They want their unit to move to parliamentary representation. Is that supposed to omit any criticism of the performance of different administrations? Of course not. But, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has a system of prevention and firefighting at an excellent level, and it just needs to see the great misfortune that we comment on this morning that our brother country, Portugal, suffered this year to realize the excellent system of extinction we have. That is, first of all, the merit of all the Greeks, which we have devoted a great deal of public resources to this chapter. And secondly, it is the consequence of the heroic surrender of many professionals who risk their lives fighting the fires. To say this doesn't mean that it can't be improved, Mr. Leicega, but I ask you to put the same intensity in criticisms as in proposals. We present a battery of 30 measures that are already very advanced, some of them implemented, others in Parliament, in the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which are silent, because they affect all fronts of forest policy, and which are open, ladies and gentlemen, to their proposals, to their approach, to their ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have anything to say to these thirty measures? Do you agree or not that more intensive compliance with prevention rules is required? Where all administrations economically encourage owners to clean up the mountains, do you agree or not? Do you agree to ensure that 100 percent of rural municipalities have firefighters or forest brigades? Do you agree or not? Do you agree that rural Aprol and most employment workers — a total of EUR 12 million — should devote themselves exclusively to forest work? Do you agree or not? Do you agree to make a new emergency map, yes or no? Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen, with more instruments to mobilize the lands abandoned with the unknown holder and, since we initiate the procedure, they automatically pass to the Land Bank? Do you agree or not? Do you agree that we approve stricter requirements in the nuclei protection strips? Do you agree or not? And do you agree that we increase the spread of prevention measures, especially among the younger ones? Do you agree or do you not agree that we are moving together in a forest management agreed for the next four decades and that we are agreeing on a new forest plan that encourages native species and encourages the grouping of owners and their grouping? Do you agree to approve and draft district plans and also support each owner so that he also has a management tool? Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen, to improve extensive pastoral areas in southern Galicia, specifically in the provinces of Ourense and Pontevedra? Do you agree to move forward in the partial restructuring? Do you agree to reduce the paperwork needed for the cut-off authorizations? Do you agree to adopt measures to dynamize the forest sector, yes or no? Do you agree to take advantage of the recently created Galaga Forest Industry Agency? Do you agree on a training and employment programme for forestry treatment? Do you agree to facilitate investment on the mountain by changing the sulphur with a more flexible regulation? Do you agree with the fiscal policy that we have implemented in 2016, that we intensify in 2017 and that we will continue to deepen in 2018? All of this could make the mountains a little less vulnerable. And the question, after this appearance, is: do you agree to support it or not? Ladies and gentlemen, let us prevent together, order together, strengthen the mountain together, but above all, let us not be deceived. Of course, we would like a forest policy to ensure the zero risk of fires. But it is not possible, no government in the world has found this philosophical stone, as Portugal's incendiary waves believe; as the thousands and thousands of hectares of the first country in GDP in the world, the United States; or as it also believes another of the great countries in GDP, Australia; or as our neighbors believe in Asturias or as our neighbors believe in Andalusia. Only we have 46% of Spain's total forest mass. We are open to discussing concrete ideas, and I want to emphasize: concrete ideas. What is not acceptable is to deceive our people, telling them that there is a policy that would prevent the incendiary risk, without ever clarifying what it is; and when it is in the Government, defending what they do, and, when it is in the opposition, defending the opposite of what they did when they were in the Government. Let's not be mistaken as an enemy, gentlemen. On this subject, the opponent of the Government — and I hope the opposition as well — is out of the Chamber. So do you agree, or do you not agree, to also strengthen the means of research against arsonists? Do you agree or not that we provide more personnel with the forest research teams? They just didn't exist before, Mrs. Pontón. And also the new instruments, like a fire register or the forest surveillance network through the cameras? Tell me, Mrs. Pontón, where there were no cameras, because we're not going to get them back. Do you agree to broadcast the phone 085 so that citizens not only warn us of the fires but also of the incendiaries, of the motorcycle plates, of the car registrations, of the people coming out of the mountains in the morning? I hope you agree. I hope so, ladies, because the incendiaries attack everyone, without noticing the ideology or the vote of the neighbor who forces them to flee, from what they burn the house or what they kill. Do we agree on this or not? We have a common enemy and no German would understand that he collaborated politically with it. I do not ask for this unit debate around the Government but rather about Galicia. I call for unity around Galicia, Galicia and Galicia. And that's why, because I think a president of the Union should never lie, nor in public statements and much less in Parliament, I leave the transcription of my statements to the Ser Chain. Naturally, Mrs. Pontón has a problem with reality and the truth. [[The President-in-Office of the Council has a role to play in the House.]] Allah! for she had the possibility of rectification. No, he lied twice again, first and second. And in the second, even falsifying that reading. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, naturally, it is known that Mrs. Pontón is not sovereign. As the spokesperson for the PP said, it is not only superb but also not correcting a single word of what he said during all his intervention. I, of course, apologize if I haven't been happy in some of the expressions, in this and any other intervention that may occur. But, Mrs. Pontón, I cannot cease a member of the government who has produced the greatest environmental catastrophe in Galicia's history, first, because it is not part of my government and, second, Mrs. Pontón, because it has not been stopped for what it could do. But that's already part of the story. I submit to the consideration of the Greeks a history of extinguishing fires for nine years. It gives me the feeling, Mrs. Pontón, that you can't even submit to it for twelve months. But that is why I would like to thank the spokesperson for the Socialist Party of Galicia and the spokesperson for En Marea, for it is clear that they will participate — that is what I understand — and that they positively value that commission. It seems, gentlemen, that there was a competition here about who is more Greek. We know that after Ana Pontón we're always on the platoon. The only Greeks here of race and conviction are Mrs. Pontón and her colleagues. [[Murmurs.]] The rest of the House are second-rate Germans. Don't worry, Mr. En Marea and Mr. PSOE, we're already used to these dequalifications. I expect them in your commission, of course; and Mrs. Pontón too. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u101	Before you suspend the session, I'll notify you of a change in the agenda, which has already been communicated to the spokespersons. After discussing the four non-legislative proposals that we will be debating today afternoon, we will raise the question of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to the Health Adviser. And now we'll suspend the session until 4:00.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u102	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with point 3 of motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the incidences detected at the beginning of the school year 2017-2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u103	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To make it speak to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u104	To ensure equal, quality and free teaching for all children and children in the country, that is the reason that inspires our motion, as a result of the debate of the inquiry we had fifteen days ago. If at that time we had the obligation to denounce the serious problems that we understand to accumulate public education after years of clearly insufficient cuts and budgets, today we have the opportunity to defend and explain a battery of measures that we understand from the En Marea Group that could help reverse some of the problems that have been reported. In this sense, they're not all that they are, but they're all that they are. These are measures that we understand necessary, that we gather from the constant dialogue with the professor and his union representatives, finally, with the entire educational community, who lives in a reality very different from the triumphalist who defends here the Government of the People's Party. It is also understood that this gap of proposals is a proposal for minimums that enable us to recover part of what we have lost in the years of austere policies of the People's Party. Our motion asks for less good words and more resources. However, the proposed budgets we have on the table do not invite optimism, but it is continuing, in the worst sense of the term, to continue on the path of dismantling and privatization of public services. Far from the investment level in 2009, there is still 4.62% of the GDP that the Government of Greece had spent a decade ago for the teaching of Greek; a figure that, in view of the forecasts for this year, will remain at 3.59%, 5 points below the state average, despite the fact that the Spanish state is the fifth in line throughout Europe. We need resources, resources to guarantee the right to education throughout the territory, and we need, above all, to stop the demolition plan for rural education. It's urgent that the closures of centers and units be paralyzed until we have a specific plan. Or we assume once the potential and wealth that rural education centres assume and the need to treat them in a specific way, as a fundamental means of guaranteeing rights and fixing population, or there will be no credible demographic policy or true wager for public education. Secondly, we propose to resume the dialogue with social agents to draw up a plan for the recovery of all the work rights of teaching staff and the reduction of inter-internity. What we are asking for is coherence and consistency between words and facts. If the Government of the People's Party wants to convince Galician citizens that these budgets are of recovery, of the end of the crisis and of growth, it's time to return to the teachers of this country everything that they've taken from them. We cannot assume that the employment model of the People's Party is that of precariousness, and first of all because the public administration should be the flag of labour rights. This is not the basis for cutting wages, it is not the basis for increasing days and interinternity. It's going to expand public employment markets and improve working conditions. It's a matter of justice, but it's also a matter of quality. It is clear that investing in the stabilization of teachers is to invest in educational quality. In the same way, we propose to guarantee the salary review clause to ensure, at least, the annual salary of the teacher equal to the IPC. The basis of an annual 1% rise, when a price increase of 2.5% is expected, is to make traps, being benevolent. Because to say that wages rise by talking about a 1% increase, when since 2013 teachers have lost some amounts ranging from €4,663 to €8,446 depending on the job and age, it's a hair boot. To say that wages rise, when teachers and teachers in this country continue to lose purchasing power, it's to fake reality. Fourthly, our motion proposes to repeal the changes imposed by Law 12/2014, so that the professor receives 100 percent of all salaries from the first day of temporary incapacity. It's not an extraordinary request, it's about defending the rights of workers and workers in this country, it's about common sense and justice. And in the same sense, he proposes to derogate the June 23, 2011 Order to recover the 21 hours of teaching of the school day. And it turns out that with these measures we would not be taking great steps forward, quite the contrary, we would only be trying to correct the defeat of the Government of the People's Party as far as the teachers' rights are concerned. Sixthly, we propose to regulate coherently the subjects that a teacher may give according to the title held, with the guarantee of the greatest possible specialty. The bet on specialization is a definitive bet on educational quality. In the same way, looking to the other side, promoting matter, it's one more step in the undervalue of the public. From En Marea we think that allowing and even encouraging that teacher, let's say, drawing ends up teaching mathematics is right in line against what this country needs. From En Marea we want music teachers who share music, math teachers who teach mathematics, drawing teachers who share drawing. It's obvious that at a time when this doesn't happen, we're condemning the student... [[Mrs. Chao Pérez stops her speech because of the noise level in the sitting room.]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u105	Please, I ask everyone to lower the volume they're talking to a little bit, because the person who's in the use of the word is not heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u106	It is clear that at a time when this does not happen we are condemning the student not to receive the specialized teaching he deserves, and we are diminishing quality. And at the same time, by opening up both the question of matters related to the subject, we are unloading on individual responsibility and on each teacher the decision on whether or not to impart these matters. In this way, we find ourselves with a professor who renounces the provision of related materials, hence competitive prejudice on the recruitment lists. The cases speak for themselves: philosophy specialists who impart music and Welsh, Latin specialists who teach Greek and mathematics. Just take a look at the lists to check how far the matter of affinity is being fired. And that's why we think it's urgent to regulate this extreme, so that we walk to a major specialty in teaching. In seventh place, we're talking about improvements and repairs in the schools. With an old public school park, as is the Greek, and after eight years of very small budget departures in this matter, it is clear that the problems in educational centres accumulate. Every start of the course, just take a look at the newspapers to see how new centers claim the need to address issues such as bad roofs, inadequate closures or air conditioning problems; every year, new centers on which urgent action is needed. That's why we propose the recovery of the level of budget cuts related to the repair and maintenance of the educational centres that we had prior to the crisis, in order to alleviate the longevity of the educational centers, preferably considering the replacement of the blankets that have asbestos. It is essential that there are still dozens of educational centres that have this dangerous material on the roofs, and that we have to act, as well as the improvement of energy efficiency and the adequate air conditioning of educational centres. We can't have education in this country more than 35 degrees in summer and less than 10 degrees in winter. Eighth, we're talking about textbooks and the need to properly address all the children in this country. As you know, the model we stand for from En Marea isn't the model of the solidarity fund, probably more expensive and ineffective than the universal loan model. Let's remember that he qualified the People's Valator himself, little suspect of sharing an ideological position with En Marea. But in this case, we bring here a request for minimums, as it is that at least they extend their model, their loan model, to all educational levels, so that they do not continue to leave out the children and children of the first two primary courses; a completely incomprehensible exclusion and that we understand that it is a comparative aggravating that needs to be corrected. In the ninth place, we want to urge the Government to account for the repetitive student for the calculation of repetitive students in the classroom. One of the enormous disincentives is the statistical scam of the People's Party Government. As we have already denounced in this plenary session, Galicia is the only community in the whole state that does not count the student repeater for the ratios in classes. Unfortunately, we have not been in this Parliament for a year, nor has the Romanian councillor or what his assistant sometimes does, Mr Fernandez Gil, nor has any other Member or Member of this House been able to explain this nonsense. On what grounds can it be justified that children and children who repeat courses do not enter the school curriculum? Isn't it obvious that repetition itself is evidence of the need for these students and students to have more individualized attention? Isn't it obvious that the existence of the repetitive student in class proves that the teacher will have to make an extra effort? Let's be serious, this doesn't stand on any side and just responds to the intention of confusing by sucking out the supposed lowest rates across the state. For Marea, the ratios should not be propaganda, but be at the service of educational quality, and should be used to indicate the needs that we have in our classrooms. Invisible repeater student does not work. We need to visualize it, account for it and offer them greater resources. That's what it's about to help someone who needs it most, that's what we're talking about when we demand equality and educational equity. And finally, and in the tenth place, from En Marea we intend to increase the support of school materials, so that, after conducting a study of these expenses, its content is tailored to the actual needs of students and families. At the last plenary meeting, the councillor came to tell me from his chair that he didn't know if 50 euros were too much or too little, because he didn't know how much families in this country spent on school every start. Anyone would say you were the education advisor! Any one of you would say I was a father! Well, as he doesn't know, so do the Members of the People's Party. They don't know what it takes to start each school. But we've already told them that the people who are outside do know. And it turns out that the bill of school material is extremely high, impractical for too many families. So, and so that the counselor can't say that he doesn't know, so that we don't have to put a random amount on the table, we propose to carry out a study on that and then expand the budget splits so that the aid covers the enormous cost that every start of the course has the Greek families. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. On the BNG side we're going to support this motion. Basically — as Mrs Chao has already explained in her speech — has as the centre of the proposals the restitution of lost and cut labour rights to the professor of this country with the excuse or under the economic crisis; a debate that has already taken place in this House, in particular — if I do not remember correctly — was in 2015 at the end of a popular legislative initiative that had brought to Parliament, endorsed by over 20,000 signatures, the IGC-Ensino. There was no success then, not even for your consideration. We hope you will have this motion now. And I say that we will support it because, to a large extent, that gap of proposals is also part of the demands for proposals — namely redundancy — which have been defending BNG both in this plenary and in Commission 4a. We believe it's time to start recovering those labor rights and also those salary rights lost by our country's professor over the past few years. And they were destroyed, in addition, jobs — and many, according to the figures provided by the Council itself — that went especially, or basically, to public education in our country, in contrast to how they were supported and evaluated, from a political point of view, by this Government of the People's Party, private-concerted education centres. We have the data here. In this course 2017-2018 there were 39 less educational units in public primary and child education, and 53 jobs, which joined the missing ones in the last six years; in particular, 69 less public schools and 450 less lost units in the public. Meanwhile, we insist, within the same period of time there was an increase of 243 units in private-concerted. The private-concert—we have denounced it here on many occasions—in addition, we have seen how this year, in April 2017, the public funds for the next six years, also included—I repeat, as we have seen repeatedly denounce them—the centres which discriminate against the student by sex and which now have the legal protection of LOMCE. We believe that these proposals — as Mrs Chao said in her speech — could allow them to take a step back in the policies so tedious and so aggressive for public education in our country that have been being implemented since 2009. And in addition, it seems particularly interesting to us that a matter which has already been discussed in Commission 4th, in which Mrs Chao in her speech made a fincapé, which is to regulate matters in a coherent manner. At present — in addition to the examples she put it — we find situations we will call them abnormal, as specialists, for example, in mathematics that they teach English and French — the case of Miguel Ángel González Institute of Arousa Vilagarcia; or in biology by imparting history; or in physics and chemistry by imparting drawing and English. It is funny that in one of the times when the great political bet of the People's Party goes by incorporating English into regular education, even at the expense of its own language — if, for example, it is illegal, according to the decree, today, to teach physics and chemistry classes in Greek but you can actually impart them in English — in that context we see how you can impart as matter related to this matter, i.e., you can impart English matter without any specific title, but, for example, to impart a non-linguistic matter in English — for example, of bilingual sections that have mathematics in this foreign language — you have to have a B2. It's a little paradoxical. We also believe that there is a need to regulate this possibility of imparting skills — without specific training — in order to increase the quality of education. Because, in addition, we know — I suppose it will — whether or not, I don't know, but in fact, because it is already a debate that has been held on other occasions — that it is a free "choice" — between quotes — of the teacher to focus on that kind of matter. We all know that in order to ensure a public position, an educational position, a job in our country's education in these conditions, if you often see yourself as a matter of concern to those who do not have enough training. And, finally, we also support the guarantee of equal access, regardless of the place of residence — whether you live in rural areas or live in urban areas — or the economic capacity of families, and that you also shield the possibility of having access to public education and quality; fairness that can be achieved — and we have defended it on many occasions — by means of progressive redistributive systems, in which you pay the most and not through double taxation to families with lower purchasing capacity. For me, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Chao, we are obviously going to support this motion because of most of its decadence — which we could actually group into six types of measures — the majority of the measures have already been presented by the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And so it would be strange, at least, that we would not support them now, since we agree. We agree in the background and we agree in the way you propose. As I said before, there are actually six groups of measures. The first referred to the programming of the center network. We have taken an initiative to this plenary, with no success, concerning that by the Education Council if it constituted a commission or a working group to plan the network of centres. It was neither necessary nor relevant because the People's Party is already responsible for planning the entire Autonomous Community. The second was also in the motions for resolutions tabled at the plenary session on the recovery of the salary and work conditions of the professor. And, of course, it has conciliated the same success on the part of the People's Party that all those who have been brought forward have tried to recover — as you have well explained and Mrs Rodil — the working conditions of the professor prior to that crisis which we are supposed to have already overcome, on the basis of that, yes, in the permanently recognized sacrifice of the public workers — in this case of the professor, who always have the congratulations and recognition of the Counsellor, or of the People's Party Member who is coming out here to speak. But, apart from that congratulations and that slap in the back, that recognition doesn't go any further; that is, there's nothing from that wage recovery, there's nothing from that recovery of the working conditions prior to that crisis that we end up paying or end up paying those who didn't have any responsibility in their origin, but that if you had the responsibility to bring forward, with their sacrifice, that economic recovery from that — I insist — whether you boast the People's Party but that very little or nothing actually moves to the workers. As far as the matter is concerned, of course it is! I insist that this parliamentary group has taken an initiative to regulate the provision of related matters. It is true that on the part of the People's Party we were told, as always, that he trusted the responsibility of the teacher to mark the matters related to whether they were willing or not to impart it. But it is no less true that, curiously, two weeks or three after this initiative was presented in this Parliament, the Council has regulated, limited, the number of matters that the professor could mark. For something it will be! Without distrust of the professor or his capacity, it was indeed relevant to the initiative of this parliamentary group, which, as always, did not count on the approval of the People's Party, since it would not be that any group in the parliamentary opposition has an idea that improves the functioning of the education system. I insist, En Marea initiative, Block initiative, Socialist Party initiative... Mr. Fernández Gil, unfortunately, you are always right, but the practice is that reality leads to their eventual recognition — sometimes earlier, later — of the proposals that are made from this side of the Chamber in its regulations, in its instructions, in its general regulation. Because — I insist — Parliamentary opposition also knows how the education system can work better without necessarily belonging to the People's Party. What about the freeness of textbooks, a financing system that has been revealed to be much more efficient in terms of student investment to benefit the whole, universality, student? In this case, in fact, you are proposing in your motion the whole educational system. Our proposal would, of course, be at mandatory stages, but we do not have any problems either, because, as it is most efficient at mandatory stages, it must be in the non-compulsory stages. And, therefore, both measure 8 and measure 10 would be part of the same group of measures aimed at facilitating those families with less resources — in the specific case of the 10 — the effective schooling of their children and children. And finally, because I'm out of time, like, I was going on a motion for a resolution to account for the repetitive student. Because it turns out that repeaters almost form part of the hidden energy of the education system, that dark mass. Because it turns out they're but they're not. And, therefore, of course, they must be computed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u112	...maximum when, possibly, they repeat, it's because they need specific attention other than those that naturally promote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u114	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. After everything we've heard in previous interventions, I want to start by pointing out that, as much as they are committed to building a story that hides this reality, in Galicia we have a quality, equitable and inclusive public education. And this is mainly thanks to the thousands of professionals who perform their services in the Greek education system and who, day by day, with their efforts and their work, deny the story that you are trying to build. We discussed today a motion that brings the cause of the question discussed in the full past, in which from this group we observed astonished how it was intended to describe an absolutely non-existent reality, loaded with false arguments that they intended only to convert into rule exceptional cases, and that they had no other purpose than trying to make them believe the Greeks and the Greeks who live in a world totally different from the one they interact with in their day to day. Because, Mrs Chao, it would be much more useful to have a serious debate on education that would start from a somewhat more realistic premise; otherwise, we are at risk of abandoning the plan of political discourse to put ourselves in the context of the creation of the dystopian novel. And, as you know, citizens are asking us to work to improve their reality and not to try to convince them of the existence of a reality different from what they know. They demand in their motion a series of measures that we have already debated on other occasions and on which we all have clear, defined and already expressed positions in this House on many occasions, they have all mentioned it. They know perfectly well that the Council is making an important effort to support the educational centres of the Italian countryside, both through the impetus of new and specific plans and by encouraging their participation in the strategies for the implementation of new technologies. The Council, since the People's Party ruled, has always had and will have the same criteria for the maintenance of unitary schools. And such a criterion is that it contains six or more students. On other occasions and with other governments, the criteria were quite different. He was closing schools with nine students. You're also talking about interminence rates in German education. But obviously they hide the fact that Galicia is the autonomous community with a lower percentage of interimity and, therefore, with greater stability at work for teachers. But, in addition, Galicia is now the autonomous community that has the lowest number of students as a teacher — 10.5 — according to the latest data provided by the Ministry. In short, it's data that they're coming to do is to deny their accounts. But let's continue to use data to deny stories. Because they know perfectly well that, despite the crisis and the restrictions imposed on public procurement, since 2009 the Council has called for public employment offers every year, except for 2012, which means a total of 4,928 squares. And with 1,112 squares, this last of 2016 was the highest public job offer in the last seven years. But they also know that the Council has led the process of asking the Central Government to increase 100 percent of the staff replenishment rate. They also talk about regulating related subjects, and they know perfectly — and Mrs. Rodil used to advance my argument, because it is true — that they are the teachers themselves, when they ask for a place, who also indicate their willingness to impart these matters. As you will understand, we will not doubt the ability of teachers who themselves show their willingness to impart these related matters. In addition, we remind them that on the 10th basis of the Order of 13 June 2017, so that rules are published for the assessment of temporary destinations for this course, it is established that vacancies generally cannot include more than two related materials, except authorization for Educational Inspection. And we don't have to doubt the authorizations issued by the Educational Inspection either. You also speak in your motion for reforms in educational institutions. And once again, we have data to deny their reports. In 2015, an important investment was made associated with a reprogramming of Feder funds, which meant running nearly 23 million euros. In 2016 the Education Infrastructure Plan 2016/2020 was approved, which allowed for the start of this exercise a programming of more than 33 million euros in action at the educational centres in Galicia. Also in 2016, as a result of the government's financial discipline, the surplus liability fund was activated. And they know perfectly well that for this year, for 2018, the Council's budget includes an increase of more than 25% for such actions. To finish, they're talking about the solid fund of textbooks asking for their expansion at all educational levels. But they know that in the case of first and second pupils of primary or special education, it's impossible, because, among other things, we're talking about non-reusable material. They have to use it and they can't lend it to others because the books themselves, the material itself, are written. Finally, we have a system of solidarity of textbooks that makes it possible to ensure accessible education for all students and that is supported in that solidarity fund of textbooks, in aid to the acquisition of books and aids for the acquisition of school materials. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u116	...—Filled, President—in Galicia we have a quality, equitable and inclusive educational system. We are aware that we must always think about improving, and so we defend it, but we cannot share their dystopian and catastrophic account, because, if we escape from reality, we will be moving away from the objective context that allows us to propose measures for the effective improvement of the system, we will ultimately be avoiding citizenship. And that, from being away from reality, from people, as you know, we'd rather leave it to you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor, by the motion's own group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u118	First of all, I would like to thank the support of the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block; secondly, surprises, few. And I want to regret once again the people's negative sovereignty, because we brought here ten measures, not one or two, we betrayed ten concrete measures on the table. And you don't accept any. There are ten measures on the table that we insist on not getting out of the bar. We didn't get up today and we said, "Let's write these," but they're consistent with the demands of the educational community. But you despise them from a pen in five minutes and with a "no." A 'no', which is not a negative to En Marea, is a 'no' to the professor of this country, is a 'no' to the recovery of his rights, is a 'we're not interested in the students of rural education centres', is a 'we don't care about families overwhelmed by every start of the course to pay for school material', a 'we're not going to move a finger for children who complain about bad school and facilities', a 'no' to bet on educational quality. Too many "no" intended to ensure that nothing changes, too many "no" meant to repeat that you are the only ones who are right. Well, I hope in your turn you spend less time talking about the debate of the day before and more than today. So, maybe I'd have time to come in and value all our measures. Because, curiously, there were several you forgot to comment. He didn't mean anything like that. He didn't want to explain to us why Galicia is the only community in the state where the repeater student is not counted to calculate the ratios in the classes. Of course, Mr. Fernández Gil, you, who was a teacher, really had no idea about it or is it hard for you to explain that precisely, as you were repeater, you know that the repeater student is, is there? Or, when I was a teacher, didn't they deserve any attention? Let's suppose not. Then you should have explained it. The same logic can be applied to the question of help for the course start. Not only do you want to vote that "no" to help families, but you want to vote "no" to know how much families actually spend. Who knows, then, how political decisions are made in the Council! Who knows why they proposed 50 euros annually and not 20 or 200 euros! It would be a random proposal. Someone would come to the council and say: 50... well, 50! We don't understand their refusal because our proposal is as much as saying that policies can't be done in the dark, but we have to know the problems to put on the table the best possible measures. But it seems that for the People's Party, the idea is one: what you don't see, it doesn't exist. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you may ignore it, but girls and children who repeat course will continue to require more attention. They may ignore it, but families will still have serious problems paying for the start-up bills. They may ignore it, but primary first and second children will also require textbooks. Do they write to us and need more? Of course, that's what we're telling them! They spend more and ensure that all children, go first or fourth grade, have the same rights. They may refuse to see him but — I assure you — they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the process of drawing up the new Forest Plan of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u120	This motion was presented with an amendment, No. 19812 from the Nationalist Block of Wales, at the initiative of Mr. José Luís Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u121	Mr Quiroga Díaz has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u122	Good afternoon. After listening to the president during the morning, I no longer know whether to save the explanations of this motion and move directly to the proposed part, since the logic is that, in line with what was announced in this House during the morning, when the time of the vote comes, the popular bench will press the red button. There'd be no other choice, we thought. Anyway, let's go ahead with it, because we're going to deal with a crucial issue for the country, as shown by the macro-digits in the sector. Of the nearly two and a half million hectares of total surface area, about 1.5 million hectares are occupied by forests of different forestry crops, and Galicia is the most resourceful community. And in fact, more than 50% of the wood destined for transformation in Spain comes out of this community. This adds a little over 70,000 people employed in the sector, between direct and indirect jobs, through these nearly 3,000 companies. In addition, forest planning conditions the landscape and the environment, or, what is the same, the health of our waters, land and air. And in case this was little, all the sectors involved and acquaintances understand that a good forest plan is going to be a crucial element in coping with guarantees of the threat of fire. Of course it's not a full guarantee, but if a fundamental foundation in that policy — and, in that sense, they have to be bound — it's a fundamental piece. The forest plan we have today governs the destinations of forests and forestry since 1992, as we all know. And I had planned to be operational until 2032. But in the same way, all the agents in the sector, all those involved in one way or another with the forest mass, with the forest, with the wood, agree that the previous forest plan does not give a proper answer to the challenges and problems that arise around this surface. It's a plan, the trial of all, totally out of line and with a totally overrun planning as well. And this has been happening for a long time. If we look at quantitative aspects, the pyrophytes and strictly forest-value species have spread out without control, without meeting any criteria or, better said, only with the north of short-term gain without any other consideration, social or environmental considerations. Thus, the forecasts of the eucalyptus doubled with regard to the initials, the large pine masses followed the same path, without in any case considering measures with a social, environmental or fire prevention cut. It's just the production criterion, the economic criterion. At the same time — as has been said in this House — many land use and agricultural vocations have been invaded by lack of control under the principles of abandonment and short-term economic performance, which is what any of us can see throughout and across this country. In Galicia of maritime influence, the forest masses are fruit of the private initiative that imitates the path drawn by large companies, with the only economicist, productiveist approach, without any other aspect that intertwines in these masses or in that supposed fully overburdened management and where public planning is absent or even sometimes, with its passivity, collaborates in that lack of control, in that overflow that we are alluding to. Inside the country, the newly implanted forest masses follow the same imitation criterion, which is solely for commercial interest. The monoculture and extension of the eucalyptus are continually alluded to. But if one runs through the interior of the country, it's faced with the same problem as the monoculture of the pine without any other element that intersperses in these large masses and then they're grown broth for the fire. So the monoculture of pines and eucalyptus, the lack of planning, the abandonment of the rural environment and the reduction of agricultural activity are creating a drifting forest landscape and endangers the viability of an extremely important economic resource, but it also has that wide environmental and landscape impact that should not be out of all forest planning. The existing operating model is exhausted. No doubt about that. Besides, it's been a long time. So we need a serious, highly consensused plan that overcomes that strictly productive aspect and develops the social dimension by boosting an environmental vision that is now absent. The proposal for guidelines has been adopted two years since 2015. This plan, which, according to the Council, seeks to lay the foundations, guidelines, of the new Greek forest plan that responds to these challenges that are demanding of us by the Greek society, is long to have reviewed. Over the years, decrees have been issued — as has been said here in this House — to regulate various aspects related to forest management, and even other attempts at decrees and regulations that have not passed from the stage of draft and public opinion polling, which have caused ink streams to run on specific aspects of forest regulation. But in the face of the situation in which you live, you don't have to walk with patches anymore, you don't need those decrees, you don't need that legislation to save a timely situation, and you have to go to the global, you have to go to a full review of forest planning. Although the Government is not tired of repeating that the guidelines are consensual — and we will hear it again — and that they are the cornerstone of the new plan, if the minutes of these guidelines are analysed, those famous guidelines of the working group and the recommendations and the final outcome of the previous guidelines, soon in them, in those acts, are found evas and suggestions of great silence that need to be resolved. And that's the chance of this motion. We need to get past these eves that were marked in the minutes of the guidelines. If we add to all of this the crucial role that forest development plays for the control and containment of the fire, even if it does not give that full guarantee, and which is a great threat from the country, no one understands the continuing delays, doubts and time changes on the implementation of the so-called forest plan. If we also know that there is already a draft of the document made by Tragsatec without participation from the sector, alone, as much as it refers to these guidelines, we must conclude that the draft, the final draft of the key forest plan for the future of the country, has been elaborated by contravening these recommendations of associations, entities and professionals; in general, of all those who have an interest in the future of the Greek forest. That's why it's necessary to remove the draft from the darkness and put it under the focus of participation for its improvement by reaching the greatest possible consensus. If you've already introduced yourself to the Council of June 30, 2017 and since then hidden in the offices, we don't understand why you shouldn't take the next step. In the morning we heard the President urge the plan to be launched. We understand, therefore, that this motion is going to be adopted, which is the only thing you want to do, to put it into action, to get it out of darkness and to place it in the center of focus, in the center of the debate, for its improvement. It cannot be, the development of the forest plan, in any other way than that of the participation of the sector, and implies it in order to be able to contribute to and arrive at a model that makes the plan good with such a soft, mutuous, sustainable and bio-diversity character of the mountain and the forest surface. For all this, we propose to Parliament that the Greek Government be urged to: First, to present the draft forest plan without further delay. And without further delay is that, already in November of this year 2017. And let it be presented to the sector involved and related to the forest world. This means companies, professional associations related to forestry, wood and forests, ecological and environmental associations, universities, agricultural unions, the Forest Council, of course, and parliamentary groups, at least, to begin the process of participation, improvement and adaptation to Galicia's socio-economic, cultural and environmental needs. Secondly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u124	...to establish a protocol — already concluded — of action and a timetable for its study, near-ends and conclusions. And, which is no less important, a third point, which is to carry out a rapid assessment — which I suppose may come out of that commission that has been announced — on forest fires since the adoption of the previous forest plan and incorporate its conclusions into the current process of development, given the profound involvement between the forest plan and the phenomenon of fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Quiroga. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. If the 92 forestry plan intended to order our mountain and guide it towards a sustainable and rational exploitation in which, in addition to forest production, other uses were made and was the basis for economic dynamization of rural areas, failure was shocking. Now, if what was intended was the implantation of the eucalyptus and pineapple as intensive and exclusive monocultures, reserve of western infrared that supplied raw materials to the Ence to manufacture hygienic paper for all Europe and board for Ikea-type furniture, the target was met with growth. The data is so soft that we are no longer stupor: duplicated the hectares of eucalyptus — of 245,000 planned for 2032, let's go by 500,000 this 2017, and the rhythm of merengue—, suffocated the milk revolution and consumed the monoculture of abandonment, the amount of abandoned agricultural land was mainly forested with this species. No one's moved a finger. The plan was there as a guide to no one going anywhere. A large part of the agrarian and mountainous properties, once in the hands of peasants and peasants who plundered their bread, were now in the hands of absenteeists who have them there as a reminder of a past, to assume that they had roots in the village and to complete their income with easy incomes that needed no care. And, in total, they didn't do anything else. The field has no future, it is hard and miserable, wet and smelly; it smokes, sweats and colds. That's why you see the eucalyptus up to the decks of the provincial roads, the beirs of the national calls, and also, like not, on the highways. The laws are to be studied by the jurists, not to be fulfilled. "If you make friends with whoever's boss and now it's a matter of vows, you can plant whatever you want and wherever you want," this is the maximum we all learn. I would say that it is the one that many have burned the fire in the people's soul, which has shown us the frankism and this post-franquism that has recently manifested itself with unusual virulence. Some of us, who know the smell too well, are very concerned. They don't think I'm slowing down. I'm seeing and talking about the matter from there, from the monoculture of abandonment, from where the masses of eucalyptus prevent telephone cover, from where the green pig commands on the living green of grass and expired leaf, from where there are no more cows in the meadows and we don't believe little in the magical kings and we don't believe anything in the other kings. Is the eucalyptus a damn tree? No, I honestly don't. But it must be pointed out that it is not a tree with enough category for our mountains and our aquifers. People who, from wood, have love and consideration for this country of a thousand microclimates and vicious soils know it's a wastelessness or condemnation to waste and ruin our mountain with an infraculty as we are doing. Is our mountain the proper surface for intensive forestry? It's not either. Our mountain invites diversity, sustainability, varied and quality woods, extensive pastures, chestnut and walnut, mushrooms and biodiversity, to support a quality wood processing industry produced in in inn circles from 30 euros per metric ton to 400 euros. In economics, numbers sing. What hidden interests are behind you so you don't hear the song of these numbers? The history of the Forest Plan is the story of a huge failure, or of its mountain policy, PP gentlemen, the story of a dual-induced monoculture that leads us to poverty, depopulation and the inertia of our greatest wealth, the soil. We are very afraid, by the guidelines you know, that this forest plan will be continuous; that is, it will be more of the same and will start from a reality that is already addicted. That's why our amendment, after the second warning with a rapture on October 15th. Take the mountain seriously. We want to give our opinion. Here is a forest plan that would be to comply and observe: to take seriously the fulfilment of the protection fringes and the distances to the infrastructure; to radically change the policy related to the rural environment and, in particular, to the mountain by establishing a moratorium on the eucalyptus and other pyrophytic species and energy crops; to guide the forest plan towards the multifunctionality of our mountain by supporting and promoting the neighboring mountains in common hand and the forest management units, uxfor, to overcome the atomization of the property and to make an orderly management according to our reality; to guide the plan towards the diversification of the cultivation of forest species by channelling it to noble woods after making a consistent management with the characteristics of our soils and microclimates, and to agree with the housing models established throughout our existence as a people; to establish a plan of recovery and encouragement of the transforming activity of wood as the previous processes materializing themselves. Will the breaker agree? It'll be not, but we'll insist on going wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u128	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Galician Forest Council has agreed, back in 2014, to create a working group. This group, in principle, was born to respond to the demand of the Galician society, in order to agree on the mountain model that is desired for Galicia, for our country, in the future, and that the model would serve as a guide in the development of the review of Galician forest plan. In December 2015, the working group concluded and approved the text of the guidelines by consensus, with the abstention of representatives of the ecological association Friends of the Earth, and concluded that this document should be considered as a result of the work of the working group as a whole. I agreed on a series of recommendations to the Galician Board for drafting the revision of the plan. And finally — at its last meeting — the proposal was accepted that the documentation prepared in the working group — the composition of the working group, the rules governing the operation of the group, documents and guidelines, recommendations to the Galician Board to take into account in the drafting of the plan, the working papers, reports, summary, etc. — had been made public and that it had been in open and fully available format by any citizen in order to equip the work and the result of the group with maximum transparency and dissemination, as a document should be. From here on, the problems come, by displaying various associations together that the text ignores the real problems of the mountain model we want for our country, erosion problems, problems by excessive increase in forest mass, etc. Today half of the trees we have in our country are less than 10 centimeters in diameter, and three out of four have less than 15 centimeters in diameter. The eucalyptus—287,000 hectares in monospecific masses and more than 500,000 in total—are already the main protagonists of the Greek forest landscape. The Galician Natural History Society reported that the plan states that most of the territory in Galicia does not present serious erosion problems. Well, it's little more than the fifth, 21%. I think those problems of erosion imply that having today a fifth of the territory affected by Greek in its working life is tremendously serious. From In Marea we share that the tree surface occupied by conifers and forests of leafy natives must be increased to the detriment, as we have stated on numerous occasions, of the eucalyptals, who have already surpassed the area provided for in their 92 forestry plan, with only one culprit — yes, all we have to say — which are the policies of the People's Party. But for this it should be designed and implemented a plan for the progressive, but rapid elimination of eucalyptus on all lands that are of public ownership, as well as promoting its progressive elimination across the entire network of protected natural spaces in Galicia, with incentives economically attractive to and to the owners for their substitution by native leafy; and, of course, the elimination of all plantations that were made without the preconditions of permission. It also points to the Galician Natural History Society that any project or use of renewable energy sources — even if it is financed directly or indirectly from public funds — must necessarily demonstrate neutral or positive effects on biodiversity, natural spaces and socio-economic aspects. And it only considers the use of biomass for industrial thermal uses to be acceptable after an energy and greenhouse gas audit to certify a favourable balance in the consumption of fossil fuels and emissions, considering overall the collection, transport, preparation and combustion of biomass. Last summer, the Board of Auditors warned the Galician Board that it was failing its forest plan by spending much more in extinction and extinguishing fires than by ordering our mountain. So we're going to support this PSdeG motion. We consider it necessary to present this forest plan as soon as possible, and today more than ever, after hearing the intervention of the current President of the Union. We think it's time to get it out, teach it to companies, associations, open it to society to start the process of participation that must have a plan that will govern our country's future forest for the next few years. It's a process of what you've ever been, people in the People's Party, if they've been proud that it's public exposure, but we know that after that they always hide interests from behind. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. You have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u130	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my intervention by moving that, after what happened this morning, and from the announcements of the President of Galicia, I think he took them all — as our spokesperson said — a little with the changed step. Because the speech that could be made here today could be moved to which we have already proposed much more forcefully. We are going to do parliamentary processing of the Galician Forest Plan, of course we are going to give you that public information from which Mr Quiroga speaks, and I have already told you that we are not going to give the red button in this case but we are going to vote in favour of the motion. In addition, however, thirty measures are taken. I have been here for a year, like all of us, and I have been listening to the speeches of the opposition groups in the 7th Commission many times. And much of those speeches are taken up in those thirty measures. We're going to work together to implement those measures and to get the forest model that we all want for our country. A study commission is also called for to address these thirty measures, to collect all their contributions. I'd ask them to do real politics here, to work to get these measures to be the best possible. Seen, the Galician Forest Plan of 1992 was a document establishing the forest framework for forty years, until 2032. In the Law of Mount 7/2012, which the People's Party approved in the Union, it is already collected as one of the fundamental instruments for the development of forest policy this Galician Forest Plan and the plans for the management of forest resources in the districts, which today also announced the President to be developed. This forest plan is the basic tool for the design and execution of the Galician forest policy. As article 72 of the law states, the plan and its amendment — which is what we are dealing with right now — corresponds to the board of directors by decree, by proposal of the competent council and by hearing the Galician Forest Council. In addition, in your processing a public information, Mr. Quiroga, which is what you are asking for, and of course, we also support, proximally, the draft of the plan will be presented to the Forest Council, and we will have to see, within the framework of that study commission, how it is dealt with or how it is processed. I would also like to point out — and I think we all have to take this into account — that the Forest Plan, which establishes, are surface forecasts, which can be overcome by demand, in their case, estimated. It's not an executive rule, you can't talk about breaches of the Galician Forest Plan. And it's true that since 2014 the Council of Galicia has understood the need for its review. And I would point out that it was a review counting on the sector. At the Forest Council Mr. Rodríguez said there was an abstention, but it was 28 vocals who voted for the guidelines. I would also like to remind you here that in Commission 7 we took an initiative in which we were looking for the Union to follow these guidelines strictly because they seemed right to us. You abstained from this initiative. See, the guidelines say, among other things, that the unfrozen surface of the 2 million hectares that we have to value by increasing the production of pasture and forage in the mountains; that it has to increase the wooded surface occupied by conifers, in particular the pine tree of the country; that it should be maintained or reduced the wooded surface occupied by eucalyptus—signs, our parliamentary group is not in favour of the monoculture of the eucalyptus, it is in favour of the management of the mountain—that it is necessary to increase decisively the wooded surface occupied by leafy cadifolias, by promoting and implanting, especially, of chestnut, oak, wax, killar, millet, strawberry and bidue. Plant a multifunctional and sustainable mountain view with different uses. I want to remind you here some of the figures we have in our community in relation to the forest sector, because we always counter-use of the mountain and profitability. Look, we're talking about an area where there are 80,000 wood-cutting owners — with data from the year 2015, there are 11.88% of the Galician families receiving income from this concept — 300 million euros — there are a volume of cuts of 8.25 million cubic metres, more than 3,000 companies, a billing of nearly 2,000 million euros and 70,000 jobs. Of course we have to talk about profitability from the mountain! And besides, our mountain is profitable, and therefore we have to work there ordering, of course, the mountain. I — already finished — believe that the importance of the Galician Forest Plan as an instrument, which is essential in the long-term planning of our mountain, demands the maximum involvement of all those who make up the forest sector in its elaboration. In addition to this process and made known to all those involved here today in this motion, the announcement of the morning of the President of the Council of Galicia, I think it goes much further, both by the parliamentary process of the Galician Forest Plan and, of course, by the creation of the Committee on Forest Issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u131	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. For the motion's own group, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u132	Well, with the changed step, no, because the president himself has already announced since June that for the week, for the week... and we're going for San Martino. But, in any case, we are pleased that it will finally be put in place, because it is a real need, with our unhesitating concern to make continuous ends meet on the subject of participation, given the profound implications, that no one escapes from us, both social and environmental as well as economic. There are many aspects to deal with in this new forest plan, and they also have a strong multidisciplinary character, which is why a multidisciplinary and cross-sectional participation is essential to properly address this country's problem. The only way, we understand, to make a forest plan appropriate to those needs that the country demands from the environmental point of view and from the Greek society in general is to put the draft into effect, and to do so with a broad and varied participation. We must call on the Government to facilitate this participation of the sector, of those involved and interested, as we have seen in the motion and as we have repeatedly reiterated, by these implications. And you, the spokesperson for the PP, made a special fine cap in that economic character, which no one will deny. He's still known and we've made an allusion to him before. It's really a key factor and very to be taken into account, but no less important and no less key is what we're often referring to but it also sometimes gives the impression that it can be in simple slogan and announcement: that of multifunctionality and biodiversity, and ultimately the social and environmental aspects, which have so great transcendence. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Bloc, therefore, Mr Rivas, we cannot accept it, among other things, because we understand that what is proposed here in this amendment is qualitative proposals, and these qualitative proposals we understand that they should be part of the debate that is awaiting the Forest Plan, or the draft of the Forest Plan. All these things that you move here as an amendment seem interesting to us but not timely now, since now what we are talking about is to launch the plan, put it into operation and that the Government provides the appropriate channels for that participation and that this and other matters are shaped in that plan after a deep debate and contrast of ideas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u133	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. G.P. motion. of the Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the budget for the 2017-2018 Municipal Road Improvement Plan, as well as the publication of the aid corresponding to that plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u134	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u135	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings a motion that comes from the plea made by this group to the Rural Environment Adviser at the last plenary session of this Parliament in Galicia. You know perfectly well that the whole fires are inevitable. No government is responsible for the fires that occur in Galicia, but the Government is guilty of not counting a fire prevention policy that prevents fires from becoming a disaster of the dimensions that have occurred this past October. A number of reports from experts in the field have been warning us for quite a long time that climate change, coupled with rural depopulation, is two factors that favor the dimensions of the fire. Galicia has two of the most fire-sensitive ecosystems: on the one hand, a vast, impoverished, aging rural space; and on the other hand, a peri-urban space with single-family housing on the border between the city and the countryside. And in this interface between the mountain and urbanized areas, the risk to human lives and to the destruction of property is very high. So the problem of depopulation, manifested again and again, causes the abandonment of the land, which means that it increases the invasion of spontaneous vegetation with a high degree of fuel. The Galician Society of History presented, in a press release on forest fires, two maps of Europe that are really illustrative of the relationship between the demographic crisis and the fires. Thus, they point out that the center and north of the interior of Portugal, Galicia and all the Spanish northwest, among other regions, show that man's exile provokes around the fire. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Government of Galicia, the best prevention for the fires is to have a living rural world. Rural has to be alive. A live rural prevents the fires from spreading catastrophicly. A living rural has natural cortex. A living rural has the mountains in proper and valued conditions. A live rural avoids depopulation. A living rural area allows the network to make it easier to reach farms and population centres. A live rural prevents Galicia from burning with catastrophic dimensions. It is not to be welcomed that in the 21st century the material and human media of the Galician Union have not avoided the loss of homes, as well as the loss of human lives. It's not a receipt, as it was heard today morning, to speak again about the Bipartite, when you've been ruling nine years continuously. It's not a receipt that they show up in the past. [[Applause]] It is not to be accepted that they have not learned from the event and that they do not put the necessary means to prevent this catastrophe and that it happens again in Galicia, it is not to be received, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Government. In a single weekend, 50,000 hectares were burned, with 137 municipalities affected, 32 large fires, 4 dead, thousands of displaced people, hundreds of people with respiratory problems, threatened rural nuclei, dozens of affected housing, besieged urban areas, calcined natural stops, collapsed channels of communication and losses that we don't know today because they're not valued. These results are not received. You blame incendiary terrorism and a global plot organized for criminal purposes, guilty of the evidence being denied, as well as the statements of the Galician Environment Prosecutor. The explanations given today in this House by the President of the Council of Galicia place us in the face of powerlessness, the power to act in the face of the real possibility, which may exist again, that this situation repeats itself. They place us in the face of absolute vulnerability as a country, and this is not receiptable. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that another prevention policy is possible. We need to put in place a Welsh strategy against forest fires that reduces risk and minimizes damage. They have to attend to and be attentive to the numerous studies that relate, over and over again, to depopulation with fires. The Director General himself acknowledged in his high-risk statement of October 11 that since the beginning of October there had been a continuous change in weather forecast that made it possible for this fire to evolve and cause serious damage to both forest and other goods. And it concludes that this situation could have catastrophic situations. We wondered, and all Galicia wondered, why the Council did not declare the high-risk statement before. Why didn't you concentrate the means to extinguish the fires? Why didn't you use all the media? Why didn't the 125 Seaga brigade continue? Why were six extinction helicopters and two coordination helicopters not operational either? Why do they trust luck and something so uncontrollable by man's hand, how can climatelogy be, that the fires in Galicia can achieve disaster dimensions, as it has happened, and we're not free of it happening again? You've been ruling seventeen of the twenty-one years of autonomy; nine continuously, nine in recent years, nine in which we lost 89,000 people, nine in which we lost more than 13,000 people under the age of 20, nine in which the crop balance goes from less 7,000 to less than 12,000, nine in which we lost almost 34.500 people in the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, and nine in which we lost nearly 55,000 people in the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. So, this is being the softening legislating of our rurals. I repeat: the legislation on the abandonment of rural areas. How many plans have they made to fix the population? How many since they rule? Depopulation — I insist — allows land to increase untappedly, accumulating fuel that favors the emergence and spread of fires. The best forestry plan is to have a forest management policy, the best plan is to have a neighbouring mountain policy, the best plan is to have an agreed mountain policy, to have a conservation policy of natural spaces and a fire prevention policy. The government of the PP announces, with great media coverage, a population fixation plan — the last one — which has a budget allocation of EUR 231 million. And we've already told them that we would agree with the amount and agree with the objective, which is territorial cohesion and the maintenance of the population, support for business models in rural both through the use of their endogenous resources and new business environments. It also seeks to achieve a balanced development of rural economies and communities and the creation and conservation of employment. This plan has several axes, such as territorial cohesion, innovation, sustainable agriculture, competitiveness, cooperativeism and generational remittance. But we're again before it's done, before it's done... before it's done. It's a maximum and a minimum, anyway, of the People's Party. Because reality is not what they announce, but what they execute afterwards. I'm going to remind you of the implementation data for 2016: in the Rural Population Fixation Plan, 69%; modernization and diversification of real productive tissue, 44%; promotion of agricultural association and dissemination of agricultural technology, 18%; forest production management, 57%; implementation of sustainable agricultural production systems, 55%; improvement of quality in agri-food production, 66%. That is, in 2016 they left 100 million euros unexecuted. Something may have to do with the fact that these fires have reached this catastrophe. [[Applause]] And in the 2017 exercise — this year, People's Party gentlemen — the budget execution, on June 30, of Part 712A — the setting of the population in rural areas — has a 6.68% execution. We hope that at the end of this year it will be executed about 100%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u138	I'm done. Within this rural population fixation plan, the first axis is territorial cohesion. It is equipped with 72 million euros and includes, among others, municipal roads for 16 million euros. The aim is to promote the improvement of the existing road network in rural areas to facilitate accessibility to agricultural and forestry farms and farms, as well as to improve accessibility to population centres. What we are asking for in this motion — and I think it is quite reasonable — is that this counties are increased and that they reach the same budgeted count in the 2017 fiscal year, 20 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u139	Thank you. You understand, increase the game on the municipal roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u140	I'm done, thank you very much. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u141	Thank you. Thank you very much. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u142	Good afternoon. I'm a little confused because I don't know exactly what the agenda is, Mr. President. It's been said that even Mr. Puy took the phone to warn the president that the script had been changed. [[Laughter]] We don't care. On the contrary, we are glad to hear about rural areas and to be serious about rural areas, with positive proposals for rural development. We're not worried. We are glad the script has been changed. Because, of course, you've spoken to them about the rural legislation and what they're doing in practice is liquidating the rural, including catastrophes. That's how you treat rural people. But, of course, with the conception of the Counselor, we're not surprised. Rural is better to walk than to live, so said the Middle Rural Counsellor. Of course, with these concepts, transmitting these messages with this irresponsibility, what will people think? As for the fire crisis of October, he also pointed out — as the PSOE spokesperson said — the lack of management, not only of rural but in general of the management and vertebration of the territory, and the abandonment of the mountain. And, of course, the counselor on this issue also said that it wasn't a political problem, that it was a problem of public order, of public order, because if it isn't a political problem, the other counselor can go home because she has nothing to do. [[Murmurs.]] Because if it's not a political problem, if it's a problem of public order, because others are in charge. The Government of the People's Party also speaks a lot of talk about the famous incendiary plot, of incendiary terrorism, and the fact is that the Prosecutor does not see any of these terrorist plots. The only credible plot, according to the Prosecutor's Office, is the plot of the People's Party to delinquency. This plot did you believe in the Prosecutor's Office. The Prosecutor insists that the "b" box of the People's Party is overwhelmingly demonstrated, and that the PP benefited from corruption, in the first phase of Gürtel — at present — between 1999 and 2005. Well, of course we agree that there must be comprehensive policies for the rural environment and that there is no such policies. In the budgets of the year 2018 you don't see it anywhere. And besides, as the PSOE spokesperson has already said, the matches that exist — and the 2016 budget makes it clear — because they are not executed. And now it turns out that it has to do with the improvement of municipal roads in this legislation, which are called "rural," because again a budget sablazo nothing more and nothing less than 60%. The match goes down from 20 million in 2016 to 8 million in 2017. That's right, with a perfectly transparent summons agreed with the Fegamp for the distribution of public funds. Another trap, because, of course, there's the general summons for all the municipalities and then they have the conventions tailored to the letter, to certain municipalities. And here I have a bit of money to grant the gold medal of customer and partisan politics to some joint department. There are three that have made many merits: the Vice-Presidentship, Infrastructure and Living and the Environment and Urbanism. Possibly the gold medal should be for Environment and Urbanism, because it was done at the agreements signed between May and September 2017. Funny Town Councils: Baleira, The Ball, Cinlle, Sardinian-Cotobade, Vilardevós, Maceda, Baltar, San Amaro, Tordoia, The Vice...—Suspensive Points. Do you know what these municipalities have in common thanks to the conventions of, in this case, the Environment — and we could give other examples —? For they are governments of the People's Party who touched on an agreement from the Urbe Plan, the Environmental and Infrastructure Council, to improve road infrastructure, squares and public roads. In total, more than 1.2 million euros are distributed to the People's Party. Because, of course, they say: this county has this square or this road that has these characteristics, which fits perfectly with the goals of Plan Urbe; then we're going to sign an agreement to this county. Because, of course, you can't do this through a grant, because it has to be tailored to this concrete action that meets the requirements of Plan Urbe. That is, a scandalous, shameful and indecent use of the People's Party administration to benefit from the People's Party councils. That's what Plan Urbe is about. As far as the Socialist Group's proposal is concerned, we will certainly support it. We also tabled an addition amendment, which we hope will be taken into account. In any case, our vote will be favourable. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u143	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. On 28 March of this same year, the Director General for Rural Development met with the Fegamp Voting Board in order to move forward in the design and execution of the Municipal Road Improvement Framework Plan, for this year 2017 and for the next 2018, with nearly 16 million euros. The working group sought the possible consensus in setting the criteria to be followed for the allocation of these funds corresponding to each municipality, such as population, surface, degree of depopulation, aging, weight of agriculture in each municipality, etc. It was here to set the limit on the distribution of these 16 million euros of funds owning the budgets of the Union for this purpose for the biennium 2017-2018. Thus, there will be a fixed approach per municipality of EUR 15,000, to which other funds will be added according to its inhabitants, population entities, etc. The area of each municipal term, the importance of agricultural and forestry activities, demographic developments and the degree of aging will correct the total allocation that will correspond to each municipality. I announced to the Director General of Rural Development that the execution of the plan allowed last year to arrange a total of 810 kilometres of public roads in 293 municipalities. The paradox of this program arises when in last year's resolution, with a fixed amount of nearly 20 million euros — Feder and Junta funds — a total of 730 fixed roads were estimated to reach more than 1,300 kilometers. That's, many fewer miles have been executed on the planned roads -- 38% less than the projected one. And we don't know if this reduction has also been transferred to the investment executed. In Commission 7th, on Friday, June 2, 2017, the Director General of Agader came to this Parliament to answer a question about the EPIM, which was formulated by the People's Party, and you made it possible for the former Director General, Mr. Crespo, who was already a hard and complicated task. He got rid of the role developed in the previous framework plan, lying, just as the president here lied in the middle of the state of Autonomy when he announced that there would be many more roads to the Town Councils. Mr. Dubois announced the Road Improvement Framework Plan for 2017-2018 with 8 million euros for each year; that is, less than half last year. I'm going to put — I did it the other day at the commission — a practical example of a central massive municipality that has about 70 to 80 kilometers of runways, more than roads. In that municipality in 2009, with Bipartite, there was an investment of 90,000 euros. Last year, with the People's Party, an investment of €19,652 was made; a reduction of €78.17% of the funds. On a three-meter-wide road that goes to an exploration, putting 120-centimeter tubes in diameter... to collect the water, compacting between 15 and 20 centimeters of sugar, they give about a mile or so. According to official prices, over 60 euros a square meter, 20 euros a cubic meter of sugar, sewerage, transport, labour and industrial benefits, and we no longer put drainage tubes or the arches, in case we have to move the water somewhere, but that doesn't reach a mile. That's counting on the municipalities now, today, to pay them the VAT and the drafting of the project, which at the time of the Bipartite didn't happen, which was the Junta that paid everything. So your rural bet is still a fake, reduced to four propaganda measures that are fixing zero problems for those and those of us who live in it. At Marea he presented the debate in Commission 7 a non-legislative proposal in this respect. We are going to support this initiative and hope that this motion will be better fortunate than our non-legislative proposal in the committee. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u145	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Too bad we came here to talk about roads! That's a lot worse! It cost me a lot, Mrs. Rumbo, to look for the word "way" in your intervention. So I just keep saying something: I don't know if you've been careful in the debate in the morning, I don't know if you've been; but if you've been careful, didn't you like Mr. Leicega's intervention? Because you told me about fires when Mr. Leicega had already spoken. I don't understand. [[Applause]] So, as we go to responsibility, we're going to talk about paths. You two divagen, that's how it goes. We are going to continue to invest in rural areas, and infrastructure is fundamental in rural areas, so budget allocation with own funds — they are left with this data, which is very important — with own funds, not with European funds. This is very important for investing in rural areas. Infrastructures are fundamental, we all know that infrastructures are fundamental to rural access, and infrastructures are very important for access to different farms, Mr Rivas Cruz, to the farms that remain in rural areas. The farms are not completely liquidated. The farms continue to be in rural areas and we, this majority group — which for some reason will — continue to invest in rural areas for the improvement of access to farms, industries; that is, to the wealth of a prosperous rural and rural society so that we all fight, not just you. [[Applause]] So, when there's a unanimous agreement between the autonomous administration, i.e., Galician Union and Fegamp... Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, Mr. Fegamp's president, I want to believe that he's still a socialist, and he's in agreement with the investment, with the budget allocation he's making for the improvement of roads. You haven't talked about paths; therefore, you here can't teach us any lessons. Because if you had told us what the budget allocation really is and told us about ways, I could answer and tell you: Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, when you invest in what this government has invested, which has invested a government of the Galician Union in roadmaps, of infrastructures necessary for rural areas, we can listen to it and take it seriously. In the meantime, we will continue to listen to the people, listening to the rural people and, consequently, investing in the rural people. And we have to tell him something, too. When we're definitely betting on the stockholds and when we're definitely betting on the meat sector, when we're definitely betting on the transformation, that's all got a name, and that's industry. And, of course, if we want to bet on fixing population in rural areas, by fighting decisively for combating population, it is also essential to invest in infrastructures that are extremely necessary to set population in rural areas. Therefore, the investment that is being made of EUR 16 million in the budgeted infrastructures owned by the Galician Union before — i.e. before — were made with Feder funds, that is, with European funds; and now with our own funds we continue to bet decisively on the rural side, we continue to invest in rural areas. And it's not just a vocation or a rural vocation. We invest, we invest in rural, because we believe that we have to fix population and we have to fix industries, and good communication to rural people translates into wealth, and the result of wealth, that is to say, of generating jobs, we will fix population. Finally, Mr. President, I just want to tell Mr. Rodríguez Estévez that you told me about municipalities that they wanted to invest or invest in rural roads. I'm just saying one thing: you can tell Mr. Martiño Noriega, because Mr. Martiño Noriega didn't join this road map. I don't say so, Mr. Martiño Noriega, because he hasn't joined a road-fixing collaboration plan. And you come demanding us to this majority group, this group, which we invest in rural, and you, that is, your mayor, don't invest in the roads. So many cases we can't do to him. [[Murmurs.]] And to the Socialist Party — and finished, president —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u147	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u148	...I want to tell you that in this motion it's true that you haven't talked about rural roads, I'm going to repeat it again. But I ask you to speak in Vigo, in Vigo Town Hall, and to present this motion to Mr. Abel Caballero, because he didn't join in a plan of infrastructure, that is, a plan of roads to invest in Vigo rural. Vigo also has rural, Vigo also has people who are living in rural. I mean, besides giving lessons, you apply them, and then you demand the work of a group... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u150	...majority living in rural areas and living in rural areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u151	Thank you, Mr. Vega. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, I don't know very well where to start. [[Laughter]] Look, it's true that the representative of the BNG just went off a little bit... he said he was a little... well, that's it, but he finally resumed. Because the socialists and you, both the BNG and the En Marea, are ultimately convinced and if we believe — and we have also found — that the fact that measures are taken in rural areas, and also, and basically, in municipal roads, does have a lot to do with the spread of fires. You don't see it, that's why these things happen to you. They're not listening to what the experts tell them. And I urge them: listen to what the experts say about this, about the countryside, and say that while the countryside is softening, the fires spread. So, look, Mr. Daniel Vega, the state of the rural roads is fundamental to avoiding fires; it is fundamental for territorial cohesion; it helps prevent the rapid spread of fires, facilitates access by means of land conditioning, which also results in fewer fires, and facilitates access by means of extinguishing those fires. Therefore, I certainly had to see, and much, my exposition. And I insist on it even though my voice has already done so, of course, and I come not to correct it, but we insist that they listen and take it into account. [[Applause]] Look, the president of the Galician board today morning told us textually that we will leave the partisan stance behind and that we all support the initiatives presented this morning. For that reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group asks you to put aside the partisan stances and vote in favour of something that will be of benefit to rural people, which will benefit from the depopulation — that is, there is not so much depopulation in rural areas — and will benefit from avoiding the spread of the worlds. I also want to remind you of one thing. I, of course, can't invest in the board of Galicia because we haven't won yet and I'm not the president of the board yet; when I am, perhaps I can do it. But... well, maybe... well, imagine. [[Murmurs.]] But look, if I'm going to tell you that I've had municipal responsibilities as a conciliator and I can invite you to see how the rural roads are in my county, regardless of whether or not I had the help of the Galician Union, which I'm never enough, are always quite scarce. [[Applause]] So, don't you talk to me about applying policies because we can discuss that at another time and maybe it doesn't go well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway... [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, it's pretty curious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u153	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u154	From what I see, the position of the People's Party is that of always passing the knee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u155	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u156	Look, I'm going to insist on the subject. You're talking about you investing in the countryside. I'm going to tell you again that in 2016 they left 100 million euros unexecuted in rural areas and that this year as of June 30, 2017 in rural population fixation they had 6.68% executed. So I hope they value it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u157	On the amendment, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u158	Our motion is for the count to invest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u159	No, about the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u160	...be the same as in 2016. And, of course, we accept the amendment tabled by the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u162	If you want to prove a real bet on the countryside...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u163	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u164	...now they have occasion. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u165	Well reconstituted the subject, well reconstituted. Thank you. After the debate on the motions has been closed, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u166	We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Ms Luca Chao. No amendments were tabled. We vote. La Luca Chao Pérez's motion for a vote from the G.P. of En Marea, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the incidences detected at the beginning of the school year 2017-2018. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u167	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. José Antonio Quiroga Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the process of drafting the new Forest Plan of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66; abstentions, 6. [[Murmurs.]] The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u168	Finally, we voted on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. You have accepted the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the budget for the 2017-2018 Municipal Road Improvement Plan, as well as the publication of the aid corresponding to that plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. [[Murmurs.]] The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u169	Once the motions have been put to the vote, please open the doors. We are now debating the fourth item on the agenda, proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and seven other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia, in 2017, of plans for the use and management of the six natural parks of Galicia and the National Park of the Atlantic Islands
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u170	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Socialist and the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u171	Mr Trenor has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has an area of 29,574 square kilometers. In Greek territory we have a great diversity of natural means, thanks to our position, our geography, our orography, but also the territory reflects our own action, in some cases to improve, enrich what nature has given us, but in others, unfortunately not so much. We have more than 1,200 kilometers of back, the altitude varies between sea level and sea level to its maximum altitude of 2,124 meters in Pena Trevinca, not forgetting seabed. The variety of climates that provide ocean environments, mountain environments, even Mediterranean ones, and a multitude of microclimates that give rise to a multitude of ecosystems, all of them different and special, that are the result of natural evolution and how to take advantage of natural resources. The Protected Natural Space Galeg Network represents more than 12% of the total area of Galicia. It draws up the natural spaces of the autonomous community which have a special protection regime under the various autonomous, state or Community regulations, as well as international conventions. These natural spaces collect the most representative and significant ecosystems of the Greek territory: coasts and rivers, ponds, river ecosystems, greenhouses of the interior, forests and forests, etc., and the autonomic regulations governing their protection are collected in the Nature Conservation Act. Within these natural spaces stand out those who have unique elements of fauna, flora, biology and the representativeness of their ecosystems or their scientific and educational value and interest, also by the beauty of their landscapes or by their cultural or historical projection, which require special attention and make them worthy of a protection figure, which is that of natural parks. At this time in Galicia we have declared six natural parks: the Fragas do Eume, Corrubedo and Lagoas of Carregal and Vixán, in the province of Coruña; The Winterfell and the greenhouse of the Lastra and the Lower Limia and the Serra do Jurés, in the province of Ourense; and Mount Aloia, in Pontevedra. In order to facilitate a coordinated management of the spaces that make up it, as well as to contribute to its recognition and dissemination, it has been created as an integrated and unitary system of all natural parks to the Galician Natural Parks Network. It has as its main objectives to transform the natural parks of our community into a shared and coordinated management model, promote cooperation and promote common objectives, empower natural parks as a value of economic development and dynamize the local economies of its surroundings, also know the data and figures related to the management of the main areas of action on the Natural Parks Network, place the Natural Parks of Galicia brand as a reference in Spain under a global corporate identity, capitalize Galicia's wide and diverse natural heritage through the promotion of natural parks and enhance the uniqueities of each natural park to convert the Network into a green Spain icon and as natural spaces of interest in Europe. The Galician Natural Parks Network has fined coordination, among them, but also with other protected networks or spaces, especially with the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, but also with management and use and promotion and value. The Law of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity establishes the basic legal regime of conservation, sustainable use, improvement and restoration of natural heritage and its biodiversity. It provides for the development of plans for the use and management of natural parks, corresponding to their approval by the competent body of the Autonomous Community. Even so, it states that the governing plans will prevail over urban plans. The Galician Autonomy Statute takes exclusive competence to dictate additional rules for the protection of the environment and the landscape, in accordance with the Constitution. The Galician Nature Conservation Act sets out natural park planning instruments for natural resources management plans (PORNs) and management and management plans. The concept of repertoire plans provides for the development of the guidelines issued in the management plans in these documents, setting out the management plans for the administration's actions in the field of the application of natural parks. In accordance with this regulation, during this year 2017, the development of the Rector Plans has already been implemented, both of the natural parks and of the National Maritime-Terrestrial Park of the Atlantic Islands. With regard to the Master Plan for the use and management of the Natural Park of the Atlantic Islands of Galicia, it is necessary to stress that, after the start of the processing, in 2011, there were substantial changes that allowed for a thorough review of the preliminary document which was exposed to public information, and the same received during the previous process, in the process of public processing, a total of 25 rounds. In this process, at the same time, the National Parks Act is approved and, in subsequent adaptation of the National Parks Director Plan, it is indicated that the management and use master plans will be adjusted to the National Parks Network Director Plan. With these new regulations, the General Directorate of Natural Heritage has carried out the revision of the document in accordance with the new requirements. In this framework, work has been carried out to improve the zoning according to the new studies carried out in recent years, and at this time the opening document of the National Park's Master Plan for Use and Management will be submitted to public participation in general, in accordance with Law 27/2006, so that the rights of access to information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters are regulated. The purpose of this participatory process is that the document can be enriched by suggestions and observations made. With regard to plans for the use and management of natural parks, the draft Eume Fragas Rector is currently being updated and revised. With regard to the documents of use and management of the rest of the five natural parks in Galicia, it should be noted that they are currently in processing, since the Board has contracted the contract for the technical advisory service in the preparation of the documentation of these plans, giving rise to previous tasks of measurement and land verification. It is expected that during the second half of 2018 the procedures for approving the decrees of the governing plans for the use and management of the six natural parks of Galicia will be completed. This situation shows that the Union is working on a document that guarantees the conservation of Galicia's natural heritage while taking advantage of it and the economic, social and cultural development of the municipalities in which they sit and their closest surroundings. These are projects where they confuse a lot of actors, so it's necessary to respond to all the sensitivity and needs. This will be done during the drafting process of the drafts, so at that time information rounds, talks, newspapers and meetings will be started to present the content and bring the proposals closer together, as well as to recompile the considerations presented by social agents and park owners. The arrivals will be part of the document that is passed as a decree and will regulate the uses and management of natural parks. The management and use plan of each park will be an instrument that, as far as possible, must be endorsed by the greatest consensus of all sectors involved, for what is concerned is that it is a plan respected by all those who participate in one way or another in the National Park and the natural parks. In his parliamentary appearance the request to explain the objectives of the Council for this legislation, the Environment Adviser announced the development and approval of the plans for the use and management of all parks, which he agrees with in the electoral program with which the People's Party of Galicia competed for the 2016 autonomous elections. But this group wants to extend this commitment to the Greek society to the rest of the political groups, reaching a broad political agreement to promote this immediate action. In relation, ladies and gentlemen, with your amendments, our offer to reach a broad political agreement and a firm offer, and we understand that some of the points of your amendments can be incorporated into your initiative, so at the end of this exhibition we will try to approach positions and advance towards the transaction of a joint initiative among all groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u173	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u174	The truth, Mr Trenor, is that it has touched on you to defend here a bold, risky proposal, because this initiative, since the BNG, of course we think it highlights the failure, the delay, the inoperation, the inefficiencies, the lack of commitment and the poor sensitivity of the People's Party in the field of protected natural spaces. If not, it is not explained that at this point, after so many years of passing the law — six years — we are still talking about the fact that these plans are not approved; that is to say, it highlights the picture of failure and delay and, in addition, puts the focus on one of the areas most abused by the governments of the People's Party. First, because we have an antiquated legislation, the 2001 nature conservation legislation. Sixteen years have passed and now you're announcing a new law that they're about to bring in 2016 and it's not here yet. And the Nature Network Management Plan is 2014 when we have a Habitat Directive 1992 establishing a six-year deadline for the approval of the management plans for places of Community interest, and nothing has been seen. Another element that highlights the failure: the lack of development of natural spaces protected by the Natura 2000 Network, which, however, the European Union itself recognises as an insufficient instrument for the protection of biodiversity; but we have less than 12% of the Greek territory protected by these figures. We are in the last position in the state; the next community, Asturias, is about 19%; let's not say the Valencian Community, Madrid or Canary Islands, who walk over or around 40%. And in addition, in this matter, you systematically violate your promises, your commitments, because by 2012 they announced they were going to increase protected spaces to a modest 14% -- nothing at all. Another element that highlights this failure is the severe deterioration of landscape and heritage. And we don't say it, BNG doesn't say it, is that it says the Plan Director of Tourism of the Galician Union, which recognises as one of the main threats to tourism the serious deterioration of landscape and heritage. I could put thousands of examples, just take a ride around the country, but the most scandalous perhaps is that eucalyptus plantation nothing more and nothing less than in the Irimia pedregal, which should be a sanctuary of nature, a real symbol, and it turns out that it is planted also of eucalyptus. And that's why the European Union gave you a warning about the poor management of protected spaces and the delay in the adoption of management plans. Indeed, plans for use and management of which we have only two natural parks, Mount Aloia and Lower Limia-Xurés, with obsolete plans and updates pending. The case of the Cyastic Park, the Atlantic Islands Park, is -- you said so too -- a scandal: fourteen years of processing the Rector Plan, we have taken 28 drafts and have not just approved it, and the August 20 crisis has shown, precisely, everything that has not been done about a good management of this natural space, with the negative impacts that this has on the ecosystem and also on the image of this space when it is aspired to a declaration of humanity's heritage. The fires crisis in October also highlighted the condition of the natural spaces and the absence of preventive measures, but of course, as the advisor was absent... and I don't know if she's almost better away, because with her theories about the spread of fire in the oak trees or in the eucalyptals because she's almost gone. Finally, that you have just presented here the report, the finding of failure, the balance of failure, the failure to comply with the deadlines for approval of the repertoire plans, because no natural park has been approved since 2002, because we are in the queue truck, we are at the state's last position in terms of protected spaces and biodiversity, for neglect of aggression. For example, the Galician Natural History Society reported aggression in 35 spaces with negative impacts, which investigates the European Union. And these failures, this inefficiencies and this incompetence you replace with advertisements towards the gallery and propaganda, because you can't call it otherwise, for example, the biosphere reserves or that Natural Space Network that in practice is a website, it's a website and a little more. That is why we have tabled a series of amendments to establish a deadline not only for drafting, but for the approval of the Rector Plans, to submit the aforementioned plans to a broad process of participation in which all sectors and related institutions intervene, to initiate the procedures for the extension of the territory protected by the Natura Network, to reach at least 20% of the territory in 2020, and also to initiate the procedures for the declaration as natural parks both of Mount Pindo and of the Ancares and the Courel and Pena Trevinca, and also a point which refers to the rejection of the Board of Galicia for its failure to comply with all these measures for the protection and management of natural parks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u175	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u176	Thank you, President. This is a subject that really arouses a lot of interest, as far as the House is concerned. It's true that we have a national park, we have six natural parks, it's okay from time to time to know what they're called, especially because the vast majority of the Greeks don't know their existence. The national park is made up of islands and the natural parks are the Fragas do Eume, the corrubedo-lagoas complex of Carregal and Vixán, Mount Aloia, the Lower Limia, the Xurés saw, The Winterfell and the Plaster's saw. The natural park had agreed on a law of the year 2002, which would have an obligation to have a Rector plan; 2002, had spent more than fifteen years, we continued to wait for this plan. There was a Rural Media Advisor in 2011, who went out in the media in July saying he was ready, that before the end of that year 2011 he was going to be approved, there were only a couple of reports left, one of them the report of the Patronate of the National Park itself, and he would be ready before the end of 2011. So we're -- we're still about to finish -- in 2017, we're still the same. The terrestrial value and marine value, above all, of the national park, continue to wait for that intended effectiveness and efficiency of what you tell us every time you leave here. And the only natural parks that were held by the People's Party Councillor, the Counsellor who is not, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, was about a year or so, within the General Directorate of Conservation of Nature, two services: one for the northern and other natural parks in the southern area, which we still do not know why they were created or for what they served or for what they served. Basically, when you see what happened in the Jurés Park, a natural park, you see that this coordination, which was going to be tremendous through that southern part of Galicia, must not work too well when you burned down the Jurés Park, because it didn't only burned down on October 15, it had been burning since September, and so you see that coordination didn't exist; I don't know who would be the coordinator, but, in addition to stopping the Director General of the Rural Environment, it would also be good to cease this coordinator of the southern coordinating zone of the natural parks, because it was seen that he didn't know that he was burning up the Jurés Park. Today you come with this non-law proposition. Looks like they found the gunpowder. It's not bad, it's fine, but it's absolutely insufficient. In the past, we have taken several initiatives from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to get you to approve the management plans — by the way, they always voted against — and it would not be more than that, before the wave of fires that devastated the protected areas, not only the Jurés' natural park, but also the Ancares — more than 23% of the land that burned down was in protected areas; it is not nonsense, it is not a baladi issue — we had already had these plans that were guiding, at least to be activated and that the fire wave over the protected areas was minimized if possible. In one of his appearances, the Environmental Adviser was betting on the conservation of natural parks and the national park compatible with its tourist enjoyment, he was betting on the idea of empowering them to be a tourist destination. For us it's unacceptable. I don't know if the compatibility of the touristic enjoyment means what happened on the Cyes Islands this summer. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we do not believe that the important thing is that they are tourist destinations, but that they are developed, that they are taken advantage of as economic development elements for the places where they are, and especially for those who are inhabited, for the economic development of their inhabitants, and it would not be even more likely to provide certain compensations for the loss of rights that result from the management of the Natura Network. And we also understand that, as almost no one in Galicia knows, yes it is the national park, few would at best include the island of Cortega within the national park, because few people know, few boys and girls, except those in the area, know where it is, I'd say they would hardly know where the four archipelagos are, because it's good to know what they're called, and it's good to know that they exist. It would be essential for us to be an epicenter of an environmental education plan of a school nature. That's why we proposed a replacement amendment. We believe this initiative is not bad, it is too late, and it is also insufficient. We ask you this year to open up a phase of hearing sufficient to guarantee the principle of transparency, to compare the advisor with his explanation of these repertoire plans — after waiting fifteen years, it gives us six months or six months less to wait — and that, in addition, to all of them, you are to banish yourself from being tourist destinations. Take advantage of us as elements of economic development for the places where they are, also enable them to be learned by the school boys and girls in Galicia, and specifically for the National Plan that has a funding plan in its memory, a special funding plan according to the funding of the Natura 2000 Network for the conservation of its habitats...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u178	...—now finished, President—and also for possible compensation to the owners who live in areas that are affected by the Natura Network, and in this case by the National Plan, as compensation for the loss of the rights of their inhabitants, which we know causes problems in the areas where they are. For our own sake, that's all. We hope they'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u180	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We have tabled a series of amendments to this LNP that brings today the People's Party. We don't think it's serious to bring a PNL from an ad that has already made the Government of the Union. We have passed from the GNP of lies, the GNP that have no content, that have no budgetary commitment, that have no temporary commitment, declarations of generic intentions that do not go to concrete, to bring the GNP in which they make government voices, because this, as you well say, has already been announced by the Government itself and therefore what the Government has to do is do. We don't understand why you bring her here, just that you don't trust the word of the People's Party Government, and that's why they bring this NNP, to see if we're putting pressure on all groups to comply with your word. It would also be something that would get inside the logic if we did it from the opposition, but it doesn't make any sense that the People's Party would bring it in. It's also very striking that you, in your explanatory statement, celebrate a party, that the advisor announced the elaboration and testing of the repertoire plans for the use and management of all parks, which agrees with the definition in the electoral program with which the People's Party presents itself to the autonomous elections. We understand that you are surprised that the Government of the People's Party is fulfilling its program, but it's rather curious that they put it on the PNL; it's something that usually doesn't happen and I understand that that's why they want to highlight it. But, in addition to what the Government has already announced, in addition to you taking it on the program, legislation requires these repertoire plans to be made. So we don't understand how you dare bring this GNP here, too, when it's the government's obligation to make these repertoire plans. Law 9/2001, on the conservation of nature, and Law 42/2007 on natural heritage and biodiversity, contain the plans for the management of natural resources — the PORNs — and the guidelines for use and management — the PRUSS —. By legislation, to comply with the law, the Government has to develop these plans, and we don't have to decide on it here. And Law 30/2014 of 3 December 2014 of national parks, which enters into force on 5 December 2014, in the second transitional provision, approves the Master Plan for the use and management of declared national parks, which obliges the competent administration to approve the principal plans within three years. They have a month to comply with the law with the Atlantic Islands Park. What the Government of Galicia has to do is comply with the law. Already in 2009 the DOG announced the approval of the Rector Plan of Mount Aloia. On February 4, 2015, the DOG decided to extend the deadline for public participation of the Eume Fragrance Rector Plan. On July 26, 2011, he agreed to submit to the public the park of the Atlantic Islands. And, as you have already said, in 2016 the Galician Natural Park Network was created, which aims to coordinate and regulate the uses and management of the parks themselves. That's why we don't think it's any serious that you bring this PNL here. What the Government has to do is execute the plans of use, the repertoire plans that they already have on public projects and submit to the public what they don't have and give them forward and do them. It doesn't make any sense. To make sense of this debate, so that this House can serve something, the opposition groups bring in a number of amendments, which we hope they can accept some so we can get something more clean. We present several. One of them, expand the network of natural parks. As some BNG spokesman has said before me, Galicia is in line as far as protected natural spaces are concerned. I suppose we all understand that there is no reason for Galicia to be so under the middle of the state, because we understand that we have spaces with very high natural value and that we should have much more protected space, apart from the social and economic importance of our environment. So we tabled an amendment in that direction, which we hope will be accepted. We make the proposal of Anchores-Courel, Mount Pindo, cannons of Sil, Bibei, expansion of the winter — where the most valuable areas are not within the park — and Pena Trevinca. We assume they have no reason to oppose these spaces entering the Natural Parks Network. We introduced another amendment to eliminate exotic species. In most parks there are lots of exotic species. Today at least they've already made a recognition that the eucalyptus and the pine have some fire problems, they also have affections with water resources consumption, drought and biodiversity destruction, and therefore they have to be eliminated. And it's over, I'm out of time. Progressively broadening the personnel involved in conservation, which have cut staff all these years, and to go from speech to reality requires resources, and above all human resources; without resources there is no conservation possible. That the maintenance work they're doing fits the competences of each agent, because, with this loss of staff, they're doing things that don't suit them. To ban and regulate activities where there is a risk of wildlife and flora. You can't afford to keep running in Ons, passing through areas where protected species live in breeding times. Or you can no longer repeat the shame of the Government of the Union of Galicia celebrating the Environment Day in the Corrubedo Nature Park. It was a shame that the Government of Galician Union celebrates Environment Day by assaulting a natural space, which had no consequence, which should have had it, and that certainly cannot be reversed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u182	And finally, the last amendment is to make specific plans for the fight against fire in these spaces. The spokesman for the Socialist Party commented what happened in the Jurés park, it wasn't the only one, and therefore we understand that this must be corrected. They pick up our amendments and press their government colleagues to comply with the law. Nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u183	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u184	Like a joke, today's a great day, because I think it's the first time I agree with Mr. Cal. The People's Party is true that it has proposals and they often agree with legality; it's more, they make us comply with the law, and always, not only those that capriciously seem to us to be fair. I mean, we understand that we have to abide by the law, we have to enforce it and also since the government's action. Mr Bará, as far as the first point of his amendment was concerned, "to commit within a maximum of twelve months the elaboration and approval of the repertoire plans," we could incorporate that point into the proposed transaction. "Submiting the above-mentioned plans to a broad process of participation according to the councils, ecological associations and local communities of each territorial area," we could also incorporate this into the initiative, since in the process of drawing up, processing and approving future Rector plans there are several participatory processes in which stakeholders and the general public can make the relevant observations, suggestions and allegations. As for "initiating the procedures for extending the territory protected by the Natura Network to a minimum of 20% by 2020", we agree to extend the protected territory. What happens is that we don't think that the enlargement of the Natura Network is done according to an objective percentage that we put, but based on the natural values of the territory and the presence of habitats and species, which are also clearly determined in Annex 1 to the European Directive regulating the Natura 2000 Network. In any case, making comparisons with diametrically different territories to ours because it's not very logical either. I mean, compare our territory with what Valencia can have, when the distribution of population and habitats and ecosystems have absolutely nothing to do with, because it also configures that protected spaces are different in different ways. That's why we wouldn't share that point. "Initiate procedures for the declaration of various natural parks"? You're proposing some, in Marea you're also making another proposal — it coincides in one part, somewhere else doesn't match — we understand that, first, we should agree between ourselves to know that other parks could start. And then I understand that this, in addition, deserves a deeper reflection and that it takes us a little more than the time we have to talk about it. On point 2, concerning the rejection of the Government, you will understand that we do not introduce it and that we do not support it. As for the amendments of the Socialist Party, we seek a friendly compatibility with public use, and our main goal is to achieve the development of sustainable tourism, which is called "sense tourism." And the promotion of natural spaces takes place in that sense. Natural parks have never been promoted as large tourist destinations, but as singular spaces that can be visited without prejudice to the fair balance between development and conservation. As far as the Environmental Education Plan is concerned, we can incorporate its initiative. We must remind you — and I have already reminded you of the initiative that you have led to the commission — that the Council has for some time developed several lines of action that include an Environmental Education Plan, having as an essential engine its park network and as an inspiration to the Greek Environmental Education Strategy. With regard to the financing plan, the Rector plans already take account of the financing needs according to the protection figures, and the possible compensations are already in place. There is an order of aid from the autonomous National Parks agency for the concessionaires and owners of the National Maritime Park.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u186	In relation to the amendments by En Marea, "to develop new plans specific to the fight against fire in protected spaces," if you agree, we could incorporate it into the initial initiative. The Rector Plans, which are under development, will draw up specific plans to coordinate actions in the case of fires. In any case, we could agree that it was expressly reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u187	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. It'll bring us in if there's a transaction. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and six other Members, on the momentum of the Galician Union in the development of a Galician rehabilitation law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u188	There are amendments by the Socialist parliamentary groups, by En Marea and by the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u189	To formulate the non-law proposition has the word Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Galicia has numerous rural nuclei and urban areas with great historical or heritage value that are uninhabited or damaged. In order to dignify the landscape built and enhance traditional architecture and also in order to generate economic activity and development, the Greek Government wants to promote the recovery of these damaged areas so that they function as centres of economic, social or cultural activity. Last May, the President of the Board and on the second day of this month, the Infrastructure and Living Adviser in Commission 3rd, during the presentation of the Council's budgets, announced that they were working on Galicia's First Rehabilitation, Regeneration and Urban Renewal Act, a legal tool that will facilitate and enhance the recovery of the building and make it possible for Galicia to continue to maintain its own identity. They indicated as a primary goal to improve the living conditions of residents, to recover urban and rural areas from our community that are in a state of deterioration and to encourage the culture of rehabilitation. For from the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that this law must include, among other things, the promotion of the culture of rehabilitation; that is, a owner or owner of a building — and the rest of citizenship — feel the need and value the profitability of recovering the already built. For this, it is essential to reduce barriers that currently hinder rehabilitation and urban regeneration: legislative, administrative and management barriers, property acquisition, housing, social, demographic and, of course, financial. Legislative barriers. Home, there is currently no specific legal framework for rehabilitation in the Autonomous Community. Regular legislation is dispersed and not encouraging rehabilitation; it requires a clear legal framework that serves as a guide and reference. Administrative and management standards. Getting licenses right now — licenses, permits or authorizations — to rehabilitate an building, especially if it's in a core or in a historical shell, is a real hate. Honestly, they discourage individuals and companies from embarking on rehabilitation processes. That's the reality. Maybe I'll talk to them because I'm from Lugo and a license there, the normal thing is that it takes at least a year. But it is a case that is unfortunately being given in other cities and places. So we have to try to get a law that turned this situation around. More often, it's very common to find people -- I tell them from my experience how they look -- or people who have just rehabilitated a building in the historical building, and when they're finished, they see a building that's pretty close, they congratulate them and they say, "Yes, but if it's today, I don't start." That is a reality, and that is an obligation on us as Members when we present here the new Rehabilitation Act, that Act of rehabilitation and urban regeneration, trying among all of us to make the best law possible so that this will never happen again. People say, "Yes, it's a pleasure, and if I came back, I'd start again." We have to change and turn that trend around, and that's a reality we need, because at this moment it often takes longer to get the necessary permissions and licenses than to do the works, and that can't be. And I'm not blaming anyone, it's the system we've got right now and that's been coming for years. You need a law that regulates this situation and clears the steps and marks the right guidelines. Themes of habitability, barriers of habitability. It is common in historical helmets that there are low-sized buildings or with different degrees of level of protection that do not meet the standards of living. So it is necessary to seek — even though there are flexible living standards and if we are trying to find meeting points — a balance between the level of protection and the level of housing in order to carry out these rehabilitations. Social. It's a reality that there are many historical helmets or nuclei that are at the moment, apart from architecturally deteriorated, also from the social point of view; that is, they are marginal neighborhoods where there are practically no inhabitants or are semi-inhabited, and therefore they need an intervention I would say that from the social, economic and urban point of view and with appropriate management models to recover not only the buildings but also the neighborhood and the life of that neighborhood or that area. Financial measures? Of course, because all of this requires important financial measures. And rehabilitation is nothing new and I'm not going to say anything new, which is a situation in which to rehabilitate a building comes out in many cases twice as expensive as making a new house, not the same, but twice or even more. And if we're talking about historical helmets where streets are narrow, there's difficult access and there's no place for shelters and complications on all sides; if, moreover, we have to do archaeological excavations — in case of Lugo, I say it again, but there are archaeological excavations in the Coruña and in other nuclei alike -- that is, we're talking about a very costly process not only in time — that goes on for years and years — but economically for the owners of these buildings. It is therefore very difficult to carry out these rehabilitations, to bore them before they begin, and we have an obligation, as Members and Members responsible for legislating, to draw up a rule that facilitates — of course, respecting the heritage — these interventions. That is why there is a need for economic support for administrations in this case too, taking all these situations into account. I'm referring to the situation of historical helmets, whether excavations are necessary, etc., etc., because all of these expenses are currently borne by the rehabilitation agencies or persons. And if those archaeological remains are public, I think you should participate and collaborate in some way, look for ways to support these excavations. We must bear in mind that the bet on rehabilitation is a clear fact and it is a bet on which the Administration will always win every time it bets on it — and I don't like bets, I want it to be clear — but we must bear in mind that for every million euros that an administration puts in aid to individuals for rehabilitation this usually leads to an investment that is multiplied by at least three. I mean, we'd be talking, with 1 million, with a minimum investment of about 3 million euros, that we'd be generating around 200 jobs; we'd be generating an impact again on the different administrations — councils, state administration and also autonomy — because practically around the same million euros that you're contributing. Because we don't forget that there are licenses, social security, IVE, IBI, etc., and even the income of the workers who are going to have a salary are working there. So I think it's a money that would be very well invested, worth it, and there we must work together. Of course, the aim of this initiative is that all groups made contributions. I'll talk after the various amendments. But if I wish, before time runs out, to thank the understanding of the spirit of this initiative by Ms. Maria Luisa Pierres, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who makes important contributions, that I am convinced that many of them are already planned and contemplated in the draft of the law that the Government has, but not that is why they are less important; that is to say, of course invite her to follow that line of participation and bring out issues to solve the problems and really give solutions to rehabilitation in our country. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u191	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u192	Well, Mr. Castineira, I still don't get out of my wonder, because it turns out they're bringing us here a proposal to support the adoption and elaboration of a law that's been announced for over a year now. It's a little weird about this, isn't it? Because, of course, the truth is that a government and a specialist advisor in making ads and then also in failing to do so. Look, Mr. Feijóo's announcement in the investment speech -- over a year ago, eh! -- "In this legislation we'll approve the Welsh rehabilitation strategy." By the way, if you've forgotten them, let's remind you: it would be all right to have a Welsh rehabilitation strategy. He also announced the Law of Rehabilitation and Improvement of Historical Helmets, because this law is going to be called, it's going to change its name, sometimes it's Law of Historical Helmets, sometimes it's Law of Rehabilitation. And also a rehabilitation plan and put value to the most prominent heritage elements of the Jacobean route; we're also waiting for this plan to be presented to us. Second. The councillor, in his various parliamentary appearances, announced the Law on the Rehabilitation of Historical Helmets and also mentioned that they were working in coordination between the Territorial and Living Planning Councils and the General Directorate for Cultural Heritage of the Education and Culture Council. As bad as they're working co-ordinately, because you really talked about there being a lot of delays in the processing of licenses, especially in historical helmets, and you know what the main reason for this delay is. Because, of course, if the historical helmet has a special plan, a Peprica for example, because usually the processing of licenses is regulated and is clear; the problem is when this case is not given; and there you know what is the cause of this that you called hate, that there is a monumental blockade: the reports of Heritage, the reports of Heritage, that they don't do, because everything goes through Heritage and they have little personal and eternality in reports. Look, there's a collapse, an absolute collapse, a paralysis that has to do with the attributes of the General Heritage Directorate. Third, Mr. Feijóo on May 5, says, "Half the Government is working on the law." See if they apply, because if half of the government is working on the law, it could almost be done. Last July: The First Rehabilitation Act will arrive at Parliament in September. After listening to you, I don't know if September 2017, September 2018; I think it'll be September 2018. So, of course, they announce that the law will come to Parliament in September and November, they ask us to... what's going on? What has not just come out, that they need the support of parliamentary groups? Let's see, therefore, if they're clear. So, we're at a tired pace, a slow, paralysing pace, at the Council and at the IGVS, and that's evident in housing policies, especially in rehabilitation policies, of those that are so presuming. They're failing the Housing Plan, and there's a general delay in everything that has to do with processing and actions related to rehabilitation, including low budget execution. Because, of course, in 2016, in promotion, rehabilitation and quality of housing, they left without running, without spending, more than 11 million euros. If you have such a commitment to the rehabilitation policy, how do you not execute the budget splits? This year, on September 30, they're at a runlevel of 22%. So they're not applying much to housing policies. More announcements. Objectives of law enforcement rehabilitation, Rexurbe Program, 500 buildings, 1,500 housings, 300 locations; this with direct government purchasing actions through the IGVS. We don't see these policies anywhere. Mr. Feijóo in the electoral campaign announced the rehabilitation of 10,000 homes in historic rural helmets. We don't see these performances either. The Italian Housing Plan 2015-2020. Look, this plan, which has a set of regulations, didn't even include a specific rehabilitation legislation. So, I don't know, I'd deserve an update, an update on this plan on this and other issues. For example, there are indicators of evaluation, follow-up and compliance with the plan, because it does not do anything at all. And to see if they give light to that Vivenda Observatory -- from which they hired a private company to produce it -- which should serve for this. Do you know what the People's Party rehabilitation policy model is? It's the Betanzos model. Model Betanzos: they buy nine buildings in 2011 and 2017, that is, six years later, they approve, they bid the works of three of these buildings. At this rate, these nine buildings will just be rehabilitated in 2029, if they follow this rate of six years for three buildings. We, from the BNG, offer them modestly to our experience, contrasted and multi-primed. We can put them the Allariz model, if they want, for small towns in the interior, which is not only rehabilitation of buildings, heritage, historical centers. The Pontevedra model, for cities, is also worth us; multi-primary, among them with the Galego Prize of Culture, for example, the National Prize of Culture — before it was national prizes. That, in addition, they have an integral vision. They're not just about rehabilitation, they're talking about urban dynamization, urban regeneration, public space recovery, economic and social dynamization of urban spaces and historic centers. But, of course, it's done with policies that bet on the values and the heritage that cities have, not on large commercial macrocentres in the extra-radio, which they do is weaken and end with local trade, or with these urbanizations on the urban outskirts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u194	Look, the clearest example of the failure of the policies of the People's Party is something that they demand very much: the program of empty housing; this has nothing to do with rehabilitation, but I can't go through without saying it. You have announced the bomb and plate this plan, used it as a weapon, as a political aerial against municipal governments, and it turns out that it is an absolute failure; they are not able to give a single balance of success of this program. So we, of course, offer them, through the amendments, to improve the text of this agreement, not to say the obvious: that the Government is already making a law, but to really put something that makes sense and that serves to improve and advance in rehabilitation policies. We hope you will accept our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u195	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u196	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. It goes on to see that this parliamentary group considers this initiative positive and necessary always and when it is properly directed and not as a tool to release services or administrations to load others. And thanks to the pyropo, if you can understand yourself as a pyropo, Mr. Castineira, but in order to be able to think accordingly, it would be interesting to know that draft more than to push empty PNL of content. [[Applause]] This parliamentary group is particularly interested in what this law can provide flexibility in policy interpretations and flexibility in the processing of licences. Both questions come in response to demands that this same group has expressed in this House to its own advisor. The lack of flexibility in the interpretation of regulations, plans for the management of municipalities, special plans for protected buildings or rehabilitation areas has caused the disinterest — you said — of promoters and owners to cope with rehabilitation projects, which is particularly serious given the years of crisis as we live. So we'll be vigilant so that it's a law that gets the improvement of this circumstance, as well as that of agileization. The high average processing times have its root cause in the need for several reports, especially those of the Joint Heritage, reports that go and come from one institution to another, dilating over time the communications and responses or demands of more documentation. This, as you will surely understand, does not favor the recovery of the construction sector or the conservation of historical helmets or the entrepreneurial activity. Within the amendment that we are presenting to you today, we have indeed included a number of basic minimum issues that we believe must be collected in this law and focused on simplification and processing. We request that the municipalities of greater autonomy be given in the processing of licences, valuing, according to the case, their ability to report directly those licences without the need for prior reports of Heritage. As necessary control tools, we also understand that it is necessary to launch the assessment reports of buildings in all the municipalities of Galicia for the oldest buildings, to know the state of conservation of buildings, and, on the other hand, to promote the catalogues of protection in the municipalities that do not yet count on it, as well as to homogenize existing ones. It is also necessary to take steps so that the Administration can support those citizens who, having their housing in a multi-family building, by inaction, lack of agreement by their community or difficulties inherent in the protection of the building, cannot ensure accessibility to their homes. We believe that, since this circumstance is condemning many Greeks and Greeks with some kind of disability, living locked up in their homes or having to leave them, it is necessary for the Administration to activate the tools needed to solve this kind of plight. This is similar to the necessary flexibility in the minimum functional and dimensional housing criteria. It is true that there is exceptionalness in the fulfilment of the homes to be rehabilitated, which was already marked by Decree 29/2010, but it is also true that it is a slow and unclear process and that it disincentives to work or invest to those who seek to maintain or rehabilitate a building. Many of them are the Greeks and the Greeks who demand today's housing, adapted to today's conveniences and with a contemporary which often, not to say almost always, deny their plans or plans for protection. They understand this demand. Cities evolve and needs change. Let's not deny a new architecture that fits and lives with the pre-existing, without aggression; and in this verb, without assaulting or distorting the values of architectures and architectural sets that surround them. See examples of architecture awarded in recent years in the calls for COAG awards, Juana de Vega or Gomez Román. Contemporary living in historical helmets such as the Chao House, in Corcubion, an example of perfect coexistence between the new and the old; the Chipperfield House, in Corrubedo; or the old one, but not by old less vigent, example of the Museum of Sacred Art in Coruña, by Manuel Gallego Jorreto; architectures that today would not have been carried out according to which towns, with which plans or with which special plans we found ourselves. So I insist that you work for a law that aspires to be that perfect balance between the value of the built heritage but without giving up the contemporary architecture. For all this work, to articulate this law properly, we understand that it is essential to have the participation of professional schools, sectors related to rehabilitation and, of course, with Fegamp. They count on everyone and thus get a good law of rehabilitation and not a law that, for no use, must be promptly rehabilitated. And by the way, considering that it will be the municipalities that are expected to see their role and functions increased, they are committed to supporting them economically and equip them with the necessary means and personnel to be able to assume all these new competences. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u198	It is interesting that this initiative, as they have already said, of a bill that will be presented. I don't know, I imagine, that here, even though some of the Members of the People's Party are going to go crazy and vote against, they're going to bring us this bill the same; therefore, it's almost idle. Sometimes we have been denied initiatives to say that we were already doing so by the Government of the Union! —"The draft is already done", "it's only to be brought." So, we can talk without pressure, that here we are going to have to discuss a law of rehabilitation in Galicia if or yes, we approve this GNP or not, we approve it as we approve it. It's a day of purpose for amendment. Anyone would say today is the day when the People's Party will change the main political lines of its Government 180 degrees. In the morning, of these thirty measures that Mr Feijóo announced, 80% — counted — are systematic non-compliances since 1992 of the Galician Forest Plan or of the 2006 expert dictation. Mr Feijóo's amendment proposal, which, in his view, all works well, but we have to implement thirty measures of which twenty-four have not complied at all since 1992; a forest plan approved by you. But well, that's the way it is. And now they also come with the purpose of amending the rehabilitation policy, because Mr. Castineira's will is always very good, but he doesn't deserve to present a GNP to bring here a bill that will be brought either by itself or by itself. The intentions were very good; the precedents of his government, very bad, very bad. I mean, during all these years there was not only the level of execution -- as Mr Bará said -- ridiculously, the queue of all rehabilitation programs; it was not legislated to prioritize rehabilitation, regeneration or urban renewal, quite the contrary. The model you've been betting on is radically different from the one you're betting on for rehabilitation and regeneration. Look, we were betting on rehabilitation, regeneration and renewal. What we said in the debate on the adoption of the Galician Land Law of 2016: "The facilities for reclassifying and reclassifying soil...". 'Sorry, I just lost the line.' We said from the Land Law that the facilities that were given to reclassify soil and reclassify it were against the conservation of the built heritage. It's obvious. If the Law on Soil is based on expansion, recalibration, expansion of the soil urbanizes, easy to reclassify, there is no incentive to retain what is inside the cities already built. So, the Law of the soil was completely contrary to prioritising rehabilitation and regeneration and urban renewal. We also said in the debate of the Land Law that in that law there was no specific chapter for urban rehabilitation and regeneration; we said there. We said you were against European legislation, but you were against the state rules of the People's Party. There's a basic state law on rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal in June 2013. More than four years ago, that basic legislation and it took you four years to realize that a rehabilitation law is necessary, a rehabilitation law that is incomplete for us; that's why we tabled an amendment. It's not just housing rehabilitation, it's urban regeneration and renewal, because, as you said in the intervention -- and it listed a number of failures of successive People's Party governments -- it's a much more complex issue than architecturally rehabilitating a space. It's a question that has to do with the abandonment of rural areas, the loss of population, the aging of the population, the lack of economic alternatives. Because it's the reverse: it's not rehabilitation that's going to bring economic activity; it's economic activity, people's fixation, which will make it easier to rehabilitate, among other things. More than simplification—that if, as far as possible, who will be against simplification?—, what has so far been a legal void, legal void that you, after so many years, have not filled; i.e., there is no law, there is no regulation in the Land Law for rehabilitation and regeneration and there is a Law of soil inconsistent with this objective. Just as the State Rehabilitation Act modified certain aspects of the Land Law, we hope that it can also modify certain issues that go contrary to the Land Law. As for the precedents, to tell you -- we also pretended in our amendment, I wanted to talk about it -- that this is not just about autonomous competences; the councils also have a lot of competences. And for us the drafting of laws, as has already been demonstrated — it is demonstrated by the practice of the People's Party governments — is not enough. We must have the will and provide the resources necessary to carry them out. And, therefore, budget allocation for the municipalities is essential to carry out these policies; budget allocation in which you have failed to meet serious deficiencies. This year, in the budgets this year, as part of the promotion of rehabilitation and quality of housing, agreements and grants for municipalities come down, and this cannot happen by adopting a law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration. The same thing that shouldn't happen, and you said: you multiply the return and you multiply it by two what you invest in rehabilitation. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u200	...but you, in the 2013-2016 State Housing Plan, in that convention that they approved at the end of 2014—see what priority the Board had for rehabilitation!—, do not devote a weight to rehabilitation programs, nor a weight. They look at the table of the agreement they have with the state and they don't devote a weight. If they have so much return, why haven't they invested these years in rehabilitation and regeneration? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u201	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u202	Mrs. Pierres, thank you. Thank you for your contributions and I understand that, as Members, that is the way you should work. Others prefer to criticize rather than make contributions. They had a great opportunity to say what they want, to demonstrate how wonderful Pontevedra is, unfortunately for the Pontevedras and the Pontevedras, the most unemployed city in Galicia. That's the economic activity you generated in Pontevedra. But you had a chance, Mr Bará, with this initiative and said, "I don't like this!"; taking advantage of that Pontevedra has no urban transport, he took the first boat that went out the river, but the boat was not the one of the Rehabilitation Law, it was another. You see, you in the wrong amendment, what you do is you amend the budgets of 2018 and another at the level of execution. What does the future Law on Rehabilitation have to do with the level of execution or with a housing plan, with the increase in the budget for the housing plan? Home! In addition, it would be better to start working towards the future, because I don't know if you know that the state is preparing the 2018-2021 Housing Plan. I mean, I guess it'd be better to think about the future than in a plan that'll be in the past. But, with all this, there's the first and the second, where we can -- and I offer them the possibility -- to compromise, because maybe you can do something, always holding your hand to make that law, when it comes up, as best you can. And this was an opportunity to bring ideas to all groups. The Socialist Party, through Mrs. Pierres, took advantage of it; others preferred the opposite. Mr. Sánchez, look at you: tell me...! Sure, it's another one. You came here and didn't like Mr. Villares' performance in the morning and came to correct him too, just like Mrs. Rumbo. Well, you did the same thing, you took the same course and plun; I'm going there, I don't like it. Then tell Mr. Villares when he comes. As I said, he lost the opportunity to make proposals. You say: the Law of the soil, expansive. You just didn't know what the Land Law says. The law of the soil that allows is, precisely, to recover all kinds of buildings, whether or not they are even in the rural area, changes of use in order to recover them; and that I don't know if you know it says it to the Law of the soil. So, I think... Home!, don't argue with me because it's so, it's there, there's no more reading it, transitional provision third and article 40; study it and you'll see how it goes. [[Murmurs.]] So we don't agree much less. The municipalities, indeed, have a lot to say, of course they have to say, and look at that of the Crown, what was being done and what ceased to do; look, because the board is the same. But there are administrations that, if they license soon, municipal administrations, culture, at least it takes a month, sometimes it lasts, it's true, too, and you'll have to give it a shot of ears when it's needed, but there are cases — and I can prove it with facts — where Culture makes a report in a month and the Town Hall — Lugo — takes one year to give the appropriate license for rehabilitation in the Tinería, for constructions in the Tinería, in the historic town of Lugo. That's right there, for example. No, no, but that's the way it is. [[Murmurs.]] And, man, in next year's June budgets there's a 13% increase over 2017's and 35% increase over 2016's budgets. That is the reality: 33 million euros for rehabilitation, 10 million more in the convention for the municipalities of less than 50,000 inhabitants. Yes, Mr. Sánchez, 10 million plus Euros, for zero interest loans. Of course, there's another deal that's about empty housing, where the municipalities of En Marea don't get on the subject of empty housing, they don't have the possibility of rehabilitation... No, it's not. [[Interruptions.]] They can have what they want. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u203	No, don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u204	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u205	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u206	Regardless of that, although they come to say very similar to our initiative, that they don't like it, but then ultimately their contribution is very similar to that which puts the initiative itself, as I say, we're still open to a transaction to logically seek the assumption. For us the most important thing is to get a good rehabilitation law for all of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u207	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. There's a pending transaction. It'll bring it in. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the creation by the Government of Greece of an agency involving the various groups that make up the device for the prevention and extinction of forest fires in order to analyse the fourth and fifth generation fires, establish the appropriate performance protocols and adapt the human and material media to these fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u208	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u209	Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, good afternoon. I don't know why every crisis, rather than reflect, the People's Party overthrows and gives them budget for the media — EUR 77,000 — as a measure of concealment. The means of extinction — Mr President said this morning — the most varicose-looking people in the world carry one third of the budget of the Rural Council. Ordering is chaos and the fires of October 15th, many of them interfaces, they tied feet and hands the troops. If the countryside was not abandoned, if the mountain was a socially assumed and starred space, if the multifunctionality replaced the robbery installed in the monoculture, we would be discussing aspects and not essences at this time. Well, let's go to the negated fires. Until the '90s and '90s, most fires, still with various complications, were controlled by four fundamental reasons. One. Because the dispersed population entities did not have to protect them, because they were already for agricultural activity; much of the slaughterhouse fuel was used as fertilizer and as a bed for cattle; around the inhabited nuclei there were lands of cultivation and there was no social acceptance of the proximity of dense masses of mountain, treed or not, near the dwellings. Therefore, the activity of the fire prevention and extinction service was more offensive than defensive. Two. The forest masses did not have the current volume or were so large; the meadows separated them and cut them off; today, after the abandonment of agricultural activity and reduced dairy farms to one tenth, Mr. Dani Vega, to one tenth. It achieves the desertification of the countryside, the occupation by the trees of thousands of hectares of land land makes the fire of October 15 truly not reach the Cantabrian in all its splendor. Three. The new climate cycle, with higher temperatures, relative humiditys -- which has already been mentioned to satiety here -- were unknown in our country, because they didn't provoke those spread speeds that scare us so much at the moment. Four. The atomization of the fire extinguishing service, under the responsibility of the Union, with the continuing weight loss in this, in particular, seriously affects the effectiveness. In the fire of Verín this year, the entire air power of Galicia was dissipated. In what happened in 2005, there were many simultaneous fires and there was much less water power; and yet this time the fire advanced faster than that. The fourth-generation fires -- the so-called interfaces -- generate multi-emergency with impacts both on housing and people and, of course, on average, can generate situations of trapping at risk for human lives. Of course, the priority is the protection of citizenship. The fireman acts in front of the fire to defend himself. If we add to this a propagation rate that in some specific cases can reach speeds of 40 meters/minute, situations can become uncontrollable. The fire goes in front of the firemen, the fire runs in front of the fire, or behind the fire. So, means of protecting citizenship are diverted without the appropriate protocols to combine with other emergency services; it's chaos; there's no clear protocol that says how far the forest fireman is, up to where the urban fireman, up to where Civil Protection, Police, Civil Guard... The fires that were up to ninety in Galicia had an average propagation speed of about 10 meters/minute, an hour advanced 600 meters, a means of normal air and land extinction was able to contain it and dominate it. Leiria's fire, in Portugal, advanced 55 meters/minutes, i.e., in an hour three and a half kilometers, in all directions, convective fire. There's no means to cut this fire. A convective fire is what moves secondary lights in all directions at great distances; therefore, it needs no wind to propagate, create its own winds and back. The propagation speed of the Verín fire this summer was around 28 meters/minute, so it was 18 meters/minute above the controller by a normal brigade and with normal means; it was a fire out of the capacity for extinction. So if the media start working on the flank, because there's a lot of smoke on the front, they never get it. It all indicates that there is a need for serious reflection right now, with the participation of all the elements that work in the prevention and extinction service, what to do and how to deal with the challenges of interface and fifth-generation fires. To the dramatic warning that the fire of Leiria has given us, we must add our own experience of October 15th. The conditions were extreme — 30-30-30 — but they were also extreme to the incompetence and improvisation of the People's Party's Government. Looks like we all knew it could happen, all except the government. Can you... It can happen again at any time, the fuel is ready. The failure to comply with the law on home security lines and infrastructure makes the threat there, always present. It's certainly the most urgent problem we have to solve. No one understands that after several serious threats, the Government of the People's Party has not taken measures and launched balloons outside. All of this should make us think deeply about these fires and analyze them in time, designing strategies that avoid improvisation and ineffectiveness. No one here sat on a table to analyze how a convective fire works, like Leiria fire, how an interface fire works, how it combines with the Civil Guard, urban firefighters, etc. All this, in our view, should at this point be contrasted, studied and protocoled. We have professionals of extinction with knowledge and experience enough to shape and prepare the service for these continences. Reflection, protocol and formation would be the steps to take; form, homogenize, stabilize, unify and put an end to so much precariousness and heterogeneousness in the service; translated into common: chiringuits. That's another song. For all of the above, this Parliamentary Group of the BNG urges the Government of Greece to create a body — and here we will admit the amendment made to us by the Socialist Party — that counts with the active participation of the various collectives who form part of the entire apparatus that intervenes in the device of prevention and extinction, to jointly analyse the four-and-a-fifth-generation fires that exist, they are there. The other day they showed us that our firefighters, the brigades, the people... everyone was defending the houses, and the fire was belling through their broads where they weren't houses, and where there were houses too, unfortunately. This is a reality we cannot ignore. Hiding under the wing is a matter of ostriches and other animals; rational human beings don't, and we shouldn't. So we urge the Galician Union to observe these fires, to put on the batteries, to change the batteries, to load the batteries and to start taking ourselves seriously; not the forest, the mountain, because the mountain is a whole, the forest is a part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u211	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u212	Good afternoon again. We welcome this BNG initiative that points to problems that are waiting for solution and that we must not postpone with the excuse of partyism. We understand that we cannot remain static in the face of changing realities like those that have lived or are living in recent years. The change in the socio-economic context, particularly driven by the loss of the importance of the agricultural sector, in parallel with the march of demographic troops towards the city, was the most decisive element in changing the situation in the rural world; a dynamic world that is socio-economically speaking and vital from the demographic point of view. The change experienced in these last thirty years has been brutal. Over 30,000 farms have been lost all this time. It must be remembered that only this year there are 265 farms less, and in the last 30 years we have to talk about 265,000 hectares of useful agricultural land. On the other hand, dozens of thousands of people passed by to the towns and villages of the head of the region, increasing the effect of emptiness in the countryside. If we add to this a negative vegetative growth that provides a galloping aging in the rural population, and if we add to this the lack of adequate land use planning, the abandonment of a considerable part of the rural world, ultimately, we're going to find ourselves with an abandoned panorama that creates the right crop broth for the fire to spread to its widths. And this is not catastropheism, but the reality we all know. We all say rural, despite the fact that few of us live in it, but we all have a similar perception of socio-economic maturation about 85% of the territory. And above all this we are not able to assimilate that classical seasonality, as it is, for example, at the Pladiga, and that it presides over all the plans for extinction and prevention, is in profound transformation, and that until today that seasonality continues to apply so, without taking into account the climate reality of time, in continuous change. This situation adds a whole series of dysfunctions that can be exemplified in the failure of a single command for the extinguishing device — despite what we hear today this morning against this idea — that the professionals and the workers of the public extinguishing service assess, and that, together with a formative deficiency — another of the demands, on the other hand considerable for a part of this device — cause a lack of effectiveness that is necessary and urgent to correct. In addition, we need to incorporate as correct a reading as possible on the situation and its impact on the socio-economic and environmental fabric. For example, it is important that the analysis of the situation caused by the fires and possible adequate answers be taken into account for the development of the new Forest Plan, as we said earlier in the defence of the motion. They're not going to talk about woods, mountains, killings, among other things. To draw some good conclusions that help coordinate public service extinguishers and alert systems, we understand that it is essential. Planning the action of the media adapted to climate reality and land use is very important to increase the capacity to respond to the phenomenon of fires of the next generation. Therefore, to provide conclusions for the new Forest Plan and to meet the requirements of multifunctionality and prevention will be key to the most effective response to fire vacancies. And that, we understand, is what this initiative is about, looking for answers to a changing situation, which is very different from the situation in which extinction and prevention services start on a large scale. So we're going to support this initiative, this non-law proposal from the BNG. We had the nuance of the amendment, but I see they accept it. So our support for this initiative, which we understand will increase the best knowledge for the best fight against these fire strikes and fire strikes in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u213	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u214	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. In the fires of this past October, the concentration of fires was high, but not much less was the highest of the entire historical period; in fact, according to the data of the Rural Middle Council, the number of fires during the 24 hours of increased fire pressure was 210 between Sunday 22 and Monday 23, when the autonomic department itself numbered an average of a summer day between 40 and 50 fires. In addition, if you compare this data to the fateful year 2006, the year of largest number of fires in the next century, we see that August 10 was the day with more fires all year round, there were 281 forest fires burning on the first fortnight, 85,000 hectares. The amount of surface burnt down in this last wave of fires made public by the countryside is 49,000 hectares. What's the matter? So the problem we think is that we are faced with a new kind of fire; fires, as well explained here by the comrades who intervened before me, of the fourth and even fifth generation. From Marea we say it here not long ago. Some Member of this House joked about it, I don't know if it went well out of ignorance or otherwise. The case is that the Rural Council itself now recognizes this type of fire. From a technical point of view, the professionals responsible for the extinction of forest fires, the public service, the main cause of the chaos experienced during the fire strike is the result of this new type of fires that we find, where the combination of the abandonment of rural areas, the agglomeration of pyrophytic species, climate change and the urban chaos of rural expansion areas turned the country into a real time bomb. To this we have to add that criminal activity incendiary acts by matching certain climate conditions such as those that occurred on the weekend of fires, and here we have had a real disaster. And that's not because President Feijóo is ruling right now, this has been historically, always. We have a problem, but not because he's ruling the People's Party right now. It's a problem of pyromania, that they set fire when the conditions are going to favor that fire spread. The fourth-generation fires, which combine these forest fires with urban fires, and even fifth-generation fires, large simultaneous forest fires with massive interface fires, are filling in the power of extinction of the teams and forcing the means of extinction to act in a defensive attitude, protecting the nuclei of population, when the public service had to be is attacking the fire in an offensive way on the mountain. The public device of the Union is anchored in the fires of the 1990s: large fires, which surpassed the device of extinction, but where there was no such real threat about populations, as is happening today. From Marea we have brought proposals to this House, proposals that you know are necessary. In fact, the president of many of the proposals that we have brought him here announced, but that ours has never gone forward. We have asked for these clear protocols between the different intervention teams, both urban and forestry, and we have left it shaped into a gap that we presented there in July; the staffing protocols for the interface fires, where they operate at least urban and forest firefighters; the communication protocols and with the provision of different means that operate in the fires; the adaptation of the public service to the new fires; the incorporation of all public service personnel — we have demanded here on numerous occasions — a minimum of 9 months, as well as the collective agreement, so that we can better carry out the prevention and emergency work that can happen; and that they and they also have dignified working conditions. We need the use of other media -- we also discussed it the other day in a committee -- even the director general of Montes gave us the reason. Today the air media that we have working on our fires, with a load of 1,000 litres of water and 5-person brigades, completely overcome. We need a lot more powerful apparatus, with a higher capacity of water loading and acting in adverse wind conditions. In the short term, we have to carry out urgent coordination meetings at a sectoral table — or as the Union wants to call it — to prevent us from happening again on the weekend of October 15. And of course, as we always emphasize it, we have to count on a single public device that is more operational than what we currently have. So, then, well, right now we're going to support this initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block, because we share the entire extension of it. I think it's important that we recognize the new type of fires and that we don't anchor in the past, because we have some conditions that we ourselves have been creating over the years with the Forest Plan -- which we spoke about recently -- climate conditions that have been changing too, and a latent urban chaos. So I think it has to be that way, and we're going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u215	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balseiros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, this initiative should have been withdrawn, given the presence of the President this morning and after the broad debate and the measures announced, unless in this case the saying "to preach in the desert, lost sermon" should be applied. Mr. Rivas Cruz, in his proposal, you start by talking about fires in the 1990s and the 1990s and the 1990s, and he says that they were much more controllable because, above all, of the greatest agricultural activity, of a fuel burden below the current one, that climate change had not occurred and that the fire extinguishing service was not so atomized. Mr Rivas, in the 1990s — which you set out as an example — there were 93,845 fires in Galicia, which means an average of 9,384 fires every year. Given that in the last decade there have been a total of 33,678 fires, the average result is 3,367 fires per year. That already indicates by itself that the Union's firefighting operation is increasingly prepared, more equipped and equipped, is becoming more professional and is becoming more and more resolute and immediate. Three times less fires in the last decade, ladies and gentlemen — the arguments speak to you, Mr Rivas —. The data, ladies and gentlemen — let us take the years we have taken, let us take the decade that we take — demonstrate that under normal circumstances the Joint Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service is highly effective. By the way, Mr. Rivas Cruz, in another section of his initiative, says that in 2005 there were many simultaneous fires and that, however, now the fires are moving ahead more than then. It's funny, Your Honor; it's curious that you set the example of 2005. He could have chosen the following year, 2006. Do you know how many simultaneous fires there were that year?, do you know how far they advanced, do you know how fast they advanced? And, above all, do you know how many hectares have been burned? I'll tell you, almost 96,000, Your Honor. Almost 96,000 acres burned in a single year in Galicia, that's a record. We can take as reference the years we want, or the decades we want, or the reasons we want, but the most negative figures lead us to that fateful year 2006. And that year, opposition lords, you were government in Galicia. What is it, Mr. Rivas? If at that time there was no abandonment of agricultural activity, if there was not so much fuel load, if there was no climate change and if the extinction service was not so atomized, how does it explain that this year the fires were not controlled, they moved so far and they burned 96,000 hectares? Even worse than then there was no urban chaos or abandonment of the countryside! As bad as then the helicopters had more power and they took more water! As bad as in 2006 there were no fourth- or fifth-generation fires! For, like, 96,000 acres burned that year, gentlemen! And returning to his initiative, the firefighting in certain times of the year beyond the summer is customary in recent years, recording a considerable firefighting activity especially in the months of March and April, in the spring, and, as this year happened, very markedly throughout the month of October. The increase in fires this year — as you well know — has generally been favored by adverse weather conditions, extremely in this last wave of fires. That's why Junta extended the high danger period of fires. By the way, Mr. Rodríguez, as you notice you have some idea of fires. Thank you for recognizing here in this House that it wasn't the most traumatic wave in history in the fires of Galicia. And thanks for admitting it's not because he's running the PP. Well, some of your colleagues back there said in a low voice, "Don't say that"... [[Laughter]] In any case, the Greek device is powerful and flexible, which allows it to adapt to the circumstances of each moment. In fact, there is already a natural adaptation to the progressive incorporation of personnel as the level of risk increases and its gradual re-regulation when it drops. This year, for example, the recruitment of personnel before the fire strike has expanded because of the special conditions of hydrological and meteorological drought and the high-risk situation that we were living in. There's never been so many fire-fighting media in Galicia before in October, twice as usual. But the extinction teams have been working on that weekend, and above all on the night of October 15, in unprecedented weather conditions in October and at a time of the year as we are at this moment. But not even the fires in which there were more means, more brigades, more planes, more helicopters, more bombs and more members of the Army could be suffocated in the usual time due to the extreme difficulties they had to deal with, even putting their lives at risk. So, given the special circumstances, the current operation consists of 5,600 workers -- a device with more means than ever in October and November. It is worth noting that the second consecutive extension — the first was before the fire strike — the contracts of the 436 discontinuous fixed workers of the Union and the 500 unemployed of the Seaga public enterprise. The contract of the 3 helicopters that the Union had already extended until 31 October was also extended. This, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrates the flexibility and adaptability to the destabilization of the Union's operational fires in the fight against forest fires. Finally, Mr. Rivas, to finish now, with regard to his proposal, I see the obligation to remind him that the Rural Council, through the forest research brigades, had already been doing this. But in addition, I suppose you heard the President of the Union in his presence announce a battery of reforms that, among many other measures, and especially those that meet his proposal, will expand and allow research work to be specialized through the creation of forest research teams formed by a minimum of 57 agents; the creation of monitoring teams to ensure compliance with the measures included in forest legislation and fire defence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u217	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u218	...with at least 38 agents; the creation of the Administrative Register of Forest Fire Research; the creation of a forest surveillance network through surveillance cameras; and, as a colonist — as far as his initiative is concerned, Mr Rivas — the president has also announced the creation of a specific forest study commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u220	There is no doubt — and I will conclude, President — that these measures go beyond mere undetermined and unconcreted proposals such as those made by the opposition. These are serious, courageous, conclusive, cooperative, resolute and ambitious proposals that will undoubtedly help to reduce the potential for proliferation... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u222	...of forest fires and will improve coordination and effectiveness in prevention and extinction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u223	Thank you, Mr. Basketballs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u224	I hope they have a chance — that they will have it — to debate and agree with us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u225	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u226	...the above measures; especially you, Mr. Rodríguez, whom I thank for your position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u227	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u229	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairos, you have the strange virtue of making my life happy. Yes, really. Could not connect with command "%s": [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter is, finally, I don't know, I keep asking about a motorcycle in 2006. Do you know where he is? I don't. Let's see, how many hectares burned in the 1990s? What virulence did the fire have? Where was he? Here we're talking about something technical, Mr. Balsairos, and you don't want to know; I don't know why, but you don't want to know. We're talking about something technical that many of us don't know, but technicians do know and transmit. No, no, no, technicians know and transmit that there are fourth- and fifth-generation fires. [[Mr. Balsairos Guinarte pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And that the interface fires, or fires that ignite, that attack houses and properties, and pathways and infrastructures, those fires are there. And they're there because of you; they're because of you, yes, sir, because the abandonment of rural life is a reality for thirty-five years, and you were in the Government, and they're still in the Government. They remain in the Government and continue to govern the pleasure that is sent to them by Ence and the wood industry—that's right!—the eucalyptus industry. [[Applause]] Yes, Mr. Balsairos, yes, you recognize him at once. The problem of mountains and fires is a structural problem and it's a national problem. It's a country problem! Of course! We have been condemned to produce infra-maids and we have at the disposal of the infra-maid the best lands, which are abandoned by their politics. That's right, man! That's right! [[Murmurs.]] Of course you do! Take a look at the countryside, look at the lines of communication, the ways of parliament, the places, the national calls, look at them; there's eucalyptus up to the crib, man! Or not? Or am I stupid? [[Murmurs.]] Or do I live in an imaginary country? I live in the real country, and that real country is there and you see it every day. And you don't have noses to put into practice the measures that are put into law. They don't have them, they never did. Fuck! [[Applause]] Sure... come on, come on, come on! [[Applause]] Yes, yes! [[Applause]] I know that Mr. Feijóo slept with the Bipartite and with Alfredo Suárez Canal these days, and with the measures there were, so they meet, so they go back to the research brigades, so they go back to the distances that you have derogated, and that's why they're trying to get us to heat up like auxfor. But it is necessary to order the mountain, and it is necessary to put it not to produce wood or infra-maid. [[Applause]] The mountain is a multifunctional thing. The mountain of this country, the ones that have memory and years, we know it was a lot different from what you want to do. You want to make a jungle of eucalyptus. In this country the word forest was contemptuous. Here the friar — with the forgiveness of Mr. Fraga, who was in glory — was a multitude of distinct and unaccompanied trees. We understand the mountain as it must be understood, and so we'll start talking. Look at you, you want or you don't want to recognize it, the interface and fifth-generation fires are there, and they're going to give us a lot more scars. I don't like being greedy or predicting catastrophes, but they're there. And we took care of ourselves because as soon as there are more dead and as soon as they commit the barbarities they committed, closing the media, having no noses to cut off the channels of communication and saying everyone in the house, this and this... because what came was terrifying, and -- I repeat -- did not arrive at the Cantabria because the gods did not want it and because nature -- the nature and the courage of the people -- once more was on the side of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u231	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the performances that must be carried out by the Government of Greece for the restitution to the public heritage and the declaration as well of cultural interest of two statues of the Portico da Gloria of Santiago de Compostela Cathedral that are part of the exhibition on Master Mateo's work inaugurated in the palace of Xelmírez, as well as to ensure the legal protection of all the existing goods within the palace of Meirás
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u232	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u233	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u234	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. "A spy of many spolies," that could be the synthetic title of the motives behind the proposal not the law that In Tide brings to this House today; a policeman of many spolies who lasts too long and before which neither silence nor indifference do lie. The shadow of frankism is elongated, which Rafael Escudero would say, paraphrasing Deliberies. Let them tell the families of the victims, the people who lost everything; let them tell all the people who keep waiting for justice and reparation; all those who still suffer the consequences of impunity and forgetfulness. We speak in this case of the plundering of both public and private heritage perpetrated for years under the umbrella of franchiseism for use and enjoyment of the dictator's family; this long night of stone of murders, disappearances, prisoners and political prisoners, people who have fled to exile, reprisaled, and also of systematic thefts and forced gifts that have affected, according to the studies, some 200,000 families, beyond the countless public heritage seized for the cause of fascism; this long night of stone which, through violence, has put an end to a single state of republican democracy; this long night of stone which continues to interpelte us here today as elected representatives of citizenship to promote memory policies that shed light on our past; policies that end to the very necessary memory, justice and reparation. Questions that are, although it costs to believe, about to fulfill the 42 years of the dictator's death, still pending matters. As a pendant it is that he returns to the people what is the people, the palace of Meiraes, of course, repeatedly denounced in this Parliament; the maximal symbol of that polypolies and the example of the real democratic shame which means that the dictator's family is still alive and enjoying understated properties. In that sense, historians and experts on the subject denounce that the palace of Meiraes is only the tip of the iceberg of the entire warehouse of stolen, accumulated properties, for years both inside and outside the palace: paintings, statues, fountains, cruises... in addition to many other lands and historic buildings that fattened the dictator's heritage and his family. And it was that the voraciousness of franchiseism had no limits. In this sense, it is possible to understand the subtraction of two of the sculptures that were part of the Portic of Glory. Impossible not to remember Rosaly, impressed by the realism of the work, when he said, "See!, it seems/ that the lips move, that speak remain/ (...) Will they be alive? Will they be of stone?/ those seeds so true,/ those wonderful robes,/ those eyes of life full?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh We speak, as you know, of two sculptures of Abraham and Isaac, two magnificent statues of stone columns of the end of the 12th century and the beginning of the 13th century that came out of Master Matthew's workshop as part of the culmination work of the sculpture of the Romanic Greek. Rosalía could not contemplate them in its original location, since in the 18th century the statues emerged from the Cathedral of Compostela to move to the palace of the county of Ximonde, to, two centuries later, be bought by the Town Hall of Santiago itself and finally fattened the fraudulent heritage of the Franco family, which moved them to Meirás and then to Cornide's house. However, there is not a single document certifying this supposed last property, quite the opposite. The official documentation ends in Compostela in its own purchase-for-sale contract in 1948; a document certifying the sale of part of Fr. Santiago Puga Sarmiento, by then the county of Ximonde, to the Town Hall of Compostela for—textually— "the artistic heritage of this city". And for them, along with a third statue object of the purchase, the Town Hall stole the price of 60,000 pesetas. The contract also established in its third clause a condition imposed by the seller, which was a condition sine qua non for the sale to take place, by virtue of which the sale of the statues was conditioned — and I quote again textually as we can read in the contract — "that they remained indefinitely in the heritage of the excellent Santiago de Compostela Council", a condition clearly unfulfilled, every time they now work in the dictator's family. So that, once they were bought by the Town Hall of Compostela, they settled on one of the stairs of access to the upper floors of the Raxoi palace, home of the Town Hall, as you know, and headquarters of the local corporation. So far the legal and documentation, because in the historical archives there are no traces of agreement, resolution or legal business by virtue of what the works of art we speak of ended up in the hands of the Franco family. From there, history, history of the systematic theft of the composite heritage, intendedly legal, that perpetuated the dictatorship. In this sense, the most reliable sources that could be obtained, as mentioned in the work of historian Ricardo Gurriarán, refer to the 25th of July 1954, with the gallo to celebrate the Holy Year of Jacob, the dictator went to the city of Santiago, accompanied by his wife, for the traditional offering to the Apostle, which takes place in the cathedral, as well as to inaugurate the Parador de Santiago at the Hostal of Catholic Kings, which was the object of rehabilitation. This visit included a special reception in Raxoi's palace to give them the City's Grand Medal of Gold and the title of Lady of Honor, respectively, being on that visit where Carmen Polo focused his attention on the two sculptures of Master Mateo who adorned the already mentioned stairs. On that visit, he showed great interest in them to the mayor himself, by that then Enrique Otero Aenlle. We already know how these things ended at that time and how volunteers were all the gifts under the authoritarian regime of frankism. Thus, a few days later, the mayor, with no legitimacy whatsoever for such purpose, surely because of the desire to please the dictator and his wife, sent the sculptures to the palace of Meirás, a summer residence of the wedding, where they were a few years, until later they went to overcome the so-called house of Cornide, an 18th-century urban palace located, as you know, in the city of Coruña, another chapter more in this long history, of this long list of pillages and gifts that received the Franco family. I mean, as of today, Franco's family has illegitimately kept the statues in their power. Nothing makes him think, as we see in his repeated disregards of the Heritage Law in regard to visits of goods of cultural interest, that will voluntarily change his attitude. In fact, the Franco family has already received and ignored numerous requests from civil society, such as now from the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela, to restore to the public the spoilt of war; numerous requests for the theft between so much pain and suffering by means of being part of the public heritage and can be enjoyed throughout citizenship. From En Marea we think it's time for the entire heritage of all Greeks and Greeks to cease to be part of the private collection of the heirs of the dictatorship, of the heirs of frankism. It is time for the stolen to be again a public heritage, time to repair the honor and dignity of the people, who were stolen and forced to give up money and property under the risk of reprisals; time also for the sculptures of the Arctic of Glory to return to the Compostela definitely, a city from which they had never had to leave; time, ultimately, to put some justice between so much injustice. It is urgent and necessary, for a democracy that wants to be it must frankly look at its past to undress normally what has never been and cannot be considered as normal; to denounce the democratic barbarity which implies that today, forty-two years later, we insist, the Franco family not only benefits from the legacy of the coupist military through the countless properties that treasure it, but rather disobeys the laws and put in the hands of a fascist foundation the visits to Meiras. A real democratic scandal, a mockery and contempt of all the victims of the dictatorship and repression. Democracy has to return everything that the dictatorship has stolen. For all this, and wishing to be able to have the consensus of this House, as in the municipal plenary of Santiago de Compostela and as in the General Courts of the State, the Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to: First of all, to collaborate with the Santiago de Compostela Council in order to recover the statues that work illegally in the hands of the Frankish dictator's family, with the objective of returning to the hands of the municipal heritage so that they can be enjoyed throughout citizenship within the Cathedral Museum, the place that experts consider most suitable for their enjoyment and conservation. Secondly, to initiate the procedure for the declaration as an asset of cultural interest of the previous sculptures and, above all, to act to ensure that the declaration has the legal effects laid down by the Heritage Law. And thirdly, to proceed to the cataloguing of all the goods existing within the palace of Meirás in order to ensure their legal protection, because, as we say, the history of the sculpture spolium is part of this long history of spy spolium which continues to have consequences to this day. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u236	Thank you, President. Mrs. Chao was talking about titles or chapters. We believe that this could well be a chapter more than franchising without Franco, post-Franquism or impunity enjoyed by fascism still today in the Spanish State and, by extension and evil that weighs many of us here in Galicia; impunity for which we enjoy forty-two years after the death of the dictator. A situation, that of Master Mateo's sculptures, which were part of the Romanesque facade of the Cathedral of Compostela, but which remain in the hands, as explained here, of the dictator's family, after being stolen from the Town Hall of Compostela and, by extension, the Greek people. Since the BNG — we have said so many times — this is a symptom. Master Mateo's sculptures, Cornide's home and Meirás's palace reflect a symptom; a symptom of the impunity enjoyed by fascism in this country, a fascism that spreads wide across the streets, allowing him to make the apologizing of the genocide dictatorship and even manage the visits of a good of cultural interest like that of Meirás. In this sitting, we believe that sculptures must be returned, of course, to their rightful owner, the Town Hall of Compostela, to which, as already explained, they were sold — and must remember, in addition, under the commitment not only that they had not left the city, but that a compensation of 400,000 pesetas — which today might seem to us little, but that at the time they were a lot of money — were this not done. In addition, as the initiative takes, we agree that the Galician Council should support the actions which the Compostolá Municipal Corporation adopts — it has already adopted — as it may be to provide support, advice, if it so requests or so requires, for example, in the demand against the Franco family itself. And we believe, in addition, that it must immediately, with agility, begin the file of declaration of sculptures as good of cultural interest; a file that has already been announced in the press. It must be announced — it is right, it must be announced — what will be done, but above all, what is announced must be done and what must be done with speed and haste, because, in addition, it would help and serve as support — we have no doubt about that demand also brought against the Franco family. And we have added, from the BNG — and in that sense goes to the fourth point that we have added — that Parliament must act, and do so in a powerful way. The Board of Gaulza must abandon the relevance with which it acts with respect to the Francisco Franco Foundation, which continues as if nothing, apologizing the figure of the dictator, dictatorship and fascism through the visits of the palace of Meirás, which continues to manage. Because you have to recognize something, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you've managed to take away your focus from what's happening in Meirás. They came here — they will remember — to approve the creation of a commission that was intended to study the possibility of recovery for the public of the palace; a commission that was not established yet and that was no longer known from that day on which this initiative was voted in this House, but the objective was fulfilled: the story died, and, in the meantime, the foundation is still in Meirás and the peace in the hands of the Francs. We believe that commitments, that wills, that declarations of intentions must materialize them not only by supporting them in this case — and we hope that our amendment will be accepted — but this initiative, like others that can be brought to this House. And I believe that for the sake of acquiring a joint political commitment to all the political forces that we have made this House, to end with the police, to regain anti-fascist memory and to restore the memory of the victims of the dictatorship's genocide, they will have an opportunity—we will bring it through the Nationalist Block Galego to this House again, and we hope to have something more success this year—which is to create a budgetary departure in these budgets that are currently being processed in the House by 2018 containing funds, economic resources, to recover public policies for the recovery of historical memory. We will support the initiative. We hope that our amendment will be accepted. And I think it's a question of dignity, of democratic hygiene, which today goes on with all the support of the House. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Antón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u238	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The non-legislative proposal presented today by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea is a sequel to the debates we have already had in this House, as previously mentioned by the honourable Members, in the mid-September plenary session, whose aim was to restore to the public the palace of Meirás. By the way, the proposal we put forward and that you would not support in the same procedural sense what the Town Hall of Santiago is doing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to take part in the career set by En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block to show who is the most anti-Francist of both, because we have already shown that our principles and our ideals do not match nor accept Francoist attitudes and demonstrations like those carried out by the Franco Foundation; we will not accept it. That's why the German People's Party Government didn't shake its hands when it had to file files to the Franco family regarding the visits to the Meirás palace, and that's why the People's Party supported the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block in the Santiago Town Hall, debated in the middle of November 21, with a similar end to the non-law proposition that today brings in Marea to this House. We can say that as a result of this municipal agreement the Town Hall has just approved at the local government board of October 27th the prosecution against Carmen Franco y Polo to recover the two figures. The Town Hall also expresses the commitment of the municipal government that the two sculptures are the object of permanent exhibition in the Museum of the Cathedral of Santiago, with which we fully agree. Therefore, the People's Party is already working with the Town Hall of Santiago to carry out the actions it deems necessary in order to recover the figures of Isaac and Abraham. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know that judicial actions only correspond to the Council as long as it owns the so-called figures, and in that judicial process the Board cannot influence. The indeterminate collaboration called for in this non-law proposal should be realized, particularly since there is a firm judgment and the legitimate property of the aforesaid statues is corroborated. Without a doubt, the Union guarantees at all times the necessary technical support and advice for its position in value. In this sense, it goes to the first point of our amendment. And the second point of the amendment refers to the request for BIC declaration of these sculptures, and despite the fact that the Council of Santiago did not address the Council of Galicia to request the declaration of the sculptures as BIC, as agreed at the plenary of September 21, the Council of Culture has just announced on October 28th that it will begin by its own initiative a file of good cultural interest of the well-known sculptural pieces that are preserved from the disappeared outer facade of the Arctic of Gloria. In this set of sculptures — nine in total — there are those of Isaac and Abraham, who are currently in possession of the Franco family, along with others that are guarded both in the Museum of the Cathedral of Santiago and in the Museum of Pontevedra. The Counsellor has already announced that the statement will not be as a collection but will be individually. With regard to the third point of the proposal from En Marea, concerning the request for cataloguing all existing goods of the palace of Meirás, I must refer to the procedure followed for the declaration of the palace of Meirás as BIC. The decree and the reports on which the declaration is based describe the elements that were estimated at the time by the technicians who instructed the file, not free of controversy, as they will remember, and even with judicial decisions for it to be made. This process is sufficient guarantee to protect property from the perspective of its cultural value, in our opinion. The 2008 Bipartisan Government Board of Governors, as we all know, after the reports of the consultative bodies and the perceptual periods of public information, has adopted the statement that is still in force today and that circumstances have not been changed from the moment to the present state. I don't know if what I'm proposing in Marea is to review the performance of the two-party government and technicians or cataloguing the trophies of hunting, family paintings and dictator tastes, because, fortunately, the most important legacy, the one that belonged to Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán, is deposited in the Welsh Academy. I'm done. Mrs. Chao, I beg you not to understand our amendments as a correction to your proposal and as a positive contribution, for the end they pursue is the recovery of these two statues and these two important parts for the public heritage. We therefore hope that they will accept our amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. It is clear that the policeman and looting of the Franco family did not end in the palace of Meiraes or in the house of Cornide, nor ended in Galicia, because it was the story of a looting done for decades; a spoils of lands, of real estate, of works of art, which is yet to be investigated. Because all the spolies, all the goods polished by the Franco family, achieved through the coercion, this coercion exerted on private people, on people and on institutions, that coercion that can only exercise a dictatorship, that story, as I say, is about to be investigated and done. But it is also true that things are gradually appearing, as is in this case sculptures, statues, of the Arctic of Glory. It is also true that citizenship, through us, through associations, through different forums, is responding in a very different way to what it did before; it is responding and saying that it is necessary to return that good, these public goods, to citizenship; it is responding in an active way, without accepting that this remains to be this way and that it remains in the possession of the Franco family. Therefore, a policeman with whom, of course, we must finish, and, in this case, with the sculptures of the Portico da Gloria, of which we are speaking at this time, who represent Abraham and Isaac and who belong to the same group of David and Solomon, who are on the profile of the stairway of the western entrance. Sculptures, as was said here, from the end of the 12th century, from the beginning of the 13th century, that came out of Master Matthew's workshop. And, speaking of them, I would like to thank the work of an association, like Daniel's Smile, very active around the defense of medieval heritage, which in recent decades was the first to claim these sculptures, to denounce that they were in the hands of the Franco family in 2012. Others have done it before, but in this decade and more publicly, this association has done it, so I think it's necessary and it's of nominal justice. As already known, these sculptures have been lost for centuries. The first time there was news of them was in 1933, the hand of Fermin Bouza Brey, who found them in a palace in the county of Ximonde, and it was already commented here as they came to the hands of the Town Hall of Santiago, through a sale made by the county of Ximonde in 1948. In the 1950s they passed, through a whim of the Franco family, from Franco and his wife, to their possession, to Meirades, as far as we know. I, referring to Meirades, wanted to tell Mrs. Anton that she is not as you commented. There is a part of the legacy, unknown, of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán that follows in the palace of Meirás and which is not catalogued, which is not well known; that is, one cannot say so firmly that everything is known and that everything is protected, because the legacy of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán is not in its integrity at the Welsh Academy. There's a part we haven't met yet and it's seen in the library itself, because there's a bunch of French and English magazines that, of course, didn't belong to the Franco family, which were earlier. In any case, I, around the sculptures, also mean that it's very urgent for the Galician board to make the BIC statement. Also said the association The Smile of Daniel. It's very dangerous because these sculptures, along with all those that are in this exhibition, are going out in spring to New York, and they have to go back. And we're not going to be so naive to think that the family can't want to do anything about these sculptures, which have an incalculable value. So it's absolutely necessary for them to leave here with BIC's statement, because it's the only thing that can somehow prevent the administration from claiming them and not selling them. But, of course, that must be done, but it must be done very quickly, so that these sculptures don't go back; it won't be that we lose them again because of the Franco family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u242	First of all, I would like to thank all the groups for their interest in this non-law proposal. Let's try to reach a consensus at this extreme, which certainly seems to be good news! It is positive for all and for all Democrats and is, of course, positive for the citizenship of Santiago de Compostela. And that's why I'm going to ignore Mrs. Anton's frivolity of this supposed career we have with the Nationalist Block Galego. Because today we think that consensus is possible, necessary and that we have it close. That is the only objective which the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has with this proposal: to achieve a consensus that enables us to bet clearly and decisively on the recovery of stolen statues and to begin to reverse some of the injustice of the dictatorship. We have that possibility in hand, and that is why we call for a generous effort on the rest of the groups to join the consensus, as I have said before, which has already been reached in the Town Hall of Santiago, with the abstention of the People's Party. It has already been achieved unanimously in the General Courts, with the unanimous approval of all groups. That is why, although we fully share the sense of the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, it is more, of course, that we will continue to work to denounce the democratic aberration which assumes that a fascist foundation is advertising the dictatorship, even with public money, without immediate consequences, and we will continue to work for its illegalization and, of course, for the recovery of the peace of Meirás, we will not accept this amendment of addition, because this initiative wants to focus on the recovery of the previous statues. And, following the same logic of seeking maximum consensus, we will not accept the amendment of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Antón, is all that this government has to offer is technical advice? Because it looks like we don't read this sometimes in the Committee on Culture; the same applies to the recovery of statues in the hands of the Franco family as to the recovery of a castle that is in danger of disappearance. From In Marea we don't want to talk about technical counseling, what we want to get out of this Parliament is a political, nidio and forceful positioning for the recovery of the statues to Compostela's public heritage; strength to send a clear message to the dictator's family, and not tomorrow, not last, not even within a month, today. And it shouldn't be a difficult position to judge its positions in the Town Hall of Compostela, in the General Courts, even the words of the president of the board. Today they have occasion to prove that they are not words, that they are made. That's what our non-law proposal is about. That's what we're asking them to stand up for, either for or against. There are no ink in this: either in favor of memory or against, or in favor of recovery or against, or in favor, finally, of democracy or against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. As has been said, we raise the following question: Question by Da Eva Solla Fernández, by G. P. de En Marea, about the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the appointment of a budget split sufficient for the repair of the deficiencies presented by the building of the Mugardos Health Centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u244	Mrs. Solla, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u245	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, and good afternoon also to the mayor and concelers and concelers of the municipal government of Mugardos who accompany us. You see, Mr Almuña, that this matter that we have been dealing with here today about the deficiencies in the Mugardos health centre has been taking us for several years in parliamentary debates. This honourable Member who has already spoken to you from the Alternative Gaga de Lefta has on many occasions brought the situation of the Mugardos Health Centre to this House, both to Commission 5th and to this plenary session. On 10 and September 2008, nine years ago, the Full of the Mugardos Corporation approved the cooperation agreement between the Health Council and the Sergas Council and the Mugardos Council on the role of maintenance costs, or, what is the same, nine years ago, it was approved to transfer the Mugardos Health Centre to the Sergas. During the following years, the Town Hall met each and every one of the routes and provided all the documentation necessary for the transfer, including the exemption of the IBI, approved in 2013, as acknowledged by Mr. Campa himself in commission, in Commission 5a, to a question from that of Alternative Left Galicia. In that sense, the proceedings were completed in 2013 for the transfer and, however, throughout this time, it was the Mugardos Town Hall that continued to take care of the maintenance of the center, including the repair of the decks or even the repair of the boiler, because no transfer of any health center from the municipalities to the Junta de Galicia had occurred without knowing why that agreement with the Fegamp was not being made all these years. Besides, you see the situation in the center, a center with a very serious problem. The biggest problem is accessibility, there's no internal elevator, and a few narrow stairs communicate the two plants. There is no accessibility to wheelchairs, not even to the bathrooms of any of the plants, one of the bathrooms, one of the staff, is within a query, and you know also that there is an obvious problem with the central deck and even with the electrical installation. During all these years we have defended the necessary reforms of the health centre, accompanied by this transfer of the ownership of the centre. Then, after it moved that it was all right, the excuse was that the Joint Joint Joint Committee — a lot of noise — had not met the Joint Joint Committee, but in 2016, three years later, the Commission met and it was not the Mugardos Health Centre. Later, we had to wait until May 2017 for them to decide to make this move, and now, today, which is already effective from June -- or signed from June -- we found that in the 2018 budgets there is no single game for the construction or reform of the Mugardos Health Center. We have to find out on social networks that it seems like you're going to start...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u247	...some works and it seems to be — concluded — that — as far as we are aware — they have applied for a work permit worth EUR 33,000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u249	We want to be confirmed today if these reforms are to be carried out in the health centre.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u251	Good afternoon. Thank you very much for changing the question, because, as I explained, tomorrow we have to be at the Interterritorial Council in Madrid. That's why, thank you very much. The health centres continue to be a priority of the Health Council, and so it is collected by the Budget Project for 2018, which I have already reported at the budget meeting on October 27. With regard to health centres, we have nearly 10 million euros for construction and equipment in primary care: works, more agreements, more radiology. In the Budget Project for 2018, we have planned an investment of 8,543,664 for the new construction centres that we are going to build in Ares, Narón, Laracha, Milladoiro, Melide, The Road, the Integral Center of Health of Lugo, O Sabinao, we continue with Gondomar, Salceda de Caselas, Paderne de Allariz, The Perier de Aguiar, Peace of Borbén, Enlargement of the Island, and the projects, if we have the possibility by the Town Council of Coruña in this case, of Saint Lucia, or also the functional plans of spaces in Cangas, Moaña, Bouzas and also Lalin. Next year 2018 we will be able to assume the title and therefore the maintenance costs of health centres that the municipalities are in a position to yield after an agreement with Fegamp. They are around 150 health centres within group 1 of the local Covenant. To achieve improvements in these municipal property centres, we have EUR 600,000 for collaboration agreements with the municipalities, which we are applying. As far as equipment and technology are concerned in health centres, we will also renew radiology and bidding equipment, which is EUR 700,000 for the Pontifical Health Centre, Lalin, The Road, Arzua, Girl, Liver, Vilalba, Sanxenxo, Cangas and Redondola. As far as the Mugardos Council is concerned, I believe, Mrs Solla, that she must be very ill informed — that I want to take advantage of to greet the mayor, if she is here, and the concellers — because, as you know, the local pact is an agreement between the Fegamp, the Galician Union and a series of agreements signed, and in particular in the health centres it is decided within the Fegamp which centres should be accepted. It is true that in 2008, ruling the Bipartite, it reached an agreement that the maintenance of health centres would be assumed, but during the Bipartite Government no health centers transferred to the Union, and therefore continued the councils carrying out that maintenance. Afterwards, in different blocks, and according to, as I say, with the Fegamp, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, a number of health centers have been accepted. Mugardos specifically appeared by decision of the Fegamp, not by decision of the Galician Union, within this last block. And so we did, and we kept that word. So I think you should have the information a little better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u252	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u253	Counselor, perhaps what is wrong is you, you should speak to Mr. Campa. Check out the Session Journal. 17 March 2016, Mr Campa, in the 5th Health Commission, reported and transferred that the information that our group was transferring to the committee was so, it was true. In 2013 the proceedings were completed. The Galician Union only took this transfer of 26 health centres in 2011 and 25 in 2012, and since then they have not met to assume a single health center. Talk to your subordinates, because they don't seem to have the same information. However, we haven't come today to move this issue, because, fortunately, after much insistent, you've done the work you've been waiting for four years. But if you do, there's not a single penny in the budgets for the repair of this health center. It's also true that your budgets are getting more opaque and it's impossible to know what centers you're going to assign the repair or construction games. We came from the Committee on Economics, and we moved there that the health centers you said you were going to build this year were the same ones you said were going to build last year, and the same ones that appeared in the memory of the previous year. With which, of course, the budget does not serve to know the planning of the health policy of the Galician Union, which has simply EUR 543,664 assigned to the repair of health centres throughout Galicia. In the case of the Mugardos Health Center, you have to change the entire deck, you have to put on an elevator, you have to reform a whole plant and you have to make a number of improvements in the electrical wiring. I'm not going to transfer the municipal architect's reports, because they've been on the table for years, and I suppose the Galician Council itself will have its own reports. You know what needs are, and it seems they're now asking for a permit with a maximum of 33,000 euros of expenditure. I want you here today to commit yourself to the complete reform work of the health centre this year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Shut up, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u255	The truth is I probably don't explain myself too well, although the other day in the 2018 budget presentation, I recognized that for the first time, after five years, I could explain what a game was, which I didn't understand in these five years. Well, I think it's pretty much simpler than all that. And I want to say that the maintenance of the Mugardos Health Center, over the past thirty-seven years, was a matter of the Town Hall, and despite the great maintenance that the Town Hall has made, because it is as it is; according to you, very badly, in a lamentable state. The truth is, logically, many times, when you make a transfer from a center, what you're asking is that the health center be in the right condition to perform the work that is intended, in this case, a health function, and that's why we agree with you. And we also agree with you that there is no departure in 2018, because I have to tell you that at the moment an electric boiler change is being made to gas and complementary installations worth EUR 11,715, an elevator equipment to improve the accessibility of patients between plants, since this center has two plants — 41.927, an adjudicated file — and it is also aiming to adjudicate a low plant reform for the improvement of medical consultation of nursing and pediatrics, a pediatric waiting room, a maternal education room, an extraction room, a disabled bathroom, a clean and dirty warehouse —47,767,96—. So we understand that after thirty-seven years without making proper maintenance, I say it by how the facilities are, I think it'll change and it'll be much better. And you said I had to read the Session Diary. I don't have to read anything, what I have to tell you again is that the Fegamp has an agreement with the Galician Union and it's argued that centres are going to be accepted and blocks are set up that define the municipalities at that Fegamp meeting, and the Union does what it does, when it does, is just accept those on that list. And Mugardos, as I say, was in this last lot that we have been accepting for these months by processing, because it is true that the administrative process is not easy. We followed, as I said at first, by betting on primary care, improving it with new facilities and doing maintenance works. Even when the municipalities have the assumption of maintenance, we come to a cofinancing agreement to improve, because we understand that citizens really need those facilities. Today, specifically, we were at Paderne de Allariz, to present the project of the new health center, and we were at Laracha last week too, for enlargement. And we're going to continue to present facts so that, as I say, primary care will continue to maintain and, of course, improve service even more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u256	Thank you, Counselor. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-07-DSPG046.u257	Before I suspend the sitting until 10 a.m., I want to report a change in the agenda, which is already discussed with the stakeholders, and which is that the question that appears in the eighth place, which is a question from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, will be dealt with in third place, in the course of questions to the Government. You're already talking to Mrs Vilan. Thank you. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
