ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. They justified their inattentiveness of Mr. Miguel Tellado Filgueira and Mrs. Isabel Novo Farinha. We're on the agenda, point 1, legislating texts. Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u2	It's in relation to the first legislating text justly. A matter of order in accordance with Article 77.2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u3	Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u4	It's to find out what exactly the content of the bill we're going to discuss, because it was sent to this Parliament but on July 6th, the CEO sends a report of eight material errors in the bill and the Director General of Institutional Relations requests that they be amended. Subsequently, the President of Parliament took note of those writings. But of course, taking note we don't know very well what it is, therefore, we want to know whether the original bill or the amended one will be processed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u5	I'm informed that all these documents have been sent to you on the agenda of the plenary, which is what you're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u6	The documentation that was sent to us was the original bill. Shall we discuss the original or the amended?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u7	You'd be sending all the documents that collected the whole amendment. That's what the legal services now give me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u8	Of course, if we are going to discuss the amendment, I would like to know which article of the regulation can be amended, including techniques, to a text that is processed by single reading, because I read the regulation and I saw that there is an article that allows for the incorporation of correction of material errors, technical amendments, terminology, etc. into the committee procedure; but precisely the single reading does not incorporate the commission procedure. So my question is, according to which article can a Director-General — by violating the Council of the Union — amend a bill and the President of Parliament authorize such amendments to be incorporated into a legislative text?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u9	The President of Parliament in this case does what the legal services recommend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u10	On the basis of what Article of the Regulation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u11	I, who recommend legal services, know more than I do. So, I have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u12	If I could have been given the article of the Rules of Procedure, it would be easier to understand the position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u13	Maybe the lawyer tells us which article of the regulation is. But I, in any case, followed the recommendations of the legal services. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm told there isn't an article, it's a bug fixing. Often that can happen, and what has been done was a bug fixing, as I'm informed by the legal services. That's what I'm told, and so I think it's... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u14	Mr President, Rule 116 states that during the committee procedure, the Commission Bureau may accept new amendments, and that amendments which are intended to correct technical, terminology or grammar errors will also be allowed in the committee procedure. But the single reading just avoids the commission procedure, which is why it is done by single reading. So I don't know how technical amendments can be incorporated if there's no commission procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u15	I incorporated what the legal services give me. I'll get rid of something else!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u16	Mr President, why can a Director-General, by skipping the Board of Representatives, incorporate amendments and parliamentary groups?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u17	Well, that's... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The legal services inform me that the Director-General is competent to relate on this subject to Parliament's proceedings and has all the competences. So that is what Parliament's lawyers assumed: it has all its powers. Mr. Leicega, as far as the House's legal services are concerned, I think they have a sufficiently high prestige and, therefore, we are going... I, of course, have to do what the legal services recommend. Then we'll proceed. Proposal for a special procedure for the single reading of the draft law on the promotion of economic growth and the strengthening of social expenditure and the amendment of Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017 (tried by the urgency procedure) and, where appropriate, debate and vote on the said project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u18	On this proposal we reported that the Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Board, at the meeting on 4 July 2017 agreed to propose to the House plenary the processing of the special procedure for the single reading of this bill, in the light of Article 134.1 of the Rules of Procedure. Before the vote is put to the motion for a single reading procedure, a five-minute round is opened to establish its position by parliamentary groups. We started with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u19	Good morning to all and to all. From the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we oppose the processing of this one-reading bill. First of all, if it is true that the rules of this and other chambers themselves contain this mechanism, it is not less true that their exceptional implicit character, reserved for those matters and questions in which their simplicity or nature advises him. We could be faced with a specific and reduced issue of the procedure of a law with little margin for political decision, or about which there was a consensus, reasons why it would be possible to need or advise this procedure shorter and faster. The judgment of my political force, however, is not so in this case. On the contrary, it is not surprising that the People's Party has already used its absolute majority on recent occasions in the previous legislation to approve in this way legislative amendments and legal texts that transcend with much of the issues that should be treated by single reading. Since the Galician Nationalist Block, we think that, if the beats of the regulation are scrutinised, the democratic and dialogueal will of a government should be much greater or should simply exist and be exemplifying. However, it can be seen that the more votes and Members accumulate, the less will they have. I'm not at all absolutely sure that we won't end this turn of the day without being reminded by the many deputies and most of them who have: most votes, most seats, but also most of the worst default that can have a government, most of them pre-powered. The same prepotency they don't want to listen to, they don't want to listen to anyone. [[Applause]] They didn't want to listen to the metal on strike in these last fifteen days, nor to the firemen, nor to the parents, mothers, students and teachers of multiple centers in the country that will come after, nor to the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics, nor to the area of the Coast of Death, nor to many other collectives who, during the last days of July, went out into the street to protest against a high-powered government that refuses to dialogue and talk. A prepotency that doesn't listen outside or listen inside. Therefore, it is much more comfortable for your lords this single reading procedure. In short, although this procedure of the regulation in hand is regulatory, its use in this case, of course, is not on the basis of democracy. Let us remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that budget is the basis of decisions taken in this Parliament, it is a fundamental pillar to move words to reality and to mark priorities. Therefore, these are political decisions, and applying this procedure is of a fundamental anti-democratic spirit, taking into account the subject matter which we are considering today, which prevents in practice that there is a debate that goes beyond valuations and proposals that will be static compartments of successive parliamentary groups, without which no agreement, no sort of conclusion, no kind of improvement in the text. I also remind you that the regulation itself provides that the only possibility to amend a single reading bill is precisely by presenting a whole amendment with alternative text as this organization has done. Therefore, the procedure itself will not give too much of itself, given how little data you are listening to. I suppose then what we're going to do in this first hour and peak in the morning is what Mr. Feijóo just called "remembering." However, since the Galician Nationalist Block, with absolute sincerity, we have not stopped having the commitment to bring here another vision of parliamentaryism, another vision of political action, and we will take the next turn to assess that this bill really hides this law that you disguise us as economic impulse and social expenditure and that it does not seem at all at all to present alternatives to a budget line that we understand simply leads us to paralysis, to submission to the central government and to the resignation of those who have no real intention of changing the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks and all those collectives to whom you refuse to listen. The Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and the Council of the Union already know that they work as a branch of the Central Government, but of course they will not think that they can convert this Parliament into a branch of San Caetano and that we are voting in favour of this form of processing. Of course, they won't count on our complicity. We refuse to domesticize parliamentary work, domesticize the work of the opposition and empty this Parliament of its functions. We understand that there is no exceptional urgency justified and, therefore, we will not vote in favour of this procedure, which merely hides more prepotence. We're tireless, we'll vote no and we'll continue to present alternatives in this House, although sometimes it gives us the impression that we're talking with a wall. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u21	The single reading procedure restricts the right of minority participation by removing the procedure of debate and voting on amendments in committee. I'm not saying it, teachers Perea, Florencio say it, following Gomez Rumbo, in a Parliamentary Manual that we all have, coordinated by our senior lawyer, and which is, by the way, very good. [[Applause]] It prevents the comings of parliamentary groups; it becomes a game of everything or nothing; it does not adapt to the genius of Parliament's regulation, which in its Article 134 regulates the procedure for single reading. When is it planned?"When the nature of a project advises you or when the simplicity of the formulation permits it." The nature of the project. The studies referred to above indicate that this refers to consensual texts, agreed by the parliamentary groups before their registration in the House, and on which, therefore, there is no encouragement in Parliament to correct its text by amending it. No, there was no consensus because the agreement with the groups was not attempted prior to its registration. The government doesn't have to try that pact. We could do it here, but the way to process this project prevents it. Simplicity. It's also indicated in those studies that it has to be short and very clear text. But there is no simplicity, multiple games, programs, sections and chapters that change. The percentage referred to in the Local Cooperation Fund is changed, transfers to universities. The amounts to be transferred to private entities through educational concerts are reregulated. Plays that didn't exist before are created. It is so complex that the Director General of Budgets — or Director General of Budgets by absence — indicates in his writing that there are eight errors in this House — although there are some more — in that legislative project. Therefore, no consensus or simplicity. It's a traffic with advertising performance, that's what this legislative project is about. Parliament is converted into a mere body of ratification or rejection; there are no killed positions. It is difficult for parliamentary groups to present to the public a dissenting position. So what we ask of this House is that it rejects the use of this special procedure to the Government of Galicia, to the Council of Galicia; that it recovers, let us say, its characteristic as an autonomous body, as a Parliament; and that it rejects to this Parliament its full functions, respecting the speciality of the budgetary procedure, which has a specific chapter in the Rules of Procedure of the House, because precisely the importance of the discussion of the draft budget law — and that is because the amendment substantially — requires that special processing. We call on the People's Group — the other groups, I believe, to agree on this point — to regain parliamentary autonomy and incorporate the ordinary procedure, telling you from our group that we are in favour of getting through urgently, if so desired, but by an ordinary procedure that allows for a delayed discussion and the participation of the groups, respecting the role of Parliament in a bill that is important, because it affects one of the essential functions of this Parliament, which is to approve the budgets governing the life of the Galician Union for a year. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u22	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u23	Good morning. The act we are carrying out today in this House has become a sort of act of death from a basic principle of the best parliamentary practices, because, if you say so, it has already become a common place: the debate on budgets is the most important thing a parliament does every year. The budgetary debate continues for months because of its complexity and relevance and consumes many hours of parliamentary work because, in the end, what we are doing is defining the strategy of economic and social policy that government will develop throughout the exercise. The relevance of what is being debated is reflected in the aphorism that what is not in the budget does not exist. Well, in the counter-lock procedure in which we're going to debate today a law that changes a significant part of revenue and public expenditure, these basic principles are severely consummated. The Government welcomes a single and quick reading process to pass in an hour the amendment of Law 1/2017, bringing to that a supposed emergency situation, but it's not true, because since February this House approved, with the only votes of the People's Party, the accounts for 2017 we all knew that irremediably these accounts had to be modified. The absolute majority of the People's Party approved the 2017 budgets without almost accepting any of the amendments tabled by the three opposition groups, and now imposes a procedural "trade" which once again prevents a real debate in Parliament. We do not agree with this abridged procedure and special treatment of single reading and urgency because it is a distortion of the necessary debate process that a budgetary modification as proposed. We denounce this 'trade' as a procedural one because it means a devaluation of Parliament's functions; it is a contempt for the opposition's parliamentary groups. The formula chosen to process this law prevents the possibility of having a debate by the child, imposing a block accession or proceeding in favour or against, without the possibility of partial amendments, and hiding, by its brevity, the debate to society. Now, we are not faced with a debate of parliamentary legal technique, we are not going to fall into that mistake. What we denounce is the use of legal devices to avoid a real debate on Galician public accounts. Why do you elude a party with an absolute majority of this debate? I suppose there are different answers to this question, but I don't think I have any positive answers. Most likely, the Government wants to reduce public exposure time to this debate in order to hide its evasive and shortcomings, for example, that it approved a single budget five months ago, without admitting any amendment to the opposition and even questioning the relevance of the contributions of the opposition groups, knowing, moreover, that what it was approving had to be changed earlier than later, for example, to conceal the ridicule of the central government of the People's Party to the Tax and Finance Policy Council, which makes autonomous communities — and we, among them — not really participate in the conformation of decisions that mark the large budget figures; for example, to hide that routine and mediocre distribution of new resources shows that the problem is not just a lack of resources, it is also a lack of ideas, because there is nothing to present a clear project with cost priorities. I'm going to put two examples — a nice one — to match the accounts, when the matches have already been assigned, because they assign exactly 15 million euros to making roads in general. That's like the bad accountant who, when they don't match his accounts, invented an accountant concert. But the most painful thing is that in budgetary change there is not a single game for employment policies, and that in our opinion shows that it is not only a resource problem but a problem of lack of ideas. Today's act is intended to give continuity, therefore, to an unacceptable method for the debate on the budget that was set in motion in February, when a law was passed that was already known not to correspond to reality, using for that the knee of the absolute majority; a devalued debate that is aggravated today with the express processing of the imposed amendment of the law and that will continue in the coming days when the absolute majority of the People's Party accepts without requiring the imposition of the expenditure ceiling imposed by Montoro. Parliament and most absolute majority is an oxymorus, they are anti-thetic terms, especially when the party that holds that absolute majority does not highly esteem participation and negotiation and uses that majority as an arian against parliamentary groups. The result is an unacceptable deterioration in the quality of democracy, a weakening of Parliament, which, in the end, inevitably turns to a deterioration in the citizenship of the system of representation itself. I am finished with four questions: what does the People's Parliamentary Group need to use that order and command? Why does it not accept a serious and time-consuming debate on the budget? Why do you impose a "tragal" procedure by means of a single read-only short route in emergency procedure? And the last one: why don't you take this chapuza away and bring to this House a real budgetary change, and then go along with a procedure that will allow this House to regain its dignity?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u24	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after contributing to the debate of the Socialist spokesperson, it is the fourth time that debate is being held between spokespersons at the Speaker's Board, the question of whether this law should be dealt with by the single reading procedure or not. It's a procedure that the Government is asking for, and it bases it on two arguments which most seem highly reasonable. The first is that the incorporation of this money, of this EUR 230 million, into the budget prevents any problem of compliance with the expenditure ceiling rule; therefore, the alternative would be that these funds that will be given to the Autonomous Community could not be spent for the purposes that we will then debate what the Government has decided. So you, who always ask that social spending increase, should be aware that, not incorporating it into budget, would imply that you cannot spend it. But there's a second reason that has to do with the height of the year we're in and the execution of these funds. Obviously, if we delay through an ordinary procedure, which can take two months, even if it is by urgency and a few months and a half, we would obviously be making it extremely difficult for the execution of a expenditure which, as we will see later, is basically social. This request by the Government is therefore plausible to us, and it is given the circumstance that it is not only plausible but it is clearly evaluated by the House's Juridical Services, which, in this case, by the subtlety of the tide, have produced a written report recalling the background used by all governments for the single reading process. And in the background, the single reading procedure is a parliamentary procedure that is perfectly comparable to others, because first it has publicity. The law was published, there was time to meet her. Secondly, there is a right of amendment, two groups have made constructive amendments, one has simply made a destructive amendment, of return. And thirdly, there is debate, which is what we hope to have next, because most will support the processing by the single reading procedure. What is true is that even if it's a single-day debate, after the rule has publicity, there's a right to amend and we have a debate between ourselves, this wasn't common in this House. And I would like to remind you that this change in budgets that increases public spending by 2.5 over the total expenditure approved by the House in February has precedents, has background. I have here, for example, a reminder: in 2007 the Council of Galicia, there was exactly a decade ago — it ruled the left, ruled the Socialist Party, ruled the Bloc and its spokesmen were members of this House, received from the state, as a result of positive liquidations, 404 million euros. What did the Bipartite do then? It is understood, according to what we have just heard, that, with regard to the House, with regard to the opposition party, it would open a procedure for reforming the Regular Budgets Act, with deadlines for amendment, etc. What did he do? Well, he didn't. What he did was an appearance, along with the councillor of Fairy, to report on the current situation of the Greek economy, and the review of the growth forecast for 2007 was in April 2007, where he said that, as he had more money, they would spend more, without there being a right of amendment or right of anything. I would therefore ask them to measure themselves, because when it comes to pre-eminence, Parliament is a branch of government or the basic principles of parliamentaryism are being violated, when we are just going to debate a legal document, published and amended, because it seems to me to be a bit excessive. Thirdly, it is also not bad that we are through the procedure of single reading and urgency by the very dynamics of parliamentary work. You know that we are going to start the debate on the expenditure ceiling shortly; a debate which, Mr Lago, the only autonomous chamber of the state that has it in Parliament is Galicia; the other autonomous communities send it from the Government to the State. I'm telling you in advance that you're already saying that we're a branch again and so on. The only autonomous chamber in which the United We Can, the Tides or a group like theirs will be able to object something to the ceiling of expenditure is just this one, the others don't meet for this matter. [[Applause]] To lead this debate through an ordinary procedure with the next year's debate, and to make it difficult for us to run these funds, we find it totally inappropriate. And there's a reflection of what you intend to do by hindering, by making almost parliamentary filibusterism of the procedure we are going to celebrate today. What you want is to see the debate, you, if you vote as you do not, prevent the advisor from presenting the project and we can debate its amendments. We're looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u26	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Having concluded this debate, we shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal for a procedure for the single reading of the draft law. We closed the doors and put this proposal to the vote. We vote. Vote for the Proposal for a Special Procedure for the Single Reading of the Draft Law on the encouragement of economic growth and strengthening of social expenditure and amending Law 1/2017 of 8 February 2017 on general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017 (transmitted by the urgency procedure) and, where appropriate, debate and vote on the said project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The proposal for a single reading procedure for this bill is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u27	We have adopted this procedure, and we are starting with the debate itself, which is the debate and the vote on the single reading procedure of the draft law. Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for the bill's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today, I present to the House the draft law on impulse to economic growth and strengthening social expenditure and amending the General Budgets Act of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. This initiative will enable three fundamental objectives to be met: to consolidate the growth of our economy, so that Galicia continues to grow vigorously, and that this translates into more and better employment; to strengthen social spending, because the priority of this government remains that the Greeks have maximized their well-being; and, thirdly, that public employees can see their wages increased by 1%, retroactively since January this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is registering in 2017 the third consecutive year of strong and sustained economic growth. In 2014 we managed to leave the recession behind and in 2015 and 2016 the Greek economy has already achieved significant growth, above 3%. This has had a positive effect on our priority: job creation. Over the past two years, more than 40,000 new jobs have been created in Galicia. And in 2017, the data we're familiar with are strengthening this trend and improving the prudent predictions we're pointing to in the budgets. The German GDP continues to grow sharply, around 3%. The unemployment rate has dropped in the last month almost 10,000 people, the third largest fall among the autonomous communities. Home consumption continues to grow forcefully and Galicia is one of the communities where retail trade sales grow the most; in fact, homes that come with difficulties at the end of the month are at least in the historical series. Greek exports continue in historical figures, thanks to the good behavior of sectors such as naval, textile or automotive. And we maintain control of our deficit, our debt and our payments, to consolidate a model of healthy growth. This law allows the availability of nearly 230 million euros more this year to strengthen the priorities already defined in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. I would like to clarify that these 228 million that include this law are resources that Galicia is going to receive this year in addition to the system of self-financing, and that were not incorporated in December, when we presented the board budget for this 2017, because we were not sure they were going to be received. The reason was that the Board's accounts were approved by this Parliament in February, while, on the contrary, the State budgets were not approved until two weeks ago. We act with responsibility before, we approve our budgets without waiting for those of the state, but we do not include these resources because we are not sure of receiving them, and we act with responsibility now. Once confirmed that we are going to receive these additional resources, we pass a law with the greatest possible agility. I would also like to point out that we receive this EUR 230 million for the improvement of the Spanish and Greek economy, which is being translated into an increase in tax collection, which is mainly linked to the labour market and consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now refer to how we share these new resources in this law. First of all, we spend 73 million euros more on staff costs. In this block we raise the 1% salary for all workers who provide public services in the Union, including health, education staff, universities and concerted education, more than 100,000 people. This salary, the maximum that the State allows us, because it is basic regulations of obligation, was already provided for in the budget of the Union, but it could not be applied until there was legal authorization from the State. So we applied it as soon as we could. And I can also confirm that in the July payroll, public employees will already notice this increase, which will be retroactive since January. With this rise and the recovery of the specific supplement, in 2017 public employees will receive an average of €1,430 this year. Secondly, we are devoting EUR 102 million more to strengthening social spending, with concrete measures in health care, social policy and dependence. We'll act mainly in two ways. The first, health care, with 60 million priorities for universalizing hepatitis C drugs, which can be extended to about 2,000 people in the rest of the year. In addition, Sergas has sufficient resources for the purchase of vaccines that were incorporated into the children's calendar and to increase the influenza vaccines by 20,000, with which the coverage will be expanded in the next season. We will also invest in humanization, in this case of aid spaces in our hospitals and health centres, and strengthen surgical and care activities in the Greek health centres. And secondly, within this social policy, in the most specific of social policy, with an additional budget of 14 million euros. We'll have 10 million euros to meet more than 3,000 new dependents, which will keep service coverage above the state average. In social inclusion we activate 4 million to give a new boost to Risk, which will benefit more than 1,000 people at risk of exclusion. In addition, the Union will have another EUR 11 million for which programmes of general interest will be carried out to meet social interest ends from the tax allocation of the IRPF. In the labour market, we will devote EUR 5 million to the development of employment and training plans, which will increase opportunities in two priority areas: rural employment, as we will complete the entrepreneurship and training programmes in this area, and employment for people at risk of exclusion; and programmes as they will be targeted at more disadvantaged groups, which will benefit people at the moment who perceive the risk. And in the third big block of application of these credits we intend to devote EUR 53 million more to promoting economic growth policies that develop and fit into the master lines designed in our Strategic Plan up to 2020. In education we reserve 11 million euros dedicated to R & D projects in public universities, improvements in education centres, reform, equipment in vocational training centres, progress in the plurilingualism plan put in place by the Welsh Administration and we will promote the development of the digital book. Another 3 million euros are for innovation, in a talent bet, new technologies and Industry 4.0, with special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, we have allocated another 2 million euros to Reform 17, to dynamize the German business fabric, which in recent years is helping to revitalize the construction and reform sector. For tourism we have reached 3 million for actions for the empowerment and promotion of a sector that is being consolidated as an engine for economic recovery and in which Galicia is reaching record numbers of visitors. Therefore, we will enhance Galicia's presence at international tourist fairs and work in promotional actions of the destination of new tourist products. In the area of infrastructure, we spend 19 million euros both for the improvement of the road network and for its conservation and also for industrial land operations. In addition, we include a specific game for Lugo's auditorium. And this law will contribute with an additional 4 million euros to put in place the new Galaga Forest Industry Agency, which has the challenge of improving the quality of life in the rural environment, dynamizing a key sector for the Greek economy by increasing the number of businesses and ultimately creating new and better jobs. In addition, in rural areas we activate another 5 million to accelerate pioneering projects in the field of land mobility and to strengthen fire prevention policies, especially in the border area with Portugal. And in the maritime area we include parts for the construction of trousers for mexillary boats from various ports. Finally, we also collect very specific games in this law: 600,000 euros to help overcome the situation of the Galician community living in Venezuela. So nearly 230 million euros, which will increase staff spending, strengthen social spending and strengthen healthy growth. Finally, actions contributing to the consolidation of Galicia's economic recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this month we are planning to bring to the House the non-financial expenditure ceiling for 2018, at which point we will take advantage to update the macroeconomic framework, as the central government has just done with the presentation of its expenditure ceiling. As I said at the beginning, in 2017, the data we're familiar with are broadly improving the prudent forecasts that we're pointing to in our budget. Without a doubt, the measures included in this bill of impulse to economic growth and social expenditure reinforcement will help to consolidate this economic improvement. So I can move on with the presentation of the expenditure ceiling for 2018 we will carry out a strong review at the height of the forecast of 2.4% growth for this year and we will move to 3% growth and, consequently, to the improvement of job parameters. In this way, we linked three consecutive years with strong economic growth, which even exceeds the evolution envisaged in the Strategic Plan 2015-2020. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, calling for the support of the House's parliamentary groups for a law that will allow the salaries of all the public employees of the Galician Union to be raised, which will boost economic growth and reinforce the spending on the well-being of the Greeks. To that end, we increased our budget by EUR 228 million and included concrete actions in the priority areas of social and economic issues, in line with the collection in our Strategic Plan. As soon as this law is passed, since June we will make available these 230 million euros of additional resources to the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u29	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u30	Good day to all of you again. Since the Galician Nationalist Block today, we have tabled a complete amendment to this project, which will certainly be approved today. With this alternative proposal, we intend to amend not only the forms, but also the substance of what is needed today and to demonstrate that another economic policy and a truly social policy is possible that helps to overcome the inequalities that exist in our country. As a matter of precedent, to make it clear that from the outset the very name of the bill we are discussing today is a real perversion. His leadership speaks to us of "strengthening and strengthening of social expenditure" and "modification of the 2017 Budget Act". In three statements, two falsehoods. We can only agree with the latter part, because indeed, if we modify the Budget Law; now well, we disagree with the true self-comprehensibility that this executive exercises by calling this project "impulsive to the growth and reinforcement of social expenditure", as I shall explain. We have, I say, presented this alternative for a number of reasons. First of all, this project, its presentation, reveals three major problems that deeply concern us. First of all, that the strategy of the German Government continues to be the most publicity to cover the central government's cuts and its submission to Madrid's mandates. Secondly, it also reveals that our country's financing model is not enough to support our basic services. And thirdly, because it also shows another worrying issue, which is that they haven't made a good budget planning for 2017 and they've been short in fundamental fields; neither with this remedy can these budgets be used to place our country in a position of strength in the challenges of the future nor to match all the Greeks and the Greeks. Going in parts, first of all, why do we say yours is the marketing strategy, Mr. Martínez? I remind you that you came here three months ago to present to us the lines of your advice, and that fact coincided over time with two embarrassing events: first, with the presentation of the draft of the budgets in the State, where Galicia for the first time in fourteen years received an investment less than one billion euros, and second, with the visit — which you will remember — of Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría to our country to sell us the goodness of an additional revenue of 247 million to conceal a little the aggravation of the Spanish State and save some furniture to you. We were critical of this visit then, and we complained that it was a more distracting strategy to put smoke over the "cut-off" and that while Rajoy announced more investments in Catalonia, Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría came to give us an alms to our country. And we were right. The proof that Mrs. Santamaría came only to make a strategy of improvisation and publicity is that they didn't even — they were so fast — they got their accounts right. They announced that by means of performance concepts of certain 2017 taxes and the final settlement of the 2015 financing system we would receive 247 million, and ultimately they would not match the accounts. And what makes me absolutely foolish, Mr. Martínez, is that you come to say that this is an extra income and that it has nothing to do with the financing model. Of course, it has to do with the financing model, with the 2015 settlement, plus the performance updates of the taxes handed over for this year. If it's 218 or 228 million it doesn't have to do with the financing model, then at last. As I say, moreover, we're talking about an increase, and they've already tried to deceive the Greeks and the Greeks by saying that it was additional, as if it were something that didn't fit us, and also not too favourable, considering that they didn't get to that average 5.7% increase that would mean for other communities like Catalonia, Valencia, Andalusia, etc. As always, Galicia to the bottom and the People's Party's Government applauding with their ears. In short, Galicia, a community that, besides, as you always assume, meets all deficit taxes, receives part of what belongs to it, and we have to assume and applaud that played the lottery. But at the end of the day, why do we think that this model and this political framework are insufficient? For it has been shown that neither the financing model nor the terms of our financial relationship with the Spanish State are for Galicia to develop its potential and meet its needs. For example, this procedure, derived from the absence of the general budget of the State at the time of handling the budgets of the Galician Union, does not fail to show that dependence when we can draw up from Galicia an own budgetary policy with regard to the central government and the political situation at the state level. This dependence has, firstly, prevented these funds from being used in the realization of the Greek budgets, so that now there is a need for a remedy that obviously remains effective, from our point of view, for public expenditure. Moreover, this issue is again a clear example of how the relationship and the current system of political decentralization envisages the economic sphere more as an administrative decentralization than as a political subject with its own ability to decide and execute its decisions. With this formulation, we are given this theory that we have the right to develop pillars as fundamental to our society as are teaching and health, which have already emerged from this debate, but we are prevented by the practice that they can successfully develop these competencies. And we understand that this is not acceptable in this context of social emergency, where resources are totally insufficient to provide services which, in addition to in a context of economic crisis, have increased their case, as is, for example, all of those referred to in social services. However, in view of this adverse context, what is the relationship and courtesy of the Spanish State to us? Because since 2008 Galicia has no longer received more than EUR 9 billion, a figure similar to the annual budget of the Union, and it is also conditioned by a political and financial framework in which while the spending of autonomous communities is strongly committed — the deficit ceiling for 2018 will now be approved in the Spanish State — while we have these absolutely ironic guidelines, because the Administration can absorb the resources it has to spend on it and the resources it has to spend on it. They will still want us to thank Papa Madrid for the slight enlargement of the margin to the autonomous communities after this. Of course, for the Galego Nationalist Block these issues do not fit into any concept of solidarity that we share. Thirdly — this question I shall try to stop a little more — from the Galician Nationalist Block we believe that this bill reveals that its budget project, the People's Party's budgetary project, is again — one shows more — an absolute lack of planning and not knowing how to place the priorities that our country has at the moment. I will make some consideration, in addition to presenting some of the alternatives that we have broken down in this amendment to the whole as the only way to amend this text, as has already been said in the previous debate. First, the fact that budgeting in elementary areas is reinforced is the implicit recognition that they were scarcely endowed, as we denounce the opposition forces in the 2017 budget debate. You've budgeted low social spending and now there's nothing left to increase. In addition, in this context of social mobilizations and contestatory mobilizations, it is very good for them to make some publicity that they increase resources precisely in these areas. But on the other hand, there was irresponsibility! would there be irresponsibility to infringe these areas in our budgets in the face of the uncertainty of the state framework that we depend on! because what would have happened if this money injection could not come at this time? And, on the other hand, as we have said, with this element they don't stop applying that makeup tactic that is so well given to them but that we don't buy them. For example, you spoke a lot, Mr. Martínez, in his speech, about the question of the workers and public workers of our community, which we are very concerned about, but despite the 1% increase that contemplates this law, because it is obvious that they have not yet reached the level of pay after the cuts in wages to which they have been subjected. It's very good that if you increase that 1%, it's very good that you take advantage of it to do, once again, advertising, but, of course, these workers and workers know from your pocket, that your effort has not yet been compensated and that they still have a lot of pay rights to regain. Another issue that we see from an absolutely critical point of view from the Galician Nationalist Block and which has to do with trying to sell with that make-up of hypersocial budgets this proposal that we are debating today is what has to do with teaching. On the one hand, you are dedicated to working through the back door, and in the last weeks of the course in that strategy that we have already been characterized as a new offensive — more disguised — against public education. They have the nerve, with which you are falling, and considering that you have nothing else left that the Counsellor is coming to attend this afternoon too to deal with this issue, and in this context they decide that your strong bet on this proposed budget modification is an injection of more than two million euros for private education, because we are only in a month in which you last day of classes decided to close ESO units, they decided to close centers and so on. It's not even camouflaged. Today they're going to be up there, out there, parents, mothers and teachers from various schools, and I hope you can explain how this justifies. They have the shame of looking at them face-to-face and saying that they prefer to vote a million and a half for the concert rather than approve the proposal that the Nationalist Block brings here today, which has two fundamental issues: on one side, we propose a plan for reversing the closure of public centers, endowed with more than 2 million euros, and on the other hand, a specific plan for teaching rural and mountain, which is what you are dismantling in a more aggressive way. [[Applause]] These are our priorities, public education and Greek for all children, regardless of where Galicia lives, because it is a basic right that we have to guarantee from the public power. We have also increased the counties for linguistic normalization, which for you are a mere 200,000 euros-face wash, and we have also increased the promotion and cultural dissemination activities, because we believe in a country with creative power and in a country with creative power from the Greek language. On the other hand, when it comes to health, you apply a strategy similar to that applied to teaching. You pretended to bet on public health, but you're also spending millions and a half on concerts to reduce waiting lists. Do you know what we propose to reduce it? Well, I want money, instead of private concerts, to hire health personnel. We propose that you allocate more than three million euros. You spoke of humanization of the health system. So what better humanization than providing it with humans, than providing it with human beings, doctors, nurses, and people who work to support this public health? I pretend, I insist, that these are social budgets. I can only say it's marketing. One clarifier example is that you, the same government, who didn't have a month after approving the budgets, had to change them to cover the risk, because they wouldn't do it, sell us an extension of four million euros. It would be very good, if we didn't all know that Risk is something that you have to comply with by law, and that, therefore, regardless of what content is needed, you will have to assume that increase. In any case, we understand that, given that we've already had to increase in what we've been doing over five million years, this county doesn't come up and we propose at least double it. Finally, precisely to make our bet visible for a shift towards productive tissue, we also bet on increasing this Principle plan and bet on research and development. It is a pity that even last week your parliamentary group, Mr. Martínez, had rejected a proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block to double the budgets for the coming year for this matter. We ask you to pay attention to Mr Carracedo, who came to a committee yesterday in this Parliament, and we do our words. He said yesterday in this House — and I read textually —: "If I was in the administration, half the money would go to the retention and collection of talent, because a well-selected researcher is a wealth to any place; it is the basis of the development of countries." Continuing and to finish, I didn't want to waste my time without marking two elements that we included in our amendment to the whole and that we understand that they are absolutely fundamental because they are elements about which, unfortunately, we will have to continue to talk these months and about which, unfortunately, the Government of Greece does not bet rigorously. First of all, we've increased six times the amount for the fires. Look, Mr. Martínez, you were now talking about taking care of the cross-border area. Do you know what the risk of daily fire today in that cross-border area of municipalities like The Mosque today? More than 80%. While here, outside this Parliament, we need to put on a jacket, in which places we are at 80 percent risk; in the same province where prevention is still being done on tomorrow's schedule with the Council of Galicia, which has failed to fulfil its duties and which has not previously done prevention, in the same province where we have requested a specific plan and we are not given and approved by us a full-time Plagiarism scam already at risk of fires. They take that policy seriously, they give it money money. And finally, we've also assigned a specific counties of five million to another concern that our political organization will not abandon. And from here we launched a message to all of Ourenses, south of Lugo and all of the people and small and medium-sized companies that were affected by frost. We will not stop until this government prompts and establishes direct aid for its damage. The administration has political capacity, it has resources, also in that Continence Fund, which then in the Spanish state uses it for other things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u32	...and, therefore, you have to make them available. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, yet this weekend the Limia suffered tremendously from the consequences of the pedisco. They can't continue with their pre-legislative power by approving such changes as these without giving in and without talking to people and seeing what their needs are, making mere propaganda. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u34	Good morning again. Now we'll talk about the content of the bill, to which we also present an amendment to the whole of it with alternative text. In order to understand our position, I believe that we must revert to the debate of the 2017 Budget Act. In the initial debate of that law we then said that budgets were scarce, that they did not use all the authorized indebtedness capacity and that they did not provide for the increases resulting from the financing system, despite the behaviour of the economy. In addition, they led to greater adjustment than they allowed economic circumstances, a containment of spending that was far greater than social needs or an impulse to growth. In the final debate of that document, we said that the budget was full of imperfections, that it would be subject to changes over the year, already planned for that time, and that it was made to go wrong. We warned that it was difficult to seriously evaluate some chapters such as staff, because the figures did not seem to respond to the spending needs that the Administration had already had and had to cover. Therefore, lack of ambition, continuity and, let's say, an excessive resource for marketing were the qualities of that budget. So what we have to ask ourselves is whether those circumstances are corrected by this bill. The Galician Union I believe it now recognizes, at least partially, that there was some reason we had when we warned of its lack of budgetary ambition — which is the same as saying a lack of political ambition — or when we warned of the insufficiency of some expenditure, specifically in chapter 1 and in social expenditure. They're partially correct, which is fine, but they're far from the necessary change. We believe that, without doing great experiments, they could perfectly incorporate more than four hundred million euros into resources at this point, instead of the 228 of their project, without jeopardizing financial stability. They could use the 60 million — as we have already talked about in this House — of net financial liabilities authorized by the Tax and Financial Policy Council for 2017 without compromising Galicia's financial sustainability, because these resources do not compromise it. Maximum when their interest rate cost is extremely low when using the Financial Facility, and maximum when a new funding system is being discussed, or there is a debate in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council on the distribution of the deficit and the debt between levels of the Administration. Renouncing using the authorized head of indebtedness when it is reasonably assumed of financial health, does not make much sense at the same time that it is being discussed in these forums that we want more resources; the truth is it's a bit strange strategy. We've also incorporated other revenue items that are having a higher performance than expected as you well know — certainly much better than I am — than the position you occupy. The difference between recognized rights and final forecasts, for example in successions and prayers, on 31 March this year was more than 60 million euros. On 31 March this year, not on 31 December! We'll see later. So there's some margin there, and we believe that these margins allow us to reach up to EUR 400-410 million and, therefore, be more ambitious in revenue without modifying the tax pressure, which allows us to feed the necessary expenses. And I'm going to talk about expenses. The Galician Union project targets 73 million euros — seventy-four million euros, approximately 1/3 of the total — to increase the staff chapter. The councillor says it's to comply with what comes from the 2017 State General Budgets Act, which allows, authorizes and obliges a 1% increase in public employees' salaries. So it's thanks to you, and to us it looks good, we have to do it. However, 1% of consolidated credit is 36 million, according to budget figures. We can add another two million to the Greek university system, about. So we still have to justify, from 71, more than 30 million extra. We would like to know where that need comes from of additional EUR 33 million and what they will be used for. Does it respond to an insufficiency of the initial credits now being corrected? Do you want to create the councillor of Fairy a margin of manoeuvre by releasing resources from the Sergas Continent Fund, for example, that were previously intended to meet wage requirements? What's going on there? Let's not amend this. We're not going to reduce the credits for this, we're asking for an explanation. And we also say from here that, if we don't talk about it, we consider that they can and should be used to strengthen basic service staff frames with stable contracts, combating precariousness and encouraging the necessary improvement of public services. Just in our amendment to the whole, we reinforce that possibility with more resources. We do not like that, at the same time as we are discussing in this House the amendment of a draft budget law, we have known — it was published yesterday, we have known yesterday — an order from the Council, in the form of payrolls, to incorporate the 1% increase prior to this bill being approved by this Parliament. Because either the project was not necessary, and then we could avoid most of this process, or, if it is, you can't at the same time be doing administrative acts that anticipate a result that, of course, does not compromise us, but that it does seem to compromise the People's Group, which is bound to be more than ever to vote in favour, although some things don't like it. We don't like changes in the Local Cooperation Fund either. A percentage was approved for 2017, now this percentage is reduced to prevent the increments in the collection that are incorporated into chapters 1, 2 and 3 give rise to more resources being transferred to the municipalities. But it was better to try it before and not commit to a percentage and then reduce it because it turns out that the accounts don't work out too well. Nor do we like to change the ratio between the basic fund and the supplementary fund of the Local Cooperation Fund. So in our amendment, what we do is we increase the use of the basic fund to balance the ratios between the two and prevent the additional resources — less than those envisaged — from going to the Town Councils to a fund that has a more discretionary use, let's say, less regular, less subject to criteria; a use that allows a nesgo and directs it to specific municipalities and not to the whole of the Town Councils. In the reinforcement of social spending, which is another of the Union's slogans, there's some correction in concepts that deserve it, but insufficient correction. Let me give you an example. He spoke of the Venezuelan immigration aid councilman. It's true, we brought this problem here, and other groups. We brought up this problem because we think we have to give him a solution. But it's up to €150,000. That's ridiculous. We in our amendment incorporate 4 million extra euros for this; we multiply by 25 — a little more than 25 — the credits that compromise the Galician Union. At the risk — it has been dealt with — 4 million euros and 2 million euros more for the use of Risk, which seems to us to be a good initiative. But in our amendment we have added 20 million euros, which would mean making a very important leap forward in resources for families with less income and in situations of greater need. Dependencies too. Together it proposes 10 million euros. We propose 30. This will allow us to really solve the waiting lists and keep us up to date with the dependents, which good failure does. They suffered during the season of adjustment. We give them satisfaction at the time of recovery. We greatly strengthen in investments the residential construction program, as we raised the President of the Union the other day in our question, in children's schools and other social equipment; we strengthen the matches for school dining rooms towards the next course, or in the infrastructures in educational centers. And, above all, we apply an important game for people with children under the age of 6 and insufficient resources that would allow each child to receive between 100 and 200 euros a month depending on the circumstances, and it would mean jumping forward to that idea of giving help to all families with children under the budget of the Galician Union. It could be an autonomic IRPF bonus, the autonomic part of the IRPF, but there are too many families without resources that don't even have to make the statement, so we seemed better at instrumenting it this way, moving forward in building a basic social income. [[Applause]] In health matters, it is good that the Council of Galicia rectifies and universalizes the treatments of hepatitis C; it seems to us well. If there are criminal responsibilities, this effort does not prevent them, but gives peace to the sick and their families, gives peace to the potentially ill population, which we are all practically all. It's good for us. Even if it's late, it looks good. But the rest of the games are insufficiently reinforced, and we need something else to recover the levels of public health service. In our amendment we dedicate 5 million euros to strengthening staff in primary and specialized care. The Galician Union only proposes EUR 1.5 million but for health concerts, i.e., to strengthen the privatization of health care when it would be possible to do so from the public level and certainly in better conditions for all. And we are going to spend several million euros — I think that 5 — to health centres and other health equipment, which are well needed in some cases construction, in other cases reforms and in other cases incorporating new possibilities for care in certain places. In economic growth, Counselor, you will have to recognize me that we speak of pure propaganda, pure propaganda! It's a pure chest of tailors, where it's collected without the necessary strategy or planning, with insufficient credit — cover holes—, an unmatched and sometimes contemporary set of scattered performances that are grouped under a section that stays well but that there's nothing behind it. You're married. It includes more funds, for example, in economic growth for campaigns of linguistic normalization. We feel good about these campaigns, but what does it have to do with economic growth? A new interior reform program. Well, tell us what this is. That's also in games of economic growth. It's a new program, so there's no memory to explain it, we have the right to know what's behind it. And why extemporaneous? Fire prevention receives an additional 2 million euros. You know that we have been critical of the lack of this policy very recently. Corrigendum is fine. After listening to the director general of Montes, we know that it's not just a resource problem, it's, above all, a problem of political will. It cannot be said — and to remain the general director — that if the law is complied with there would be many fewer fires when the enforcement of the law depends essentially on one. But that's another subject. [[Applause]] In any case, with resources matters are better solved, so we, where you put 2 million euros, say you have to put 8 more, in total 10, to agree with the municipalities that have innovative policies, to help them all make prevention policies that defend our forest wealth. But doing so from September on, from October on, in any case, is a game that will make sense for next year's fire campaign. And in economic growth our share is planning infrastructure actions that we name and name; not 15 million at random, but 30 million euros — parts with names and surnames that I can't stop relating but that are — in several neglected infrastructures in recent years. And we aim at actions and programmes to support productive sectors, R & D+i reinforcement and employment promotion, approximately EUR 75 million. Here, there are splits in a growth support strategy and employment support strategy. Last but not least, we spent 6 million extra euros on improving public transport services. We're on a strike today that, despite everyone's efforts, threatens to win. And we know that it is not basically a problem of resources, it is also a problem of political will, in this case of negotiating will, of knowing how to give in to matters that do not affect the fundamental to advance the modernisation of the system of passenger transport in Galicia. But with some extra euros these negotiations can get lubricated, they can get better. That is why we are strongly reminded that, when you have 228 million euros, no attention is paid to this serious problem, no additional euro is allocated to this issue. It's as if the advisor wanted to show the world that he's capable of ordering the transport system and also saving resources. It's not a matter of legitimate pride for one person or another, it's about solving a problem, and to do it better we put 6 million extra euros. For all these reasons we are going to oppose this project, for very important reasons. Otherwise, with another processing, there would be an opportunity to discuss some things, to incorporate some amendments, but not like that, it's a treat, as it was said before. And for serious problems too, because, in addition to being possible another policy, it's convenient; it's possible and it's convenient. The policy that we propose in our amendment, which incorporates the correction proposed by the Council of Galicia basically, but leads there as far as possible, without paying attention to financial stability, a different policy that relieves the burden on families with lower resources, substantially increases social and health expenditure and articulates a strategy for economic growth and progress. By the way, if you support our amendment to the whole, you can resolve the incorporation of the amendments proposed by the Director General. Otherwise there's gonna be trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u35	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u36	Counselor, the world must see differently when you travel in the official car or when you go on a bus when there's no strike. Because, how can the economy manager of a democratic government assume from a country that has 217,100 people in unemployment? How can a government in which 30% of its population is at risk of social exclusion be presumed to be economically managed? How can a government claim to have 75,000 homes, where about 200,000 people live in this country, where all the people who live there are unemployed? How can a government assume that it has 35,000 homes without income, no salary, no pension, no unemployment benefit? That's not the image of a fair country and that can't be presumed, Counselor. [[Applause]] It has to do with the history of the country, but it has to do with its policy, because today in Galicia there are 136,700 jobs less than when you started ruling, and there are 57,000 more unemployed. Even three years of recovery the level of employment remains below what was at the time of the great recession. The responsibility of the Government, of its budgetary policy, because the destruction of employment in Galicia at this time was 12%, while on average it was 4%. In Galicia, he was destroyed in the crisis three times more jobs than in the middle of the state, and he's in charge. Galicia is the autonomous community, Counsellor, which has lost most of the 17 communities that make up the Spanish State from 2009 to 2017. Unemployment has grown in Galicia six times as much as in the middle of the state, so that we are the autonomous community in which unemployment has grown most among the 17th that make up the Spanish State. In Galicia there are 90,000 people who have been unemployed for more than two years, while in 2009, when you arrived at the Government, there were 22,000. That is, the very long-term unemployed, the excluded from the system, today multiply four times, four times!, the ones that were when you came to rule. I will finish this brief balance, Counselor. How can you explain that Galicia is the autonomous community of the state with the worst work evolution among the 17 communities of the state? It's not that we're among the worst, but that we're the worst, the worst, the most job that's destroyed, the most unemployment, the most job lost in industry and in the primary sector. What is the explanation of this Greek anomaly, Counselor? Faced with this growing social reality, the People's Party counters the change in GDP. Faced with all of this, 3% of GDP. But that's also a fallacy, because it's true that GDP grows, but it does so despite the economic policy of the People's Party. It is radically false that economic recovery is due to its policy. It's not true that the return to positive rates of GDP change is due to the economic policy applied by the PP, it's quite the opposite. What is responsible for the policy of cuts in public expenditure and wage devaluation is that the crisis was so long and had such severe effects. That the growing economy is normal, it's usual, it's what happened in 45 of the 48 years since 1961 -- in the dictatorship still -- until 2008. At that time, the average GDP rate in 48 years of the Greek economy is 3%, exactly the same rate as we have today. So what we have to explain is not that we grew by 3%, which is the historical average of the Greek economy, what we have to explain is why the recession lasted so long. Why we've had the very long recessive cycle since statistics exist. Especially because there are other territories that left the big recession in 2010. The Greek economy is out of recession, but the Greek society is still in crisis, Counselor. The growth of GDP is necessary and positive, but at all that means that the crisis had stayed behind. That can only be said when we regain the level of employment, the living conditions and the work we had before we fell into the pit of the great recession. And for that there is a lot left, because Galicia is today a country that is more unfair, more unequal, more poor, with less social benefits, less labour rights, with worse public services, with less employment, less unemployment, with lower wages and greater job insecurity than in 2008. Because the exit of the recession is taking place through the path of inequality and precariousness; work, but social as well. Counsellor, the Feijóo Government has the worst economic balance in 35 years of autonomy. Under his mandate, the Greek economy has been in recession for four years and two years in stagnation, so that from 2008 to 2014 we have suffered the longest and hardest recessive cycle since statistics exist. The recession was more intense here, and recovery, on the other hand, is getting weaker. We've fallen further and now we've grown less, so since 2009, the Greek economy has lost two points compared to the Spanish average. To finish this part of the economic context analysis, I wanted to tell you about the conclusion of one of the most prestigious reports in the Spanish economy, which is the Banco de España's annual report. On this page — I do not think it will — 55, 56 and 57 of the annual report, the study service of the Banco de España quantifies the effects of the so-called transitional factors on the recent evolution of the Spanish economy. These factors, although colloquially known as glue winds, are the fall in the price of oil, the ECB's expansive monetary policy and the relaxation of fiscal policy. According to the Banco de España report, these factors had a positive impact on GDP of 2.2 points in 2016. That is, the external factors: oil, the ECB, fiscal policy, are responsible for 70% of that 3% of the increase in GDP than you and the People's Party assume. Therefore, it was not the policy of cutting and devaluation wages that drives growth, are the external factors of the Spanish economy, of the Greek economy, which explains 70% of that increase, and the Bank of Spain says it: transitional factors. I will not accept that our proposal is a destructive proposal. What we don't do is assume the People's Party's speech or the people's budget logic. What we are presenting is a refund amendment to start a debate from scratch, because this budget does not need a partial amendment, the economy of this country cannot be solved by changing small figures of expenditure policy. We do not accept that logic, we are against this model of economic policy. We want an alternative economic policy, and we are against this budget not only by the procedure but also by its background. We said that we are against the method used because it distorts what should be a serious and rigorous exercise to understand the elaboration of a budget as a complete document defining the strategies for the development of the country. Together has renounced this exercise, and even exercising its self-government capacity, to limit itself to acting as an accounting manager who merely fits the figures decided by the Central Government. The ridicule that the People's Party's Government makes of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council leads to the decision of the large figures. It comes with the expenditure ceiling, the deficit figure, and also the income defined by the advances as the central government decides them. What's left of the Galician Union, what's left of your team building budgets? Then set up the puzzle and decide where to crop when you don't get this income. And the amendment that incorporates the bill that is now being discussed to partially amend the budget is more of the same. The central government decides for itself to modify the figures of the autonomous financial system, which leads to this increase of 228 million euros that will receive the Galician Union. This revenue review demonstrates the inconsistencies of the Galician Union, its lack of rigour in the drafting of budgets, because when most of the People's Party approved it in February 2017 it was already known that they were ill-founded. Here are the minutes of the session to show that we have already warned them that the income estimate was wrong and that sooner or later they would have to come to this House to modify them. For here they are, recognizing that the income was actually underestimated, because the estimate made by the Galician Union and which voted in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group did not correspond to reality. They already knew, or at least knew the advisor of Doing, but still, this House approved some budgets that were inevitably to be modified. Why? For two reasons. The first — something has been said by her advisor — has to do with the parliamentary technique, because the corses, the shirts of force, limit the capacity of self-government and mark limits and procedures in the evaluation of budgets that they even require, Mr Counsellor, to use hypotheses even if they are known to be false. But even worse is the second reason. In recent years, I have developed a delicate budget technique, which aims to strengthen austerity and give arguments to cut public spending. In the process of a reduction of the public, a reduction of the state, artimagins are used as the aprioristic fixation of a premeditated low cost ceiling, which partly derives from a lower estimate of income. If revenues do not grow and the deficit figure is limited, the only option is to cut expenditure. Especially in social protection and basic public services. So simple, so cheating. And now again, because the revised income estimate with the current bill that we are discussing today is going to fall under the actual tax collection, and therefore when the final settlement is made in 2019, it will again be positive, as it happened in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 and it will occur in 2015 and in 2016. You will remember, Counsellor, that in the budgetary debate we supported an increase in the expenditure ceiling of EUR 750 million, which meant EUR 500 million more than the figure proposed by the Galician Union. Today we're talking about 228, half that figure. You know, Counsellor, that we'll have to wait until 2019, but when the 2017 year's liquidation is done, those 250 million, those 500 million euros that In Marea said the revenues were overestimated, will be demonstrated with official figures. In short, we reject this bill, which despite the excessiveness of its name is only a partial modification of the budgets of the Board for this exercise. And the reasons behind our rejection are: We do not agree with the abridged procedure and the special single reading and emergency procedure, since it is a change in the necessary debate process that a budgetary modification as needed. And that means a devaluation of Parliament's functions and a disregard for the opposition parliamentary groups. The content of the law means that we continue the basic lines of an budget that we refuse to vote against and present amendments to the total of twenty-five partial amendments. The method used highlights the lack of real self-government capacity of the Galician Union, which is limited to performing an accounting exercise to match the figures given to it by decisions to which it does not participate. The revenue figure imposed as a change in the general budgets of the Board for 2017 is clearly insufficient for the country's needs and does not correspond to reality. The application of these revenue to finance shows the lack of economic strategy for government, with no clear priorities and, despite its name, without really acting on economic growth or, above all, on employment. Technically, it's a poorly-founded chapuza where the Government simply receives an extra amount of resources and distributes them into existing programs and games, which, in addition to being a recognition that they were not sufficiently gifted, shows that the Board has neither ideas nor new projects to finance when it receives new resources. And I'm finished with the last: we don't agree with the punishment of people working in the public sector, because the 1% increase in nominal salary that incorporates the bill actually means a loss of its purchasing power. Inflation in Galicia today in terms of an annual average of 2.5%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u37	Thank you, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u38	Therefore, raising the nominal 1% of wages is reducing to an extent that has not been done in previous years the remuneration of public employees and employees.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u39	Thank you, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u40	Finished: remove this chapuza and actually bring a budget law that allows you to deal with the most serious problems this country has, which you can see better from buses the days when there is no strike than from the official car.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u41	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u42	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question I ask — obviously it is a rhetorical question — is that we are here today, because we are here today, nothing less than the day of Saint Benedict and the day on which the Roma agree to celebrate Lérez so marked a date. And the answer to my question is that there are three causes: a policy, a legal and an economic one. The first is politics. We are here because, finally, a political situation has been unblocked in Spain which led to no budgets until June 29, St. Peter's day, also an important date — obviously I am not thinking of any other Peter than in Pedro Sánchez — but, ultimately, because there are budgets thanks to the unblocking of the political situation after two elections as a result — I insist — of the inability of real dialogue of political forces, in this case of opposition to the Government of Spain. That delay led to the fact that the budgets had not been known in their final count — I insist — until June 29th, just two weeks ago. And, therefore, it seems reasonable to bring here what budgets give Galicia to include in its budgets. First of all, there is political stability, thanks to which the question has finally been unblocked in Madrid. The legal cause is the law of budgetary stability. I have already said in the previous debate that there is a substantial change in the spending capacity of the Autonomous Community and therefore the Budget Act cannot be added to an account which exceeds the expenditure ceiling approved by Parliament. This was the explanation that the president of the Union gave and that we obviously shared. I insist: a spending capacity that increases by 2.5 and comes to Parliament. When more than 4% increased, ten years ago, the left made an appearance to the adviser in whom he explained that he had more money and that they would spend it as they were, without bringing it as a reform of the Budget Law. The third reason is economic, which is the fundamental reason, because at the bottom of this is that the economy is doing well, that the economy is growing, that the collection is rising, and that, therefore, there is more resources to do things; to do things in the social field, to do things in the field of growth and to do things in the restitution of rights to officials, who have seen wage rights plummeted during the crisis. And there are, therefore, more resources to promote the growth strategy that the Government has presented in this House, first, as a Strategic Plan, according to a financial-economic plan that accompanies budgets and, finally, with its own budgets, than this debate, ultimately, does not cease to be more than one extension, exactly an extension of 2.5 % increase in expenditure. We are here -- as I was saying -- because in February, when budgets were approved, the figures that the council had gave some deliveries to the account that already in June it was seen that they were higher as a result of the growing economy. In short, we're here for a great news, which is that the economy is going better than expected at the end of last year. That the economy is better, it is something that is in all the reports, for example, the report of the Governor of the Banco de España, which says regarding 2016: "The Spanish economy kept a high rate of growth exceeding the expectations in force before the year began. The PRI grew by the second consecutive year by 3.2, exceeding as in 2015 the euro area by 1.5 points, in a context of maintaining the external surplus despite the positive growth differential against all trading partners. And the balance in terms of job generation is also favourable." Report from the Banco de España. Obviously, that means for Galicia that we grew two tenths more than the Spanish average, because it's a better situation. And also in the first reports we're going to know, 2016 — a report known to all, the report of the Greek economy now sponsored by Abanca, which has a long tradition in Galicia — according to national accounting, the increase in Galicia's GDP was 3.4, two tenths above the Spanish average; it was the fifth autonomous community with greater growth. Anyway, that means things are going reasonably. And even the most recent data, the Second Report on a Socio-Economic Set-up by the Galician Economic Forum states that the Greek economy continues with its expanding path, records for the fourth consecutive quarter of the year growth rates equal to or greater than 3%, and real GDP increases by 3.1, while the third quarter of the year continues to rise above the Spanish average. This growth is again characterized by being a balanced growth, as the increase in internal and external demand continues to be positive: 1.8-1.3 points. As far as the labour market is concerned, it presents a positive behaviour in quantitative terms, expecting an increase in both the three occupation indicators considered and the reduction in the number of people stopped. Finally, we are in a good economic situation. That's news that the Union has more resources to develop its policies. The unemployment rate was in June under 120,000 people for the first time. Does that mean we're satisfied? No, of course not, we're pleased that it fell by 200,000, because when we were at the worst of the crisis it was well over 200,000. Memberships continue to increase in Galicia, 21,000 people, almost twenty-two thousand in the last year, in annual evolution. Recruitment generally rises by 11%, and the indefinite increases by 17, i.e. seven more than reflects temporary recruitment, and full-time recruitment grows by 13.75, i.e. five more than part-time recruitment. All this in addition to not diminishing social spending. The other day public health expenditure statistics published by the Ministry of Health were made public, and it is a very interesting fact to remember: variation in total health expenditure by autonomous communities, Galicia grew from 2008 to 2015 in the crisis, in the management of the People's Party, exactly 0.1%, but the average of Spain dropped by 0.6%. This was translated in terms of per capita expenditure: in Spain the variation was –1,6 % and in Galicia the health expenditure increased by 2%. We are above all, therefore, 1,393.8 euros in 2015 in health expenditure, well above an average, which is in 1,299. That implies, among other things, social spending, which, as has just been published by the IGE, at this time the number of yellow homes that arrive easily or very easily at the end of the month has increased to 54%, while those with difficulty or much difficulty have fallen to 45%; therefore, more than ever in the historical series, is the best given in the historical series. Satisfaction, by the trend, of course; as a result, much more work needs to be done. In short, we are here for economic reasons, for political reasons, for legal reasons, and we are here to see that we are before a government that is prudent and budget with correct data. This goes off as well as remarkably with what happened in the past. The largest opaque and hidden debt operation, in its conditions and in all respects, was the one that took place in the autonomous community in the years 2008 and 2009: 2,000 million euros of negative settlement due to poor budgeting. That's a sham, and it's not obviously waiting for the state to see the increase in the collection to decide what the bill is, report it in June and bring it to the House for its debate as the popular government has done. Finally, as I've been doing for some time, it turns out that this is the result of an increase in the collection that takes place after the People's Party had done tax reforms in Spain and Galicia. Tax reforms that, according to what the spokespersons of the forces who are now saying that this is useless and propaganda, predicted the following: Left United non-Congredient two Members: "The tax reform of the People's Group is clearly diminishing the social state, it is clearly diminishing public services, it is diminishing the possibilities of the State to address social phenomena of absolute gravity." Compromises, by the way, it is not from the United Left, it does not feel alluded to: "This reform does not approach us to the greatest progress made by the people or to the increase in the collection". This was what they were predicting of fiscal reform at the state level. "If this fiscal reform goes ahead, it is the anteriore of the cooperos and limits the autonomic margins for social policies." When there was the block in the Congress of Deputies. There's already a lot of copage and it doesn't go up the collection; exactly the diagnosis. And in Galicia his leader then also said that "the fiscal reform that prepares the PP diminishes Galician income." And, of course, in this House the fiscal reform was debated and the spokesman for that Socialist Party said, "This reform that you don't know how much you're going to expect Galicia, I think it'll be about five hundred million less." Well, it turns out that the results that bring us here today, which are the results of a good evolution of the collection, of course, show that we are much better than you sometimes get. [[Applause]] I am not going to reiterate the objectives of the expenditure — which the councillor has already stated — of the 230 million euros. We certainly share that there is continuity with the Economic and Financial Plan, with the Strategic Plan, with the budgets, which reinforces social expenditure, the drive for growth and the recovery of public employees' spending capacity. And, of course, we understand that all the decisions being made in health matters, such as universalizing the drugs of hepatitis C, are difficult to resist by the opposition, as it is also difficult to budget money for three thousand new dependents, or how it can be difficult to justify that 11 million are being invested, taking advantage of vacation paron in the summer, including the urgency of the adoption of this law, in schools to reform, expand and improve educational centers and equipment in Galicia. And, of course, also EUR 5 million — it was said here that there was no employment — for the development of employment plans; in particular for the completion of rural entrepreneurship and training programmes and programmes aimed at the most disadvantaged. Of course we agree with the expenditure, and of course we agree to apply the maximum sub-feature that authorizes the State to public employees, once they have also recovered the supplements that due to the crisis have been removed. As announced, they recovered once the crisis allowed for improvement. I believe that this, in addition, is consistent, demonstrates the coherence of the government — I insist — with the strategic plan, with the financial plan and with the budgets, but today's opposition has shown us a lack of coherence. From the outside, you can understand that it calls for the attention of those who talk about joint action to replace the PP Government who submits a rejection amendment which implies that the EUR 230 million could not be spent, who submits another amendment that admits that the amount to be spent is EUR 230 million — that is, the Block — and who seems to you to be less than EUR 230 million and presents us with an amendment that adds another EUR 180 million. It can be seen that the internal coherence of opposition groups is not much. I'd like to make some consideration. En Marea's amendment is the return. We'd have to explain to public servants, to public employees, until they have to wait for the 1% increase to be applied which was considered in the budget law and which we're now providing with funds, because, if we don't provide it with funds, even if it's in the budget law, we couldn't have met. But there was already law number one, which was the first thing we approved. They say here is to slow down the debate. What gives me the impression is that it is you who want to reduce spending, particularly social spending, which is the fundamental expenditure in this budget law. Who will compensate Galicia for not being able to execute the 230 million euros that the Government brings to the House? Galicia would have a lousy profit. I recommend to them, since they're doing a seminar on loss of profits, that they look for who would lend Galicia the loss of profits of these 230 million euros that, if they approved their refund amendment, we would stop having all the Greeks. [[Applause]] More attention deserves the amendments of the PSOE, among other things because they are proposed rather than rejected. As I said a moment ago, they propose to spend 189 million extra euros, 60 would be for additional debt. We have already pronounced ourselves, indebtedness to current expenditure, when the Socialist Party, again and again, is criticizing the level of self-debtedness of the Autonomous Community, despite the fact that it is the lowest in the autonomous communities. With regard to the EUR 60 million resulting from the liquidation of the financing system, we will expect it to occur. At the entrance there is an announcement, an advance, on the part of the minister, but, at the moment, there are no formal ones. It would be a little risky to put him in a law. Above all, I want to focus on the subject of succession tax. The net recognized rights data, which is in the budget execution of the first quarter, is not representative. I want to give you an example. In 2015, in the first quarter, the recognized rights were 228 million, and the final collection was 180 million. What's that got to do with it? For it has to do with what is being said about recognized rights, and then the Administration can grant approvals, that income may be suspended or pending in voluntary payment period and has not yet materialized. So the game of extrapolating the collection in the first quarter to the whole of the year is not right, unless you want to inflate the budget artificially with 60 million euros that then you don't have to incur a deficit and have a problem closing the exercise. I also want to recall that what was said from the base, the additional fund, of local administrations was agreed with the Fegamp, and even yesterday in the CEO an order from the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice Council was published which clearly states that, in case the additional fund is not exhausted, as a result of no requests from the municipalities that merge, it will be divided among the fewer than 15,000 inhabitants, in the same way as at the bottom...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u44	So I think it's a small objection. As far as the Block is concerned, I think the Block is the only thing that makes two ideological amendments. He wants to take away the increase in what he's already taken from the staff members of the concert. And it prefers, instead of strengthening the productive system, to reinforce the policies of strengthening the language of the Galician language. I agree that the Galician language is also an economic engine, but I think that right now the division that makes Union is correct.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u46	In short, ladies and gentlemen, this law brings us good news: recovery of collection, resources for welfare and, ultimately, that we continue to work for a better Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u47	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica round of the amending groups. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u48	Yes, Mr. Puy, they are ideological amendments, they are ideological interventions. In fact, all we do with our political practice is ideology. Of course, you may not have had time to go deep in our amendment to our whole, but there are quite a lot more than two proposals, even considering the limited corset that presupposes the frame in which we move and the limitations that this amendment has, so you can't make any deeper changes. In any case, I'm going to add some questions about things I wanted to comment on the counselor and they were left to say. Mr. Counsellor spoke of new and better jobs, spoke of a lot of work. There has been a great deal of the macro figures, which actually reduce unemployment, but it has failed to mention, for example, something that we have brought into this House and an important phenomenon. You won't deny that if you compare the employee data with the contract data that was signed in our country in the last few years, those figures are quite striking. Those figures reveal an absolutely fragmented work landscape, absolutely precarious, and the consolidation of the figure of the poor worker. In the face of this situation, zero proposals, not a single proposal to tell us what the Galician Council is going to do to ensure that this issue is not going to go any further and that it is not reflected in the purchasing capacity of workers and workers. I don't know, Mr Martínez, if you're a social user, but today you're quite successfully circulating an image, a screenshot of a television show where I know you're debating whether it's exploitation or it's work that a worker covers -- I think I remember -- 240 euros a month for more than 17 hours of work, something like at Rande Bridge -- I don't know if it sounds like something. Well, of course, we don't share that model of labour consolidation and we don't share the employment data associated with it being a success. In any event, I myself, in my intervention, have at other times publicly said here that macroeconomic data contributes to his speech. GDP, for example, referred to by Mr. Puy as well. No one denies the growth of GDP, but then they open accordingly. You talked about Plan 2015-2020, because then do what that plan also says and we also ask the opposition representatives, and they raise, for example, the R & D+i spending to that 2% of the GDP target, which is still far away, for commenting on some of the issues you have introduced. We also want to insist on the Galego Nationalist Block that we need to question the background, because the relationship we have with the Spanish State does not benefit us from having the capacity from our own political framework to intervene in the economy and to intervene in factors that give rise to another economic development. A number of questions have emerged here, such as the theme of the financing model, but we think we must also question other elements. For example, the goal of public debt we understand that it brings an absolutely uneven distribution with the autonomous communities. It's an unfair distribution between Galicia and the Central Government that logically favours the Central Government, which for example can capture more than 70% of the debt set for issues such as the bailout of Madrid's banks, while autonomous communities if they allow us much less, and therefore we have a lower capacity to act. Also, when it comes to matters relating to social expenditure, it is surprising that they boast, for example, of part destined for dependency, when we all know that there is a specific amount of income that corresponds to a finalist grant. Logically, you're not going to have another question. Of course, we reiterate from the Galego Nationalist Block that we understand that this change of budgets is not taking place in the [...] needs that exist in our country, and, what we are not going to buy them from their discourse is that it is an absolute gift for our country, because it is simply the resolution of some accounts that belong to us by law and that we understand that it is still far from what this country should receive so that it can effectively exercise its powers in matters as important as education, education or social services, and not that mistake of that false autonomy, that it really does not cease to be an absolute dependence and the inability to decide what our country is and how we remove our people from ahead. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor by the Socialist Group of Galicia, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u50	Good morning again. I believe that the lack of dialogue of which the spokesperson for the People's Party was actually resolved in a way that indicates that there were more resources available to autonomous communities from the central government than was initially said. We've already discussed here the question of reviewing the figures from the Basque dome, back to 1,400 million, and the reduction of 400 and peak million to the dome from here on. This is a system of autonomous funding, which happens to be that they are not communities of common regime, they are communities of special regime. That's the result of the negotiation in Madrid. So there's more resources than it seems when you want to. To get into today's debate, the general intervener herself, when she accompanies this project, indicates that surely in strict legal terms it was not necessary to go through a bill to this House. So the counselor, using what was already planned in the budget that we approved in February — I think I remember — could incorporate 229 million or 218 into unforeseen and unclassified functions, and from there, using the powers you have to order transfers within the budget, make the appropriate appropriations and pull forward. Surely this would cause some concern on the part of our group, and in general opposition groups, but it would be a possibility. We wouldn't like it, actually. There's another possibility, and the intervener herself says, at last, that why not do it, that is to process a bill. If we process a bill, we process a bill, especially when it comes to a bill that affects budgeting, which has its own specificity of processing. In the end, the Government opted for an intermediate route, which is: let's make a beautified appearance, but an appearance adorned by opposition groups, and that's what seems less sensible to us. There was one of the issues raised by the spokesperson for the People's Group that we would be willing to discuss. If in our proposal, which is 180 million additional, instead of 180, we have to be 160, once we know the information that the advisor can give us in the budget debate about what will happen to those recognized rights that are here — two hundred and a half million euros of successions when they were budgeted 135 — if there are doubts about that because many of the liquidations may have problems, we could graduate our proposal. This procedure is absolutely impossible. This is about the normal processing of a bill, but we can't do it. We think the economy's going well. The economy in Galicia is not so good, if we take the whole crisis, as it could go, especially in terms of employment, as explained earlier by En Marea's spokesman. So this generates more yields, actually. It's not fiscal reform, it's despite fiscal reform. It is the rebound effect of economic growth on many things: on the consumption that was being repressed, on the business benefits, on the IRPF, which is causing this increase in collection. All right, but the bottom line is: Is the Government of Galicia using the possibilities opened up by the new economic pool, in terms of obtaining resources and in terms of applying those costs? And that's where our answer is not. That is why we think that 180 million extras — and all with certain caution, we do not exhaust the capacity we believe to have the Union — should give rise to greater spending capacity in many respects, applying the resources decisively where they need, in social terms, in terms of economic growth. To finish — I have thirty-five seconds left — an important question. We're talking about these 60 million that we put in the liquidation of the financing system; it's on the Ministry's website, it's on the Ministry's website; I don't know if it's been communicated to the Autonomous Community, because I'm not in the Autonomous Community; it's on the website. And there's a settlement of 60 million and peak; even with respect to the budget figure, the difference is a little bigger; but in any case, it's 60 million extra; it's already published, it's here; we're taking it out of the Ministry of Economics. That's why we apply it. That's why we do it. So you can do more and you can do better. That's why we're going to oppose this. If it were a normal processing, we'd have a chance to find ourselves somewhere along the way. So it's impossible, because it's either everything or nothing, and we're worried that in this case we have to choose an alternative policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Leicega. Mr. Lago Peñas has the turn of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u52	In view of the emptiness of the law before us today, I thank the spokesperson for the People's Party to debate; at least we refrain from talking about issues that have a certain interest. Now, his speech was supported on three falsifications, which I'm going to reveal. First of all, what does it have to do with income? If Montoro says so, this tax reform costs 12,500 million euros, which will stop entering the public archives. Montoro said it, which is the People's Party, yet. Second. There is a fiscal counter-reform in the Spanish State and Galicia; fiscal counter-reform which consists in that the system is increasingly losing progress, because it increases the weight of indirect taxes — VAT, special taxes — and lowers the burden of direct taxes, especially societies; and the lower IRPF is becoming a tax on income to work. So fiscal counter-reform lowers the collection. Why is income rising, Mr. Puy? Because nominal GDP is still 6%. You understand that, eh! nominal GDP, 6%. And when nominal GDP is rising to 6%, because there's about 2.5 percent inflation against -1% in previous years, there's a monetary veil that looks like things aren't what they are. So there's more income to do with that variation. By the way, Mr. Puy, when we discuss the expenditure ceiling, let's remember this: the economy is growing to 6% nominal. Let's remember this data, because if it turns out that with a 6% nominal growth, the spending ceiling will increase by 1%... Second falsity, that of the monetary veil. Of course, the entire Budget Act, 1/2017, and this change was made with an IPC estimate close to 0, and we're going about 2%; therefore, all budget variables are conditioned when read in real terms. For example, counsellor, employees and public servants. You're not raising your salary to the workers and the public workers, you're lowering your salary in real terms. If inflation was 0, as it was in 2015, because at the rise of 1% it is 1% of salary; but with inflation at 2.5 it is to reduce the wages of public employees. Let's say it. The third fallacy — this is the most sympathetic one — has to do with the procedure. Mr. Puy, I was surprised that you used it, because that fundamental principle of unbreakable accessions is something that remains in the past. You bring a project here and a procedure that compels us to stand for or against. It's not possible to make specific amendments. They are calling for unbreakable accession or opposition to these neoliberal fundamental principles of their budget. But who thinks it's us? How are we going to say that's the method? He even has an idea that surprised me. Of course, the opposition is different. But is it so hard to understand that In Marea is not the same as the BNG and the Socialist Party? Is it so hard to understand? That we have a different opposition, although we have a common element, which is to end this government that is destroying our country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, if I may, I will finish -- I don't want to waste time -- with a joke; I will end with a joke. What you would like, apparently, is that we have tabled many amendments, with a purpose, which is to vote against all of them, as they have already done with the 2,000 amendments we tabled in the budget debate. That's what bothers you: you can't vote against the amendments tabled by the opposition. And that, those principles, unbreakable adherence to the Government, which the opposition disqualifies, because they even think different, or that parliamentary roll of presenting things so that we can vote against them, that doesn't fit democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u53	Thank you, Mr. Lago. We now proceed to the accumulated debate on the consideration of the following proposals for legislation. Debate taken into account by the G.P. de In Marea, integral of gender identity of Galicia Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, integral of gender identity in the Community of Galicia Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, integral gender identity of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u54	The three bills were introduced, and for their presentation the shift is. We started with the Parliamentary Group of the Tide. Mr. Cal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u55	Thank you, President. Thank you for letting us put the collective flag here. Good morning to all and to all. A special greeting to the guests and guests we have today in the gallery, who fill this hemicycle of dignity, and also to the comrades who are out of focus showing their support for this bill that we are discussing today. [[Applause]] There's a feeling that's common to all the people who fought for the right to be, who says, if he was born again, he'd be who I am again, but I'd rather not have to live the childhood I had. Ladies and gentlemen, are you sure what your identity is? Do you know if it's you men or women? Would you rather have a different identity than manifest? If you think no one should answer these questions for you, why do you think others can do it? Would they like to be questioned, discriminated against, segregated or raped by their gender identity? Imagine that in order to be treated like who I am, you have to win the approval of a mental health professional and that he believes through ridiculous evidence that you know who I am. Imagine you don't show up in your DNI. What do you think would happen when they buy and want to pay with the card? Or when do you want to register at the university or go into a nightclub with your friends and friends? Are they aware of the pitfalls and why they have to be giving explanations to strangers constantly? It's a lot of the discriminatory situations that trans people face in their daily lives. Defending their dignity and freedom to be who really are our tasks as public representatives. We have the responsibility to legislate for this situation to change, because with your proposals, gentlemen of the People's Party, we are far from being able to guarantee these basic rights to the trans collective. The Government, so far, is not fulfilling its responsibility in this matter, and how to improve it speaks of this bill. I don't know which one of you has a daughter, but I'd like for a moment to imagine you're in a doctor's office with your daughter and this one says things like, "Are you sure you want to be a child? Why is it better to be a child? If you tell your friends at school what you are, they'll laugh a lot about you and you won't have any friends. You know you'll never be a real woman, you'll never have the rule, and of course you can't have children." How would you feel if your daughter came home and told them that today, again, she played alone in school because the kids don't let her play football and the girls say she's a faggot? How would you feel if your daughter or son told you when they got home again called her "mariquita", "trave him" or "sarasa"? How would you feel, gentlemen, if the doctor tried to blame you for just accompanying and supporting your daughter so that this could really be who it is? And unfortunately, the thing doesn't change when you grow up and the questions go on. "If you're a woman, how come you're not dressed in skirts or makeup and wear short hair? Show me. But if you like men and you're not operated, how do you have sex? You're excited to be penetrated because the real men aren't penetrated. And what will your daughter think about when she sees you dressed as a woman? Do you know you're probably going to lose your job, friends, and probably your family?" All these questions and claims I make to them have been made to many of the transsexuals and their families who accompany us here today. His commitment made this bill possible, his example worthy of admiration, his work for a fairer and more egalitarian society deserves the greatest recognition by this House. [[Applause]] What are the numbers of transsexuality? What are they talking about? Eighty-five percent of the trans-persons thought of suicide, 41% attempted suicide — compared to 1.5% of the society's average. The rate of unemployment in trans-persons is between 85% and 90%. 90% of school harassment cases are linked to sexual orientation and identities. I want to tell you very clearly, in case the figures don't come up. These data speak of a very serious situation, which, as I said at the outset, we have the responsibility to legislate to change. For our part, we will do everything in our hand to solve it, and that's why we are defending this bill today, because, yes, it's indispensable to start changing this situation. However, in the face of this situation, the People's Party has decided these days that the best thing it could do was a propaganda campaign to save its image before this debate, so that its lack of commitment does not produce wear, which seems to do while nothing does to change this situation. Today we bring here a bill to protect the rights of trans people, a proposal prepared by the collectives who come to work in Galicia in recent years. We've been organizing concentrations, demonstrations, talks, workshops, performances, those that help families, children and adults to better overcome the barriers that are still unbreakable. A very busy law that collects the best of the various laws passed in other parliaments, the law that trans people need, the law that we as representatives must take into consideration in this Parliament. A law that speaks of fundamental rights, dignity, happiness and the right to be. Over the past few days, the People's Party, as I say, has launched a propaganda campaign to conceal its true face, that of intolerance and that of the denial of the reality of our diverse society. First, it calls upon LGTBI collectives to sign a collaborative agreement, using the money of the Greeks and the Greeks to try to transfer an image of collaboration with the associations to five days of the debate of this bill for its consideration; an agreement by which the collectives have been waiting for the first year and which is a government obligation to comply with Law 2/2014, which they use in a bad way for their interests. You just need to see how these agreements are signed, forcing you to make and justify spending within a period of only three months. They're not interested in collaborating with the collectives, they're only interested in having a headline say it. The president of the Union also joined this delirious campaign and went out to announce the creation of a reference center that perpetuates the errors that have been committed; a segregation and pathologizing model, contrary to what trans people are demanding, as well as European directives; a model that has already proved unsuccessful: reference centers that are closing in other communities and that the Government of the Union rescues to continue segregation and treating trans children as sick people, unable to know for themselves what their gender is. Since 2010 there has been an international movement called Stop Trans Pathology. How sad that seven years later you're still here as the rainhead! I don't know how to explain it to them so they understand it: trans people aren't sick and they don't deserve us to make them move to reference centers to subject themselves to full control of mental health personnel converted into gender police. Transsexuality will never be a problem; transphobia, yes, and within this House. [[Applause]] The secretory centres for the trans-children, as announced by Feijóo, account for the rejection of the vast majority of trans-people and their families, as well as for most of the collectives, and Feijóo's announcement provoked reactions against not only the collectives who come to work in Galicia for the rights of trans-people. The State Platform for Trans Rights, no one without an identity, who glutins or 80% of the collectives trans of all or state, or Fridays stated: "Retrace us to old, retrograted and secretory forms of attention contrary to depathologization and new but necessary figure of law, self-determination of identity and gender expression, announcing as a new model, is a clumsy exercise of juggling that only hides interests that are not of trans people.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And in case it wasn't enough, they also announced, in this delirious propaganda campaign, the creation of an LGTBI observatory and, as always, not to mention the collectives who come to work in Galicia, because what matters is the headline. As we may suspect, it will remain empty of content, as always: it seems they do while they do not, propaganda to hide the lack of commitment. In recent years we have seen how in communities throughout the state they are adopting laws that depatologist trans identities and recognize as a fundamental human right the self-determination of gender identity and expression: Andalusia, 2014; Valencia, this same year; or even in a community where the People's Party governs in Madrid. If they vote against this law, they will again be playing with the interests and rights of citizenship. The Greeks and the Greeks deserve more than their rule. To vote against this bill is not to be up to citizenship. If we measure their commitment, the commitment of this government to gay, transsexual, bisexual and intersexual people in Galicia by their initiatives, they have a strong suspense so far. A law, 2/2014, no application three years later. We look forward to the report on its application, which we understand should not take too long, because little has to be told. A shy, last-minute campaign, like the one pushed in school with the name "I respect," picked up the criticisms of the entire Italian LGTBI fabric. In education, only one protocol hung on the official page of the board. Unfortunately, it's easier to find a transphobic booklet of "Do You Hear" in a teaching center than a board brochure to educate from diversity. A lack of commitment that they showed when a few months ago they voted here, in this plenary, against En Marea's proposal to withdraw the transphobic booklets from the educational centres of Hazte Hear; a lack of commitment that they showed very few weeks ago when they were complicit, with their silence, of the visit of the bus of shame, which although obtained a powerful rejection by the citizen. That's your commitment to the LGTBI collective, which has nothing to do with the propaganda campaign you did these days. Today they have a fantastic opportunity to show their commitment by positively voting this law. And when you have your intervention here, you can explain to the representatives of the trans-couples who condemn the trans-phobic bus of Hazte Hear, who has been in this city, and who have been wrong when you voted against the withdrawal of the brochures of Hazte Hear from the schools. Prove your commitment. They have today the chance to start moving. [[Applause]] I also see the obligation to clarify that this law is complementary and compatible with Law 2/2014, since among the demonstrations of the past days Feijóo said that those we defend this law will have to clarify ourselves and we will have to explain that we change our mind, if we have already approved 2/2014. It would be good if someone explained to Mr Feijó that Law 2/2014 only collects two lines related to transsexuality; a law that does not end with trans discrimination, even if it takes it by name, because it does not depathology or collects crucial aspects such as the difficulty of the health, education and legal system. If you vote against this law, you will be legitimizing the continuation of discrimination, you will be telling Paul, who has moved three times as a school center because of harassment, who has to assume that because he is different he has to live with transphobia; they will be voting that Sara does not find her contract as a trans woman; they will be voting that Manuel has to ask for a credit to do the necessary surgeries and that Sergas does not cover her; they will be voting for impunity from the machist cave that insults, harassment and agrates; they will be voting for Daniela to continue to have to explain every time she draws his DNI. If you vote not for this proposal, you are voting for transphobia. [[Applause]] This bill has the support of many groups: Ultreia LGTBI, AmigoZando, Arelas, Algarabia, Generem, Barcelona, Association Nous Mesmas, Association Galicia against Info, ATC Freedom, Association Colors of Westeros and the Federation Platform for Trans Rights, which includes 80% of the trans collectives. This law is indispensable for trans people to have healthcare, close, non-segregating and non-pathological care, care according to needs, care that doesn't judge, but that accompanies, public and quality, of course. It is also essential to visualize, naturalize and protect sexual and gender diversity in the educational curriculum and in the training of teachers, an indispensable law to facilitate the life of trans people, who recognize their identity, also in those two years of administrative limbo, so that they can have an identity document according to their gender. An indispensable law for all people to have guaranteed the self-determination of gender and the full development of their identity; a law indispensable to Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u56	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u57	Good morning to all and welcome to the Galician Parliament. Today is a very important day, I think it's very important. The simple debate of this bill is a very important debate, as it comes here, driven, as it has already been said, and drafted by the LGTBI collective of this country, by the simple fact that we are already progressing by giving no cutters, no caps, no limits, this political debate. First of all, from the Galego Nationalist Block, in addition to welcoming you, to thank you for being here today, we have a clear picture of the movements that we have in recent weeks. We are clear that the fact that the Galician Union, through the President of the Union himself, is going out publicly before the parliamentary debate of this Gender Identity Act, announcing measures directed at the trans-sensual collective that today we can no longer come to this House voting against this law without further delay. That's a huge change if we keep in mind everything that's happened in recent years. [[Applause]] We have even shown ourselves from the BNG absolutely contrary to that reference unit by the health care model they intend to implement. I recommend to all the people we are in this House — the collectives already know it — several readings that are available on their own network, which are open, that we can easily download any of the people we are here. I brought one in particular, it's transferred to Catalan, but it's also available in Spanish and it's even available in Italian, where a comparison is made of two health care models that have been unfolded in only one territory, which is the case of Catalonia. This is a comparison between the Gender Identity Unit of the Barcelona Clinical Hospital and the Transit, which is an entity belonging to the Catalan Health Institute. I recommend that you take a look at this and many other comparative documents so that we collectively reflect on what was announced in the past Council of the Union and what is intended to be implemented in Galicia. But, apart from that, that since the Galego Nationalist Block we have anticipated that we are absolutely against that reference unit, we believe that this announcement is a triumph of yours, it is a triumph of this country's LGTBI collective, it is a triumph of the German feminist movement, which has always accompanied the LGTBI collective, and it is also the triumph of the enormous transformation of Greek society in recent years, which has managed to put at the forefront of public debate, political debate, the rights of gay people, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual and intersexual people. It shows that little by little but with a vocation of no return, by social impulse, by popular impulse, by your impulse, the cabinets are falling and that you have opened the doors of pairs to the point that today the People's Party has to look for the photo, it has to look for the headline, to wash the face before the public opinion if you want to come here today to vote against a law for sexual rights and freedoms and gender in our country. The same party — one must remember and refresh the memory collectively today in this plenary session — that same People's Party, which has not long voted against without regret any of the Equal Marriage Act, which is opposed to the institutions, even in front of the Constitutional Court, and that in the streets — all the people we are here remember these infamous demonstrations — is opposed to frontally, in the institutions and in the streets, that two people of the same sex could marry on equal terms as the straight people of heterosexualism. So since the Galego Nationalist Block, we believe that, after all the living, after all this and the steps that have been taken in this country and outside it, the People's Party that you have today, what you really have today, is a less reason to refuse to take into consideration this bill; one less reason if, as they say, it is true that you work for equality, for freedom, for the rights and the image of the People's Party; historic on this Pride Day in Madrid was not only that, a picture more. If they really are for freedom, for equality of rights and for us to go among all and among all breaking walls and breaking fences, today they have to vote in favour of taking account of this law. Today they will have to decide whether they want to remain simply in an advertisement, which, we insist, has been rejected by the LGTBI collective and the trans-national collective of our country, or bet on us to move forward with this law in recognition of rights and in dialogue; to move forward in a more equitable society, more just, by moving forward in a country determined to shield by law the right to be, to exist, by setting specific obligations for the Public Administration to ensure that trans-age, children or adults, migrants or nationals, develop their social transit in Galicia with the least possible barriers and difficulties, with the ultimate objective of fulfilling the legislation already approved, that of non-discrimination by gender identity or sexual orientation. Because this bill, which, we insist, has been drafted and driven by the German LGTBI collective, goes beyond the law of 2014, expressly recognizes rights and freedoms that the Greek legal framework still does not collect and that the Spanish framework limits in many cases to adults. There is not a single law in the German legal system that defines transsexuality, that is intersexuality, or that is sexual or gender identity. And that legal void, along with the 2007 Spanish framework, still puts many impediments, many stones on the way to those people whose gender identity doesn't correspond to their sex; people to whom they are assigned names, bodies and roles that don't represent their identity. Stones, traps, boundaries that begin at the same time as to access any public service, including health care or legal recognition of their kind, have to be diagnosed with a gender dysphoria disorder, they have to be classified as mental illnesses. That's the greatest advance in this law, that's the cornerstone of this legislative project: to stop considering transsexuality as a disease to recognize that not always, not always!, the gender identity corresponds to the sex assigned to birth, without that it never constitutes a pathology, but one of the outlines of diversity and that we are proud and proud, precisely, of being diverse. Or what's the same, that gender has nothing to do with genitals, that there are men with vagina and women with penis. We repeat, there are men with vagina and women with penis. To speak, as this bill collects, of self-determination and not of disorder, of free decision, and not of dysphoria, of accompaniment or support, and not of guardianship. It is necessary, not to ensure that you are not discriminated against for being trans, but to recognize your mere existence, and that right cannot be denied or annulled by appeal to the non-discrimination law of 2014. We've been moving forward in the last few years? —I was asking myself these days preparing for this intervention—; we have moved forward, and much too, but that is not the excuse not to reinforce all the measures that have been put forward, and those which will have to be shielded by right laws. I'm going to give you an example. The reception homes for women in a situation of macho violence, like many other services in the fight against this political problem, already existed before the law of 2007, and that has not prevented us in any case from regulating them legally. Moreover, this House has been beyond that — together with all the political forces in this country, driven by the German feminist movement — guaranteeing the status of victims to women in situations of violence without needing them to file a complaint. We did so when the Spanish Courts didn't even talk about it, and now those Spanish Courts look at Galicia as a referent in the debate on the reform of the law on the prevention and treatment of violence against women. We have been vanguarded in 2014 with the Law on Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination LGTBI, but we need to continue to move forward; moving forward in a still lame legal framework which does not incorporate even sanctions in the articulate of that law, and in addition, in what — it has been said before — there is only one reference to transsexual persons — only one, article twenty. A single reference that also focuses on the therapies related to transsexuality always from a medical, non-social perspective, always subject to clinical criteria, again treating trans people as ill, nothing else. There's not a single article more dedicated to transsexuality. This 2014 law does not depathologist, it does not facilitate the change of name in the register or sex in the identity card; that law does not guarantee access to the lockers of puberty to trans children; that 2014 law makes it no easier for Eric to enter this Parliament not to have to explain that in his identity document he puts a female name that does not correspond to it, nor to appeal to the understanding of the police in the garita to let him enter because his name does not correspond to his identity. A situation that, by the way, lives dozens of people inside and outside our country every day. It was said here before: at the door of a nightclub, at the door of the Tax Agency, at the door of the boarding house at any airport or even in the box of a supermarket when they want to pay by card. That's why the bill collects the creation of an administrative document that guarantees the treatment of trans people in the Greek territory according to their gender identity; their real, not the one wrongly attributed to them at birth, and of course, without having to be declared by a psychiatrist or a clinical psychologist as mental illnesses in order to achieve it. We're talking about fundamental rights, about social justice, not about mere process. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not progressing by announcing specialized medical units, but by ensuring that when they enter a hospital door they will respect the free decision and identity of the person who enters. They don't depatologist doctors, they don't depatologist doctors! It was not the health community that removed from the list of mental illnesses homosexuality or lesbianism. They dispatologist laws recognizing rights, and that's a political matter, not a medical one. At the BNG we don't want to imagine Galicia of the future, but to start building it, with pride, every day. And today we have the opportunity to take one step further into consideration this bill, and we can do all the political forces together. Think, recapitulate, and realize that society has long been ahead of the ability of the People's Party to realize — late, but at the end they always end up realizing — that we are already living in the 21st century. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u59	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all and all. I have to begin by thanking all the activists you're here today and, in particular, Amigos, Arelas and Ultreia; thanks for making this law possible. This law takes in every line your effort, your many hours' work that the Socialist Group picks up today and presents at its moment. We do so, not only by agreeing to a hundred percent with the spirit of a rule that will make a Greek society more plural, more tolerant and more egalitarian; we do it with all respect to your struggle, with all the respect you deserve after many years of struggle. [[Applause]] A value, ladies and gentlemen, of equality, which not only shares the Socialist Group, it was the insignificant ship of our policies when we had the opportunity to rule. It is also the same in those autonomous communities where we rule, for example in Andalusia — which has already been mentioned before it has a very similar law to which we are going to debate today. Equality understood as the social and political engine of this country, in this case the rights of the LGTBI collective. We collect this draft, as we have done on other occasions with that bill that amended the Civil Code in matters of marriage. The only thing we did, the only thing Mr. Zapatero's government did, was listen, was pick up that torrent, that force of freedom and equality that was on the streets of this country and transfer it to the State Official Gazette. And from there to life, to the quality of life of millions of people in this country. All of this despite the traps. That force is unstoppable, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in spite of the unconstitutional resource that they have engaged in interposing. I'd tell you, our partner -- as far as we're concerned -- colleague Pedro Zerolo, that homosexuals are not sexual orientations that wander into space, ladies and gentlemen, they're their children, they're their brothers, they're their party mates. At the same time that they're not in another dimension, neither are the people with gender identity; they're not strange people, they're not remote people, they have them up there, they're people like any other person, they're citizens of full right, they have to have the same rights as any of us. Today we try to legislate not only for them and them, we try to legislate for the whole of Galician society. We do so because a decent society is the one that does not humiliate any of its citizens, a decent society, which we want today to put a stone to build it, that is the one that respects all its citizens. [[Applause]] A bill that matters to citizenship, beyond which it is directed to a collective, to a small collective that is largely forgotten and I mean, even left behind, within the LGTBI collective itself. For what we don't value the Galician law of 2014, that law driven by the Socialist Party thanks — and I mean it and whenever I have the opportunity to speak of this law we do so — to the effort and the work that it cost to put it into effect and to achieve an understanding and, you know, what they did was put into the closet a law of minimums that was pioneer, which was important, and they pulled it off to shine for advertising and propaganda last week. A wet role that destroys not only the hopes and the struggle for the rights of this collective, but an intense parliamentary work that has been done in this House. This proposal is based on the principles of human rights which are recognised by the Council of Europe, by resolutions of the European Union and the UN itself of depathology, of the eradication of social stigmatization. They all denounce the serious social and legal situation suffered by transsexuals in the world and the continuing violation of their rights. We've taken steps, some important steps, but they're insufficient. In the state framework, with the regulation of the modification of the sex name in the NID without the need to undergo a genital surgery. A law, lords, that we can proudly say that she was a pioneer all over the world, a law driven also by the Government of Mr. Zapatero, a law to which you, of course, could not be otherwise, opposed. A rule that after the years, no doubt, friends and friends that you are in the guest gallery, has become obsolete. A law that must be reformed, that must continue to eliminate any dispatological risk that exists in it. As I said, steps were taken, also in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, with a law of minimums which is not enough. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we intend to legislate to strengthen the right that every person, that all and all we have to build for themselves a self-definition with respect to his body, his sex, his gender and his sexual orientation, aspects that are fundamental to the dignity and freedom of people. We're not the first to do it, they've already done it in Navarre, in Andalusia, in Extremadura, in Madrid, in Valencia, and it's close to being done in Cantabria as well. Moreover, in autumn it is predicted that, as in Congress, there is no popular party's knee, if this law is passed at the state level. This bill aims, for example, to ensure that treatments do not segregate or discriminate, because there are no specific treatments for transsexuals. If premenopausal syndrome, by setting an example, ladies and gentlemen, needs estrogen; transsexuals too. If the growth of facial vision in a woman is applied to anti-androgens, transsexuals too. And this group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is wondering why if they and they have equal access, non-segregated and are not treated as sick or suspected of being, why do transsexuals do they? Why does the Galician Union announce last week the creation of an exclusive reference unit based on traditional biomedical models that belong to the 1980s and not to the 2017s? [[Applause]] And that they have already shown failure in other autonomous communities, which is a cost for absurd self-administration. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's a much more absurd cost than the economy and that's what it has for the dignity of these people who will once again be stigmatized. Why do transsexuals have to continue to bear that in order to recognize their gender identity they must answer questions that undermine their privacy? Like, how much does it matter to you?, how is the relationship between your mother and your father? Or even if you feel strange presences, as if you're in a fourth millennium chapter or you're talking to someone who has a mental illness. Ladies and gentlemen, it must not be this Government, the Government of the Union, nor any other government, which dictates whether a person is transsexual or not. It's the person who should determine what his gender is and what his sex is. The worst thing is that you come with paternalism, with paternalism that we heard the other day from Mr. Feijóo, because yes, it's true, you're afraid. The reaction of the other day of the Government of the Union, in addition to makeup and justifying today's failure, is because they know I can't stop that torrent of equality and freedom that continues to be on the streets of this country. [[Applause]] Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, we must learn the issues we set during our learning process and recognize that we do not know many questions about transsexual people: prejudices, stigmatization, marginalization. There's a lack of information that leads us to confuse, by setting an example, gender-identified sexual orientation, and that when certain people get a microphone in front of them and ask them about the rights of transsexual people, they say, "I don't care who they lie with." We have a problem of ignorance, we have it all, and that's the first thing we have to take on politicians, trainers. All society is guilty, Your Honor, of not knowing. The biggest revolution we can make, the first one we have to do besides — and it should be before the adoption of this law — is to change ourselves; to learn, understand and, above all, listen. As we do not know, there are many professionals who do not, and from the Socialist Group we are convinced that they put all their efforts into doing — and we always say — as much as possible their work as possible. They demand training and information; her lack is causing something we know well for the processes of macho violence, which happened when we started treating women victims of this scourge, which is that there is a double victimization of these people. This proposal envisages professionals as accompaniment, as support, and never to diagnose, because transsexuality is not a disease. Another of the most important aspects of this law is education, ladies and gentlemen. We wanted to do this, we wanted that in those education books for citizenship if we had talked about all these issues, if we had formed into the textbooks of reality, and you have objected, because for you to educate the children and children of this country in values of tolerance, respect and democratic plurality I have assumed an affront and, of course, I have assumed, not clearly. We can't afford to, ladies and gentlemen, as a society, the failure that there are children like Alan who committed suicide because of the harassment they suffered in the classrooms. This law is also for them and for them, and to stop looking elsewhere, to fight bullying, against the psychological and emotional impact they have in school. They're not isolated cases, 80% -- 80% lords! -- of minors recognize that they've ever thought about taking their lives away and 40% have tried to do so at times; less than when they're heard and they're not treated as sick people stop having attention deficits, those pathologies that are diagnosed. A protection of the minors who appear in this law with the measurement of tutors, legal guardians, and something that we consider to be very important: that when there are situations of suffering and defence due to abusive denial of gender identity there must be an intervention by the Government. Of course, yes, because Cristina, although there are many women, many mothers like you, who fight with nails and teeth for the rights of their children and daughters, there are others who can't understand it, I'm not who! — if it was, ladies and gentlemen, I am not able to respect it and to influence the normal development of these minors. We also intend to launch transitional administrative documentation. We're not talking about a double DNI, we're talking about a document that would allow transsexuals to have, avoid having to explain their lives. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that, for example, they're going to pick up a letter to Mail because they got a notification and the DNI doesn't reflect the picture they have right now. That happens to many people in this country. It touches many other areas like the media, which also have to make a call to use the right language in all cases, or sport, because if women are discriminated against in sports, transsexual people are still more. And I want to make a special mention to María José Martínez Patiño, a vigue that, in addition to fighting against discrimination that is supposed to be a woman, had to be subjected to controls and having the XY chromosome, I suppose that the Spanish federation at its time had taken his purse, housing in a sports residence and suffered the ridicule of the press and public opinion. He took away a lot more than that, took away what made her happy. And also, of course, we don't want to forget the transsexuals who are in prison, those who have no voice. Today we also want to make a special mention of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, at this minute more than one minute I'm left, I'm talking to you, since there's consensus among all the opposition groups. You are in the struggle of rights the red light light is always the last of the row, but you have enough moral twice as for, while at the same time they stand up against those who defend rights, make use of them: they said no to divorce and have divorced one, two, three, four and up to five times; women have always been opposed to that law of abortion which gave us our right to decide, but you have aborted us; they have not supported the marriages between people of the same gender, but they have acted as witnesses in marriage as witnesses of the same kind of people of the same gender, but they have acted as vote witnesses among comrades of their party's fellow fellows among their party -- that hypocrisy, Your Honor!—; you have not wanted to change the DNI's law law law law and you have given us our right to decide, but you have given us the right to have given us the right to their rights; they have taken the same rights to make the right of rights; they have said not to divorce the right to divorce the right: they are always the right the right the right the right the right the right to divorce the law; but they have said: they are always to divorce red light the right the right the red light red light red light red light red light; but they are always, but they are always, but they are always have been the last and they have been the last to have been the last the last to have been the right, but they are the lasts; but they have the lasts; but they have had the last to have had the last to have had the last to have had the lasts; but have had the two moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral as to give, but they have been, but have been, but they have been, but they have been, but they have been, but have been, but they have been, but they have been set moral as to give, but as for the right, but as to give, but they have been set moral as for them have the right, but they have have have have had, but they have been set moral moral moral double moral double moral double moral as for the right, but for them have been, but they have have been in the right; but they have been, but as for for them have given, but have been [[Applause]] We owe this law to many people, to all the activists who fought, to those who stayed on the road, to brave parents and mothers. It's a law of response to humiliation, and today we have the opportunity to start returning to you the respect you deserve, affirming your identity, restoring your freedom. You don't ask for privileges, you ask to be equal in all areas and this is not just a statement of intent. They're just, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a minority, but their triumph today would be that of the whole of Galician society. We from the Socialist Group ask for support for this bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u61	Another question, the flag was put by consensus of the BNG, En Marea and the Socialist Party. I don't know if the person who comes to talk about the People's Party bothers the presence of this flag on the street. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u62	You'll see, you'll see. Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to all the guests who accompany us today in the rostrum. Mrs. Blanco, there's no consensus when we weren't asked if we wanted to put the flag. And not only does it bother us from the People's Group, but I brought my own in order to withdraw it. [[Applause]] I want to begin my speech today by making clear the express commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group to defending the equal rights of all people, whatever their sexual orientation or identity. Our explicit refusal condemns any form of discrimination, harassment or unequal treatment that is motivated by the sexual preferences of each one. Both issues, the defense of freedom and equality of persons, and our commitment to all of them, were enshrined in Law 2/2014 of April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. A proposal from the Socialist Group, which shows that we are not a wall, Mrs Blanco, when we are dealing with an important issue that binds the whole population and creates no kind of difference between associations and others, between groups and others, and tries to seek the highest consensus among all these people. [[Applause]] A law — in which I had the honour of being the rapporteur appointed by my group — which was approved in this House, reaching a great consensus among the political forces and which turned Galicia into the first community which had legislation on this matter. A law that upholds equality and non-discrimination of the transsexual collective in Galicia. A necessary law, of course, and that's why we voted in favour of it, because it guarantees the rights of LGTBI people. A law that aims to protect, and also to improve, the quality of life of these people with an integral approach that reaches their security, their right to justice, their work, family, health, education, culture, sport, youth or communication. In short, to all the issues of his life and therefore a broad and ambitious law, and applicable in all his articles, to transsexual persons. One law, we stated, would not be possible without the indispensable approach, involvement and commitment of people and social organizations LGTBI of Galicia and without the complicity, political and social, of a community like ours, where Greek men and women made their flag tolerance and respect for the dignity of people. This law, we say, was a collective achievement of the associations, platforms and foundations of the Greek LGTBI, of the institutions that participated in its elaboration and of society as a whole; it was not propaganda. Resolution 1719 of 2011 on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity formally condemns any act of violence or discrimination by sexual orientation and gender identity anywhere in the world. However, we watch with sadness a world where homosexuality and transsexuality are still pursued. Specifically, in seventy-one states they are criminalized and in thirteen they are punished with the death penalty. Spanish legislation, however, has evolved — although much more remains to be done — to collect a number of changes, converting Spain into the third country of the world to legalize equal marriage. Law 3/2007 of 15 March 2007 — regulating the statutory correction of the mention of sex of persons — called for progress in consolidating the rights of older transsexuals. Spain has joined, Your Honor, and even led, the struggle for the full equality of LGTBI people. And inside Spain, Galicia in the first place. Later they followed other autonomous communities: Andalusia, Catalonia, Canary Islands and Extremadura. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we have a law to develop action plans and strategies and to comply with the rights of trans people. A law, I repeat, applicable in all its articles to trans people. The analysis of the legal text that you propose for your consideration reveals proposals that are already being developed. They propose, for example, measures in the field of education that are already being done in Galicia. I'm not going to report everything you're doing here, because I wouldn't have enough time, but I'm going to describe the most important advances that directly affect transsexual people in Galicia. In March 2016, the education protocol was presented to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity; a protocol that was made in dialogue with associations and, in fact, for drafting it was counted with family associations with trans minors—Arelas, for example—and it is about working papers that they have as their goal to convert discrimination, with particular reference to those cases where sexual identity does not correspond to the one assigned at the time of the birth of the person. For this purpose, the document defines the terms of gender identity, registrar identity, transsexuality, bisexuality and sexual orientation, and establishes guidelines for communication to educational centres by parents or legal guardians, in case a gender identity is shown different from that assigned at the time of birth. A document, ladies and gentlemen, which has been made available to schools and schools in Greece to know how to act when a minor transsexual starts his transit and to form the entire educational community as well. At least 12 centres in Galicia have activated this protocol to ensure that all rights of the child are respected; a protocol that includes, for example, that the student uses the clothing and toilets of the genre in which he or she feels comfortable or that the educational community addresses the minor with the name that he or she has agreed to. And I stress, it was done with the collaboration of the entities. Regarding the plan and educational content that you propose in your text, as the Education Council also includes these criteria, both in the primary curriculum design, with the introduction of Article 11.3 and in the secondary design, with the introduction of Article 4, which says: "The behavior will be avoided... etc., favoring the visibility of transsexual, transgenic and intersexual reality." More measures in education, ladies and gentlemen, such as including Article 8.2 in the order in which Galicia's school calendar is approved for the 2016-2017 course: "In public-funded teaching centres specific activities will be carried out close to international celebration dates related to the effective recognition of the rights of trans people." Awareness campaigns are also carried out. In the "I respect" campaign, for the awareness of schoolchildren, for the awareness of the whole of Galician society through their children, what is spoken of is concepts such as plurality, difference, regarding the sexual diversity of the children and the children of Greece, who are the future, and teaching them how to normally see trans people will ensure that the Greek society of the future acts with normality and is more inclusive in the coming years. [[Applause]] In the educational field too, it is also being acted directly against school harassment because of sexual orientation, and I would like to refer, in particular, to the law of coexistence and protocol against sexual harassment, in which the People's Party was a pioneer and in which, of course, we do not count on its support this time. They also propose in the text measures in the field of health, and here much has been said about the reference unit. Well, with regard to Article 20, where they ask for a reference care unit, I textually read Article 20 of the law that you present for your study and which says, "The Community of Galicia, in its health service portfolio, will ensure the existence of a gender identity reference care unit." Article 20.1. [[Murmurs.]] Last week President Feijóo announced, after the Council, that Galicia will have a pioneering unit of support and assistance between professionals, transsexuals, family members or caregivers, and the main objective that it will pursue will be to dispathoize transsexuality and introduce a health policy in the treatment of these people that guarantees the identity of gender with a transposive look, as well as access to the health system in accordance with the meaning name. A unit that is not mandatory, ladies and gentlemen, does not want to confuse people; a unit of optional use, since each trans person can be cared for by his or her pediatrician or primary care physician at his or her reference hospital, thus taking into account the criteria of maximum proximity and proximity care, which, curiously, is the same as you ask in article 20 of the bill presented here, in points 5 and 6: "The reference unit will provide counselling and follow-up services to professionals providing health care to people across the community who opt for proximity care, following the principles of this law." Point 6: "The reference unit shall meet and provide full assistance to those who choose to apply for voluntary derivation to that centre." I don't see his incongruence. We're talking about the same thing. What you propose in law is what we're going to do with the reference unit, exactly the same. [[Applause]] Also in 2016, Mr. Cal, the first collaboration agreements were signed with LGTBI entities and associations of persons. It wasn't a few months ago, they signed the year 2016. And four associations were signed with representatives to carry out activities to promote and defend the rights and interests of the LGTBI collective. This year it's true that only two of the associations were signed, two of them didn't want to sign. It's really a pity this breach of consensus between associations, which didn't happen with the Law of 2014. I suppose you've received this email addressed to all groups. I read it, without saying of course the name of the associations. It is from 5 July 2017, addressed to the People's Parliamentary Group, to the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Group of the BNG: "From two associations we want to make known that we are disengaged from each and every one of the actions carried out in the past, in the present and the ones that can be carried out in the future [...], since, although they speak and act on behalf of the collective, we do not feel represented for several reasons, among others, that we are autonomous entities and that in no case have our representations been granted to them. As always, etc..." Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the Government of Greece it is clear that what we want is to talk to all entities and, in fact, we demonstrate it by signing the agreement last year and by showing it with the announcement of creating an observatory with its participation. We respect very much the role they play. That is if, if any of these associations want to beg the representativeness of everything, we do not agree, because here it is said that the Spanish Federation of Trans Persons represents 80% of these associations, and we have understood that the reading that Mr. Cal gave here from this rostrum is signed by a lady, called Mar Cambrollé, and curiously not here in Galicia, but in Andalusia, LGTBI entities criticize the pursuit of the role of Mar Cambrollé and ask for changes in the law: "We consider that Cambrollé is not legitimate to be spokesperson of the transsexual group from the moment he was expelled from the State Federation of Lesbians, gays, transsexuals and bisexuals by unanimity of representatives of the trans-region of this federation." We — I still insist — want to talk to everyone; we want to talk, we don't want a confrontation scenario. It seems that you are committed to saying that the people of the People's Group are thrifty, and we are not, but we want to please everyone, we want everyone to be united on this issue and we don't want to get confrontational scenarios that the only thing they pursue is to favor certain interests of certain people, but that, of course, they do not favour the trans-Galician collectives at all. [[Applause]] We begin with, ladies and gentlemen, with a law that we all approve; it does not happen with the bill that you bring to this House today and that it already counts with the lack of consensus among the collectives themselves, because some of the trans entities, as I have just read, do not feel identified with it, are completely disbanded from it, and consider that the manifestations that are being done these days do not represent the feeling of all the trans persons and their families, because many of them, ladies and gentlemen, consider an advance to the creation of a reference unit in this sense that we have just commented on, and that you are asking in article 20 of your law. We need to keep moving, of course, thinking, and we agree. They consider it a very important achievement to depatologize transsexuality. Denial is evidence of the politicization of this topic by some. We believe laws must unite, never divide. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved a consensus law in Galicia that protects LGTBI people and, in short, that protects trans people. Let's keep developing this law and keep moving in the same direction together and counting on all of them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Replica. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u65	Thank you, President. Well, nothing, a disappointment. What I don't know is that they're afraid of, I don't know what's wrong with this law, about taking it into consideration and getting to some presentations where we could make progress on the collective. It is reflected in Law 2/2014. I sometimes don't know if they really don't understand everything, I don't know if it's really that; maybe they don't understand it and they don't do it for lack of tolerance, but they're different legal objects. It does not have to see, of course, that the Law of 2014 in some respects also covers the trans collective, but this law is something totally different, based primarily on the principle of self-determination of gender, and on that it rotates, apart from the need for specific protocols in health, education and also on legal changes. They're totally different things. That's why we don't understand what they're afraid of and why they don't want to be able to move forward in defending the rights of trans people. Law 2/2014 does not cover most of the issues coming in this law. If it's true that there are some questions that you do, but most of the questions, the power stations, they're not collected. So it's an argument that yes, that they're using for that in this propaganda campaign, but I already tell them, sometimes, listening to arguments, I don't know if they really don't understand what they're talking about and what the collectives are proposing. They talk about the education protocol, it's a non-binding educational protocol, which is hung on the website. That's all you've done in the educational field, and they come here and celebrate that there are 12 centers -- of 1,200, and they come here and put it as if it were a great victory of this government -- that they're launching the protocol. Is that the great victory in education? In fact, there are a lot of centers that don't even know it exists; they don't even know that there is this protocol. [[Murmurs.]] It is hung on to the join page. If there is no one who has an interest, they don't even know it exists. And that's all your great action and your great commitment to education. He spoke plurally of campaigns such as "I respect." It's a campaign that's been carried out and it's been rejected by the entire LGTBI collective. That was your commitment to plural campaigns, as you say, that it was one. With regard to the conventions, yes, last year they signed the first agreement. As I tell you, it is something that is collected in Law 2/2014. It's a government obligation, you want to comply with the law and go do something, to apply something to this law, but, of course, a signature of an agreement that is finalist, that doesn't take into account the different jobs that you do or projects... it looks like a collective doesn't have any kind of activity and another one has a lot of activity, they don't worry about any aspect of this; and they have to do the expenses and justify them in a three-month period. They give the collectives three months to spend 3,000 euros and justify them. Is that all they have to do with the collectives? That's why I'm saying that what you're looking for is the headline saying signing a convention, because if you were really interested in projects, you'd see what projects, what organizations have the most interesting projects. Some may need more, some may need less and would allow them to have all year to develop them and deliver them to the first year. Why don't they give them up for the first year and let them use them all year round? Why do you think this year...? This year there were some associations... you said there were two associations missing. In Galicia there are enough more than four LGTBI collectives, not only four, missing enough more than four. Most of them, of course, were absent because they knew they were being instrumentalized to five days of this debate, but there were some who thought to go but who understood that with a period of three months they would not have time — and more in the summer period — to be able to justify them and that they already thought they would not look for them the way they were being delivered. You're using the email argument of the associations, which happened a few days before all of this happened; two associations of which one no longer exists, so it wasn't to sign the agreement, and the other is a delegation of a state association that demands a trans law and is against the segregation models. You are going to vote today, each one of you, individual people in your party, and what you press on that button is very important to all those people up there. Most of the trans collective wants this law, and you have the individual responsibility, each and every one of you, to get them to have a little more liveable lives. I ask them to take it into account and reflect on it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there are girls with vulva and girls with chicken. They add themselves to the defense of the rights of all people, they leave the bunker, they leave the blockade and they make it easier for trans people to have a more liveable life. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u66	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u67	Good day again. You just did something very ugly, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, very ugly. I don't know if it's a discursive strategy, if they've decided it among all, but it's ugly not only in political terms, I think it's a rather ugly decision in human terms trying to justify the failure of your group trying to divide or open a gap in the LGTBI collective, that's very ugly politically. Very ugly. [[Applause]] You didn't give a single reason, not just one argument, why they're going to vote against it on the basis of the own legislative proposal that we are debating here today. There are aspects that are collected in other instruments through protocols or the signature of other types of figures that have been moving forward in recent years. In my first intervention I believe that I was referring precisely to issues that were already collected, that in other struggles and that in other cases progress had already been made, and that this did not prevent us from, at any point of view, moving forward in legal reform and shielding by law right and moving forward in the struggle itself. Not a single reference was made to what is the most controversial aspect. What's the conflict? The conflict is, for example, that access to puberty blockers would be guaranteed. We know it's a debate out there, it's a debate, and it's a debate, and it's a lot going on in the health field. You are from this professional sector, we open this area of dialogue in Parliament, we deal with as long as it is necessary, from the point of view of what is necessary, those conflicting issues and we try to reach agreement. I'm sorry to say so, but it's pretty bad to say that you only do things per unit when we've just approved a reform of budgets by the rapid route, in a single reading process and without unanimity in this House, simply with the votes of the absolute majority of the People's Party. Every day in committee and plenary session are approved reforms of laws, draft laws, which do not count on the support, either outside or within the House, of a social majority or unanimity of the whole of the Greek people, and continue to move forward. Bills are still being approved, and proposals are still being taken into consideration, by the way, which come directly from the collective itself, in this case, without a sort of consensus that you now put almost as a sine qua non condition so they can vote in favour. I insist, today we are debating here the consideration of a law, not the adoption of the law as drafted by the collective itself. We don't want to change a single comma, not even the spelling grates, that with all affection and all respect I understand that there is speed, and many, but we don't want to change them because we respect the work that many people have done to bring this proposal here today. You constantly appeal to the 2014 Law, which is already done in days prior to this debate, so in the case of the BNG, we also focus our intervention on trying to dismantle certain cliffs that you know. That is, the Law of non-discrimination, of equal treatment for the LGTBI collective, does not depathology, does not depathology!, because it is neither written for it nor intended for it. It doesn't introduce any facility to change identity in identity documents, in identity records, or to access any kind of medical or health treatment, to none, because it's not meant for that, it was not drafted for that, but simply to ensure that I, if I go with my partner to a bar and kiss with another woman, I don't move my sticks in there. That's what that law was meant for. But we're talking about something different, we're talking about something different. [[Applause]] I just want to mention the people you're here today and the people I imagine will be at the door of this Horreo palace. You're not going to stop, neither are we. There were traps, we knew from the beginning that it wouldn't be easy. The historical fact that this is being debated here today, without complexes, is already a step forward. We'll keep moving. We can't go out of the way as fast as we want, but we've been moving forward. You're the impulse this House is moving, because if it wasn't for you, we wouldn't even be discussing this here today. So, to pull your arms, nothing, and we see each other in the streets, which is where they win and win rights, not just in parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u69	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, even though we sometimes come to agreements, it's not just that we're not equal, that we're radically different. As long as we legislate for the rights and freedoms of the LGTBI collective, you're opposed to it again. While we were riding up that coast of equality and freedom, you were pushing and fueling the bus to Hazte Hear. That's the reality. The German law is a law of minimums, a law that does not enter into questions that do come into this law, and has already been explained here. If it's the same, what do all these people have here today, a whim? Why do you need this law? Why do you want this law? You're still the same as you always are, because, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, expressions like those I noted, of: the laws have to unite, not divide, was the same as you said with the approval of same-sex marriage. They're still the same intolerant people, locked in a closet, exactly the same, though you bring here a flag of the collective, exactly the same. Those who don't act normally are you, not society, society wants and claims that we all have the same rights and public freedoms. And then, with all the respect you know I have. May meskinity come here to harm — as it were in some way — to put names and surnames, to talk about entities, to talk about activists, to people who are being beaten in the streets to fight for the rights of citizens and citizens of this country. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, reflect, because, of course, your intervention today is no less. You're still the same as you always are: "It's a government mania that looks modern, not a gay claim.", said the president of this country in 2005. We have to get rid of disgusting laws, someone said he was also president of the Galician Union. Today, the difference is that you make a political turn, from Mr. Feijóo's makeup, moderate, kind and half progressive, to the toughest and most radical wing of the People's Party. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in Murcia and in Madrid the People's Party abstained from a law almost like this one, and even in Andalusia they voted in favour. So that picture is completely disassembled that you want to sell moderately and half-progressively, because the progressives don't get here when they pick up and take this flag. To and to those there, tell you that today we have lost a great opportunity, that we have come — tell me — to hope and try as far as possible that the People's Party had thought about it. And also that this group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is not going down our arms, we never did. We're gonna keep fighting for your rights, for the rights of the entire citizenry, which is what we've been doing for a long time. Thank you. Thank you also for your patient work, for your respect that you always have, even if I don't want them. Thank you for your dignity, shown at every moment of this struggle. This is a battle, the war is too long. We're going to keep quiet every day. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the draft law of impulse to economic growth and reinforcement of social expenditure and amendment of Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. We begin by voting firstly on amendments to the whole. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. from In Marea to the draft law of impulse to economic growth and reinforcement of social expenditure and amending Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u71	We are now voting on the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which is an amendment to the whole of it with alternative text. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole with alternative G.P. text. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the draft law of impulse to economic growth and reinforcement of social expenditure and amendment of Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u72	We are now voting on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in its entirety, also with an alternative text. Voting the amendment to the whole with alternative G.P. text. of the Socialists of Galicia to the draft law of impulse to economic growth and reinforcement of social expenditure and amendment of Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u73	We now vote for the bill. We vote. Voting of the draft law on impulse to economic growth and strengthening of social expenditure and amending Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This legislative text is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u74	We are now voting on the proposal for a law of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, an integral part of Galician gender identity. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. In Marea, integral of Galician gender identity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour,38. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u75	We are now voting on the proposal for a law of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which is an integral part of gender identity in the Galician Community. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, integral of gender identity in the Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u76	We voted to take account of the proposed legislation of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia in its entirety of gender identity of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We vote. Voting of the bill in consideration of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, integral of gender identity of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u77	Open the doors, please, the votes have been completed. We move on to the second item on the agenda, which corresponds to the show in full. I pray the House services to accompany our guests. [[Applause]] The opinion of Mrs. Director of Infrastructure and Housing, on his own request, to report on the situation and prospects of the Galician Public Transport Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u78	The initiative of the parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block is accumulated at this meeting. The opinion of Mrs. Director of Infrastructure and Housing, at the initiative of the GG. PP. de In Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block, to explain the new scenario in relation to public transport of passengers and road travellers in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u79	To formulate the intervention in this audience, you have the floor of the Infrastructure and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come today at my own request, and also taking into account the request of the various parliamentary groups, to move and report on the situation and prospects of the new public transport plan in Galicia. It is a matter that is not new in this Parliament and that we have had the opportunity to explain and address at some point in this House. In the investment of the president himself was advanced by this one. I myself took note of this transport plan in the appearance of budgets; I went into further details of this modernization and reorganization plan when I came to Parliament in February to discuss the strategic lines of the Council in the legislation on infrastructure and housing, and we have recently responded to specific initiatives that the different parliamentary groups have formulated. So it's not a new matter to be dealt with in this Parliament, but today I wanted to be here to report on the current situation of a subject that we know is absolutely topical, and I think that the start-up of the first phase of this plan needs to be explained so as not to create wrong visions and of course unwarrantedly alarmist. A plan of silence and novelty like this a priori can generate uncertainties, reluctance or certain fears, but it is a public transport plan of Galicia essential, unappropriate, which is the guarantee of services and therefore also of jobs, and in the medium term, of course, we will see its effectiveness and its advantages. We've been working on this plan for a long time. He's taking up most of the Council's work and he's going to do it in this legislation. We have said on many occasions that we work and we will work to make this the legislating of transport and to make transport for today and for the future sustainable today and today and also for the next twenty-five years. I want to be clear with this transport plan, a plan that is designed not only to guarantee services, but to improve services especially in rural areas, so that in no case are transport services lost in rural areas, and to guarantee employment. It is also designed to ensure the future of small and medium-sized enterprises; a plan that is the only viable and legal alternative to secure services and also to guarantee employment from August. A plan that brings advantages to all. For children, because they have full guarantees, with a companion on every line; thus guaranteed school transportation. A plan that's good for our rural neighbours, increasing the services of our rural neighbours. A plan designed for workers, which is guaranteed by the subrogation clause, spoken, treated, debated and agreed with the unions, and also designed for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will increase their possibilities for tendering. To put this whole situation in a little context, I have to go back to virtually the beginning, not in 2007, but in the year 2009, where when this government arrives at Galicia in a few months, the European regulation that was known in 2007, even in 2005, was in danger of putting all the lines of transport in Galicia and also the 5,000 jobs in the sector at risk. We have brought this Parliament a law to continue these transport lines and also to ensure employment. This government has sought an immediate and reasonable response, agreed with the sector — I have to say agreed with the sector — to shield service and give employment stability to the new rules of play that mark Europe. An emergency that I have to say is caused by the inaction of others, because, of course, European legislation has been known for a long time since 2005, and of course since 2007, when the whole European regulation is known. We felt as our own risk that the 5,000 jobs would run, so we put on the table that law of the year 2009 and we started planning to reorder and modernize public transport in Galicia, being aware that the current system has become obsolete and that we have to respond to the real needs of our neighbours in Galicia and, above all, especially our rural neighbours, because it is for whom this plan is mainly designed. Last year the Supreme Court ruling put us back on the expiry stage, nullifying the extensions of those concessions and again jeopardizing services and employment. We wanted to shield up to 2019 the public service, which is fundamental to many people, and last summer we approved a law dialogue and agreed with the sector, Law 10/2016, to globally reorder the transport system, shield the lines and hence also the employment. A law that guarantees the interrupted provision of the service and that we were obliged to a new transport plan from Galicia to implement in 2019. A rule that allowed the legitimate right of companies to resign from the concession and could not continue to serve until 2019, requiring them to be serving for one year, i.e. until August 2017, when the Board will proceed to the adjudication of the new contracts. So we found ourselves with a law that, despite being a part of the law and in agreement with the sector, companies exercised their right to resign from certain services. They gave up over 570 lines of Galician transport: practically all Ourense, almost all Place and certain areas of Pontevedra and also of Coruña. So virtually all general transport concessions contracts of half the lines of transport across Galicia in August will no longer be in force, these transport lines will disappear next August. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, despite that law, which provides a two-year period for the adoption of the new Galician transport plan, it was necessary to implement a first phase by August this year, to ensure continuity of service and hence also jobs. The stage wasn't searched, of course it wasn't. We have a new European framework which prevents further extensions of the transport lines, a ruling by the Supreme Court and block resignations in the province of Ourense, in practically every place and in areas of Pontevedra and Coruña. So they had as a consequence a lot of the work we're doing, and we had to put the work planned for 2019 to August this year forward. We've been focusing all our efforts for a long time because our goal is to shield the service to users and also to guarantee employment. That is our irrevocable premise, the red line: to guarantee service to our rural neighbours and to continue to count on the public transport service beyond August, and also that workers retain their jobs. So it's not a sought-after scenario, we have the responsibility to reverse all these complicated, complicated situations in an opportunity to improve public services. That's why we designed, planned and continued to work with great intensity, with a clear roadmap, with a precise timetable, to protect and adapt public transport to the real needs of the Greeks. A roadmap where the first phase is from August, the public transport plan. If there's no plan, we won't have lines and we won't have a job. It will also allow us to test and adapt everything we see with the implementation of this plan for what we have to do in 2019. The second phase in 2019, this new public transport plan, to design new services. And, of course, the goal is to substantially improve the mobility of our rural neighbours. We are therefore faced with an opportunity to improve the situation of public transport in Galicia, and especially in view of the areas affected by these waivers, because they are the areas that most need public transport, the areas of greatest shortages, the dispersion of the population and the aging of the population. And at Junta we understand that this was a conjunction that we couldn't let go into the post to the point of a 21st century own transport model. Over the past year, we have focused on developing the first phase of the public transport plan. The objective, as I say, is that public transport services are operational next August, in the next month, and so in this first phase we divide Galicia into 6 areas; we plan the execution of these works; we analyze the transport that is currently available, thinking what we need for the future of transport and meeting real demands; we analyze the parish taking into account the various and disparate conditions, the great transcendence that they have in different areas of our rural community on the day of the fair, the provision of the sintrom in the health center, and the need to go to agricultural offices, to banks to withdraw the pension. Of course, we've been thinking about all this. In addition, last year we also developed a regulation to be able to implement at this first stage of public transport in Galicia, regulating and preparing the shared use of the different modes of public transport: general transport and school, with a procedure for the adjudication of new lines by legal obligation, after the resignations which have voluntarily presented certain companies. And also the possibility of competing. We have opened a regulation for the possibility of competing companies at UTE to ensure maximum participation. We also set up a transport expert panel to coordinate these different jobs. And since it couldn't be otherwise, we also held meetings with the different municipalities, with the different mayors, to address this planning with the close collaboration of the municipalities, which we consider, of course, essential. Inquiries of the municipalities, you come up, meetings with transport associations, also with the ANPAs, with the Fegamps, with the different municipalities, with private ones... a plan that I have to say is, of course, dialogue. We sit at the dialogue table, and we'll continue to be when it's in place, because we consider it essential to continue talking while this plan is in place. Of course, our commitment is participation and dialogue not only in the first phase, but also in the second phase that we have to implement in 2019. We have therefore identified the needs, the different demand axes in our territory, the offer of school transport to evaluate the synergies that we could take advantage of school transport, and taking into account all these conclusions, to all this work of many people for a long time, we lay the foundations of what is the planning of the new public transport plan in Galicia. First we bet on offering the transport lines with formal contracts to ensure efficiency, to rationalize and reordinate the work of transport, and we bet on the formula of the shared use of school transport and transport of passengers. Shared-use transport that has been operating in many autonomous communities for a long time. [[Applause]] There are many places in Galicia where we know the bus service is not profitable. In many of these places there are vacant school buses, so we want the advantages of school transportation to reach everyone who needs it. Smaller buses, safety belts, more inspections and also escorts on each line. We always defend that we don't want people without buses or buses without people. The German countryside has no future without public transport and public transport makes no sense, of course, without travellers. We believe in the integration of transport, of course we do; shared use is a good system to ensure services in rural areas, shielding, of course, the attention of schoolchildren. [[Applause]] And so it is understood by many other autonomous communities that have already implemented this system: Castilla-León, Asturias, Basque Country, Navarra; autonomous communities of different political colors that bet on a shared use of transport and autonomy that take us a long way forward. Of course, Galicia is the one who needs this transport model most, because we have the largest transport network in Spain, and we have examples like Castilla-Leon that is working with a remarkable success. This is how the Councillor of Castilla-Leon has moved him here in Galicia to briefings to the ANPA, explaining the benefits, the important social benefits, of this model of shared-use transport. At Junta we believe this is a model that will work successfully, as I say, and in Galicia, of course, more is needed than in any of the other autonomous communities. EUR 120 million is allocated to school transport. The largest school transport system we have in Spain we have here in Galicia, 40% of Spain's network we have here. We want to extend that benefit socially so that it reaches those most needed, to everyone in the world who needs it; a new model to allocate these 120 million euros and to serve all the Greeks who need it, to take advantage of these empty squares of school transport, shielding, of course, the attention of our children, to give them greater social use to that shared-use transport and to take advantage of these empty seats from school buses and to use a model transport demand in non-formal periods, ensuring, as I said, the companion figure in all and every one of the lines of transport, of shared-use lines. We'll increase the escorts to 146. So we're going to increase the number of escorts of the shared transport lines by 60%. [[Applause]] Starting from these bases, we submitted to public information the preliminary drafts in May and incorporated in plans, projects, approaches and proposals that were viable and feasible. I had the opportunity to meet with a lot of mayors, recently also with business associations, in Valdeorras, Viana do Bolo, Ourense, improving the plan day by day, with constructive visions, with constructive contributions, because we always understand that this plan, which is a very important plan that Galicia needs to rearrange and modernize service lines, must of course count on maximum participation. Our vocation is to dialogue and participation, with constructive approaches, and to improve the plan, increasing services and, of course, improving them to adapt them to the real needs of people and rural neighbours. We have held these meetings — you personally — with the unions and with the employer with the door open to dialogue, and since then working together is the key to success for this plan. That's, of course, how we understand it. Ladies and gentlemen, we can understand perfectly that every change can generate doubts and can generate uncertainties, uncertainties, but we must not forget at this first stage of the plan the resignations of certain companies and that therefore this first phase is motivated as a result of the resignations. Our obligation as public administration is to ensure the interest of all citizens and to resell the lines to guarantee the service to all users. And what can't be obvious either, ladies and gentlemen, is that the implementation of the Public Transport Plan has also added something that is pending today and that I would like it to be signed as soon as before, which are the collective agreements pending between trade unions and employers. That's also good for what we've seen in the last few weeks, and even today users are already damaged by a new day of strike, but let's not forget those pending agreements between employers and trade unions that I hope you can sign as soon as possible. The right to strike is sacred, but also the right to work, the right to education. Therefore, the failure to comply with minimum services since then we have seen him as totally insolid. From the German Government we have demonstrated readiness to dialogue, to negotiation, but always within the legal framework. The hand is stretched, and we will be the last to get up from the negotiating tables — the first to sit down, the last to get up at the negotiating tables — to sink into social and labor improvements. I think there has been progress, important progress and important agreements, approaching positions to guarantee employment, stability in employment and tranquility to the workers, who are the ones who are most worried about us today. [[Applause]] And so at the Board last week, green light was given to the hiring of new concessions, but ensuring the continuity of employment with a subrogation clause; full guarantees for employment, and also thinking about small and medium-sized enterprises. A worker subrogation clause, worked together with the unions. We would like, of course, to thank the unions for providing this subrogation clause. And we can say that we have a reference subrogation clause in Spain; a fundamental clause to guarantee workers' rights. We're even going further, and we anticipate as a cause of termination of the contract the failure to comply with subrogation obligations or the violation of workers' rights. Guarantees also for small and medium-sized enterprises, limiting the maximum number of contracts, awarded up to 25%, offering guarantees in labour and social conditions in workers from the subrogation and thinking of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will continue to work, continue and advance in the administrative process to have services and to secure jobs from the month of August. Today we are already taking a new step with the publication of the new definitive projects, of the 41 final projects hung up today on the website so that they can be consulted all over the world, by exercising transparency and responsibility as well. A project that collects trade unions' proposals, substantially increasing the budget of contracts to increase also substantially the amount for drivers and to ensure the full implementation of that subrogation clause worked together with the trade union forces. Tomorrow we will even start the tendering, hiring new services, bidding those contracts that we need in those areas where those more than 570 waivers of transport lines have occurred. And we are doing so in accordance with European legislation, in accordance with the Supreme Court's judgment and taking into account the resignations of transport companies to virtually 600 lines. It is therefore the only viable and legal alternative to shield and improve services in our rural areas from the month of August and protect jobs in the sector, which we will give them more workload and in a more orderly way. And our duty, of course unforgivable, is to defend the interests of all Greeks, the general interest in services and employment. We are talking about a plan with full guarantees for schoolchildren, more and better rural services, maintaining and guaranteeing employment and giving employment stability and, of course, thinking about the future also for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the essence of this Galician public transport plan that we're designing, where we're working. We want to double the number of stops for those people who live in rural areas, take advantage of the synergy that gives us school transportation with that model of shared use and allow two million Greeks not to be without transport and even improve that public transport and improve their mobility. We are talking about the only legal and viable alternative to have transportation from August and to have jobs from August; it is the only viable and legal alternative for jobs and to give stability and tranquility. A plan that we improve day by day and that we will continue to improve with constructive approaches, just as the unions have certainly enriched the meetings of the last days. I expect, of course, constructive approaches. We have a big challenge ahead, an important goal of the country, and therefore we will work for the general interest and give more and better services and benefits to rural people. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u81	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u82	Good morning, or good afternoon, I don't know what part of the day we're in. Welcome, Counsellor, even though he comes to this House bound by the situation of the conflict caused by his policy after three weeks of strike and after something that is a historic achievement, because you have managed to agree with the unions and employers and other sectors against the Transport Plan. So something must have done wrong to provoke this majority rejection that gave rise to this three-week strike. This appearance is certainly late, and I'm not saying it just for the hour we're at; I'm saying it's late because, as you just said here, it's all cooked up, it's all decided, it's going to be published in the DOG or the new contracts have been published in the DOG; it's all set up and, therefore, it's just here saying that we make constructive proposals. I don't know how you can understand this. So far they haven't counted on anyone, and now they're telling us to make constructive proposals, but of course we've done them here, we've brought them to Parliament and we'll do them again today as well. You had, of course, enough opportunities to come here to talk about this subject, you had another appearance, but you didn't want to come here to talk about this very issue, and that seems to us to be an example of obscurantism, lack of participation, lack of dialogue and lack of prepotence, because you're what you use is the "order and command" through publication in the CEO, without consulting anyone, which is, on the other hand, something that characterizes this government. And it's late, bad and drag. I think he comes alone in the face of danger. There's an image that illustrates it perfectly because you come here talking to the bank of the absent government; no one comes here to listen to it or to support it. This, I think, well illustrates the position you are in on this issue. The reality is that the management of this matter by the Council brings us many questions, many doubts, and generates, of course, a lot of social alarm, as we're seeing these weeks. You say, you said here, that you've been working on this subject for a long time, and the first question I want to ask you is, did you put it this way wrong on purpose or was it by chance? Because getting so many people against it, of course, it's not easy to overcome. And besides, this theme, the management of this theme, which is evidenced by the mismanagement of the Transport Plan in the past year, but also the mismanagement of the Council over eight years, because you can blame the impedance, I can blame other governments, but the reality is that you've been ruling for eight years and all this time they've been hiding the problem, and now they come at the last hour in a hurry and improvisation, trying to fix the matter. And, in addition, this highlights the situation in which the Council is in, the instability that also demonstrates disintegration, the fact that they have, in just over four years, four general directors in the Council. This is reality, and so this shows what's going on in his counseling. And also — as we have said on other occasions — I believe that everyone agrees — we too, of course — with the need for a new transport and mobility system in our country, because the current system is obsolete and ineffective, and this, of course, has a lot of responsibility for governments like theirs, who have been allowing this situation, making concessions over the last few decades. But what we don't agree with, what we're not going to compromise on, is that your proposal is the best. We don't agree in the background and we don't agree with the forms and we don't accept what you said here, that this is a quiet and new plan, when it's really, if it's for two years, it's an experiment, and an experiment that we'll see how it works. Of course, we do not agree in the ways, we do not agree in the improvisation and in the rushes they've been acting in the past few months, nor in the lack of transparency, dialogue and participation that they have shown throughout the process of processing this plan, and of course not in their pre-power and sovereignty. Of course, improvisation and haste are obvious, because you said you met with how many mayors, I don't know how many branches, I don't know how many collectives, but the reality is that they did all the processing of this plan in a record time, four or five months, when they helped the consultants' contracts. That's a lot to talk about, too. I don't have time, but there would be a lot to talk about these contracts, how they got paid for those contracts, and how it turns out that they make plans, studies and plans in just three months and publish them in the DOG four months. This is neither participation nor dialogue nor transparency nor anything; this is pre-power, sovereignty, imposition and lack of dialogue. Or the fact that they're helping you with nothing but half of these studies to a company, which is also a consultant to its own transport counsellor, in terms of mobility. Does it seem normal to you — I ask you this question — to present the preliminary drafts three or four months after you sign the contracts and that the same company that advises the Council would be the adjudicate of half the contracts? Does this sound like it, Counselor, normal? Well, the rushes and improvisation also explain the administrative upheaval that were these preliminary drafts, that were rejected, that were amended and that you yourself had to correct a lot of errors. And I wonder if they're going to pay the unions and the employers, who have shown them a lot of mistakes that they had these preliminary drafts, and if they're going to pay the consultants for the carpet they made. It also wakes us, of course, many doubts what you call "the integration of school transport into regular transport" and which are in fact regular services — let's make it clear — with reserved place for schoolchildren. And this has nothing to do with Castile-Leon. These formulas were already being applied here with TES+BUS, which could continue to be expanded in rural areas and which could be a solution, but not to implement a general solution throughout the country because, of course, I don't know if you valued the consequences, the problems that will be faced with this formula, especially in urban areas, with the mixing of regular transport and school transport. It also causes us many doubts about the unilateral termination of contracts in force until 2020 in the case of school transport. I do not know whether they have calculated — I ask you the question, too, I hope you answer me — the cost of compensation and corporate claims for the debts incurred by the Board, or the costs of all claims and the legalization that will be covered by this issue. And it also causes us a lot of doubts about the fact that you mix the concessions you renounced with the grants of school transport to apply the Accompanying Law. There are also a lot of legal doubts about this, and I think it may have serious consequences. It is clear that there are dark interests here, if not, things weren't done like this, with this lack of dialogue, with this lack of transparency. They're going to bring about a failure, a failure in jobs, a failure in the form of precariousness and timeliness in employment, destruction of business fabric and concentration of business in large companies. They're headed for monopoly. There are hidden interests here, and everything goes in the same direction that they're applying with other macrocontracts, like the case of ambulances or how they want to do with 065, that is, selling the country to the service of foreign interests. This outcome is responsible, Counselor, and the main responsibility is you. That's why we want to ask here, at parliamentary headquarters, for your resignation or termination, because you are the main responsibility for this outcome, and you yourself were disallowed by the President of the Board himself when he sent you to stop the negotiation and when, while you convened an afternoon meeting, you called her out because the following day they were going to be approved by the Board of the Board of Directors the criteria for the adjudication of the new contracts. This situation is a consequence of the pre-potency and also of the order and command, via the DOG, as you just said here. We are asked for proposals and it turns out that the contracts will be published in the DOG. And also the prepotence and irresponsibility of Mr. President of the Board, who has a great deal of responsibility on this issue, because he dared to accuse both the unions and the employers as nothing more and nothing less than the use of children and children as hostages, as a sort of kidnappers of children and children. It will therefore have serious consequences in the service, in employment, in the form of judicialization and in the form of millions of compensation. So what you're proving is your inability to negotiate, but to negotiate with the three parties, because this is the way to fix the situation: sit down on a table all three parts and not use the technique you use to divide and win. So there are alternatives, and we want to put them here today on the table. The first is the suspension of the processing of the plan; it is possible to do so. Secondly, the extension of concessions; it is possible and legal, declaring them public utility. And it has already been told to companies that accept the solution of not making economic claims for this new state of public utility declaration; of course, to create a real table of dialogue and participation in which the institutions are in, where the councils are in, where the society is affected by this issue, where the work part is also in, to make in real time, without improvisation and dialogue, a real transport and mobility plan for the twenty-first century. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u83	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Good morning, Counselor. The Greeks and the Greeks have the right to public transport, and the Galician Union has the power to guarantee this right, and you have assumed that responsibility in the Government of the People's Party. Welcome; good morning and welcome. Once again it had to be the opposition groups in this House who had taken the initiative in view of their lack of interest in overcoming the active resignation and exercising their responsibilities in transport, including giving explanations in this House, with the passing talk of the President. So you appear as you appeared just a year ago when there was the Supreme Court's judgement and the waiver of concessions. It was worth it to come voluntarily. We believe it's a subject you should come to on your own initiative both a year ago and now, but you didn't. He didn't do it because he was as uncomfortable as last year, who came to be questioned at that time by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We are aware that you like monologue more than dialogue, Counselor, and that attitude is not acceptable in a ruler. On the lines of action for the year 2017 of the Directorate-General for Mobility says textually: "The transport sector in Galicia is of enormous strategic importance, and it is true, by affecting across all sectors of production. It accounts for approximately 5% of Galicia's gross domestic product and generates over 5% of total employment". More than 300 road passenger transport companies and 5,000 workers in the sector well deserved and deserved another treatment and other attitude on their part. But Mr Feijó's governments have chosen the "order and command" as a political line of action, prohibiting the participation of experts, agencies, institutions in the transport sector, workers, Parliament and the affected. Thus, Law 5/2009 of 26 November 2009 on urgent measures for the modernisation of the public transport sector in Galicia was debated by the single reading procedure; an extraordinary and urgent procedure excluding the reports of institutions and bodies and vetoing the partial amendments of parliamentary groups. This law was the platform for attempting to undermine the European Union Regulation, which was consumed by the illegal Resolution of 26 February 2010 of the Directorate-General for Mobility, which approved the Plan for the Modernization of the Permanent Grants of Persons for General Use by Roads of Galicia. This resolution was annulled by the Supreme Court, and with it the extensions of concessions. It does not manifest, therefore, that you the Supreme Court has conditioned the regular transport in Galicia when anyone has conditioned it was the resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility. The Supreme simply said that resolution violated community law, nothing more. If there had not been that resolution, there would have been no Supreme's judgment. Is it easy to understand, or not? Counsellor, this was your inheritance, a law of unparticipated urgent measures, exclusive of the People's Party, Law 5 of 2009, an illegal resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility and Passivity and an indifference to really worrying public transport. And it did not seem uncomfortable in this scenario, because it took the alternative by failing to comply with Law 14/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the rationalization of the system of autonomous public transport, which in the additional provision of the second paragraph 3, says textually: " Within twelve months of the entry into force of this law, the Council of Galicia must elevate to the Galician Parliament a draft mobility law in which an integrated system of public transport of persons will be developed coordinating the various existing public transport networks". Obviously, he never introduced this Galician mobility bill, despite the fact that the Socialist Group has repeatedly asked for it to be included in the electoral program of the People's Party. Following this failure and following the Supreme Court's judgment, it resumed the erratic path of its predecessor: Law 10/2006 of 19 July 2006 on urgent measures for the updating of Galicia's public transport system, with the Transport Plan as an annex; an annex which, of course, limits the participation of bodies, institutions, Parliament, etc. And then the Resolution of May 29th of the Directorate-General for Mobility, which is subject to pre-project public information on the exploitation of public services for the regular transport of passengers of general use by road. The public knowledge of exploitative projects with only ten natural days to present allegations triggered a lot of criticism, uncertainty and certainty about their forms and funds. Once again, ten days for the claim, to make allegations. Obviously, participation is limited. Counsellor, it is certain that the sectors involved did not actively participate in the design of the plan because you did not promote your participation. You preferred a continuistic line of opacity and darkness. You've preferred an imposition of the plan and of consummated facts than a collaboration of the business sector, the labour sector, educational representatives, local administrations, society, etc. You've preferred to do an external, dubious legal task to develop a document with multiple errors and shortcomings; you've lost these years to develop a participatory, dialogueal plan with the strategic plan category. Counsellor, you've been able to counter the whole industry, businessmen and workers plan, and add a sector, education, a whole record, of course. Do you know the opinions about the plan of these collectives, unions? A marketing operation, abolition of jobs, layoffs and precarious work. Confapa opinions: We refuse to use school transportation with other travellers. The Fegamp: If we don't finance the transport of passengers, we load ourselves the rural. Transporter Federations: Catastrophic at business level, disastrous from the functional point of view. It's not a serious and rigorous study. Business fabric pearl in Lugo and Ourense, mainly. Counsellor, this is the situation you caused. You started this process with prejudices, more prone to confront than consent. Correct. It cannot continue with opacity and darkness in the singular adjudication process, preserving enormous discretion. You can't deprive children of their right to transport and make them a grant. We're not against using larger shared school transport, but under very strict conditions. What's wrong is that kids get into regular transport with a card to identify themselves, because then those who dominate aren't school transportation, who have rights aren't children, they're older people. You must recognize that it is a plan without rigor; without technical rigor, without economic rigor and without legal rigor. By the way, what budget does the rural transport service do in 2017? How much is budgeted in 2017 for this type of transport? In the amendment to the whole of the Act 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community, which was discussed this morning, the Socialist Group envisages an amount of EUR 6 million for the improvement of public services in rural areas for public transport. You voted against. A whole statement of their commitment to the rural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u86	And just in the time I'm left -- if I'm left, I don't know --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u87	Stop it, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u88	...just answering some of the questions they've raised before. You said it's an unattainable plan. Home!, after eight years, it's obvious it was time. A lot of work. We're tired of saying in this House, Counselor, get out of passivity, wake up, prepare the plan over time. A transport plan is a very complex issue. It's also a matter of country, it needs time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u90	Now they're doing the recovery of that wasted time, no more or less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u91	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u92	Then I'll answer some questions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u93	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u94	Now that I have my daughter Sabela very boring at home, without school, if I knew her, she brought this meeting of the advisor's contacts, because she came to tell us a fantastic tale, Counselor. Yes, jokes are the ones we hear here, yes sir. Here all this is the product of a series of natural and divine conjunctions, and nothing had to do with the evil actions of Mr. Feijóo's Government. That's what I call a story. And that's what the lady counselor came to do, as always. It's relevant to the mistake, but he told some truth. He said, "There are autonomous communities that take us a long way forward." He ran away, of course. You've ruled for eight years and there are autonomous communities that take us a long way forward. So, in a simple exercise of logic, you were late and the country was late for your lack of capacity and country project. He also said you were working day by day. It's true, it's the only horizon you know in public transport policy, day by day, constant improvisation. Every day they wake up with an occurrence, they put us more and more into the mud of a situation of legal insecurity. A story, you said. I know they can create fear of these changes. Of course, you came here as the paladin of political audacity and can generate fear. Home!, with its clear precedents it scares us, but really history is not as you described it here. The story is, if there is an annulment of the Supreme Court, it's because you voted in an illegal resolution that violates European Union Regulation 1370/2007. It wasn't a divine warrant, it's because you've taken an illegal resolution, and the opposition has already warned you. So that was the beginning of history, a wrong decision. But you didn't move a finger for public transport until March 2016. What is now urgent to have a transport plan of the 21st century, for you until March 2016 was not urgent, and they only acted from a judgement of the Supreme Court. From there the Supreme gave them another chance and we passed a law of urgent action a year ago. All that has to do with day to day transport is urgent measures to modernise transport. You can see how they plan. They go to all the laws we have and they're all urgent, urgent! because they're doing, improvising and not planning at all. You guys had another chance with that law. They made an incomplete, bad law; a law that had to be modified in the 2017 Budget Accompanying Act, where they assigned a full title to the Transport Plan to deal with the resignation of many companies that give up because they could, because you put us in a situation where they could do it. So we're in a worse position to negotiate with companies because companies know you've done the wrong thing, and therefore they can leave this country without public transport. Of course they can leave this country without public transport, but it's your responsibility. And not happy with that, they just published a resolution on July 6, implementing complementary criteria for the integration of transport that I already warn you, Counsellor, that will put us again into legal security problems. I already warn you that it will happen what happened to your resolution, because you, in your continuous improvisation, have put criteria to which we can share objectives, but which have no normative support. They have no regulatory framework for the European Regulation or the laws that you have passed here, because they're improvising, because they tell them something today and tomorrow they want to make a settlement to patch up; patch after patch. Warning, as you've already warned here what could happen to that resolution. You fannares and the gales and the gales pay for them. Sixth day of transport strike. The costs of the negative consequences of their policies have been paid to citizens, the costs of Box C. You have the accounting A, your complex accounting. They have box A, where they always count. A box B, which is better not to know. And a box C, which is that of the citizens, with whom we pay their mistakes and their political joys, be the sanitation of the banks, the crack of the yellow boxes, the fiscal amnesties or their brilliant management in the case of passenger transport. You have the strategy of desplanization, constant improvisation as a tactical solution. A meditated solution for transportation? No, a patch. The opposition is offering you, even today, that we stop and do things well, and you prefer to keep patching, with a proud attitude never to listen to what is being said to you; never, Counselor. How can you come here and not doubt, and say that this is the only alternative — I have written it — the only legal and viable alternative? Of course, it's always your only alternative. And with the precedents he has, he goes on, he goes wrong, saying that this is the only alternative. No, there's an alternative to stopping and opening a real dialogue table where business and trade unions and government are not alone. This is about opening it more, because citizens, municipalities, Ampa, etc. are involved. We have to open a dialogue table and do, for the first time in a long time, the right things. I'll tell you, when you're in the opposition, everything that another government approves is sick of legal insecurity. The world no longer spins because the People's Party doesn't rule and there's legal insecurity. In 2010 you were ruling, and that effective extension, most effective, that you once again defended here, of concessions was all legal certainty. He even told the Supreme Court that it was not, that it was actually a legal sham that contradicted European transport regulations. And now -- I repeat -- it's the same thing and it's going to happen, it's just that you kick forward and you'll see the problems in a few years. You were aware that this was not the way. There was a complaint from the National Competition Market Commission since 2010 and you, on the other hand, have not yet planned this 21st century transport plan. They gave them a new chance and let her escape. They decide without dialogue or with little dialogue. With little dialogue, with little foundation, without thinking about the consequences and with much arrogance. This plan has total rejection, Counselor; you are forced to continue improvising. You, who are unable to dialogue, are disabled to find solutions unless you change them, who recognize the errors, because you were unable to open the dialogue. You came here to deny the opposition when we told him you weren't talking. And you came here to tell us to establish dialogue with companies and unions. He came, he had all the unscrew, Counselor, not even unscrew. They left zero and came here missing the truth. We want a plan as well as Galicia, not Castile-Leon. We don't want a plan to suit Castela-Leon. Galicia is not Castile-Leon, and we do not want the rural areas of Galicia to be like the rural areas of Castile-Leon, Counsellor. If you seek inspiration from the policies of Castela-León, they will write a good transport plan for Castela-León, it will work well in Castela-León. But the best advice for innovation that they can receive is that they start by accepting Galicia's own reality, our sector, our rural and our cities, and they don't get fascinated with universal solutions. They are based on the specific needs, the situation, the evaluation of the transport plans implemented, the support of the experts, the collective intelligence. They invest in political initiatives and dialogue, and not in their policy of R & D+i; i.e. improvisation, lust and imitation of Castile-Leon. Look, Counselor, we don't banish the subject. It's not an easy problem to solve; whoever says it is a frivolous one. The Galician transport plan doesn't need an easy reaction or easy solutions, as you're selling. Many variables need to be reformed in an obsolete line plot. We must consider the demographic and economic consequences, we must ensure transport coverage in order not to increase the problems of demographic decline, the desertification of rural areas. We must invest in connection to the territory and access to educational and health services. I mean, it's not easy, but it's not easy to do worse than you. You had abandoned essential aspects to have a crafted country, where it was much easier to implement solutions for public transport. You, who want to isolate problems, come here to deny that the country's administrative and political disarrangement is a major drawback for having an effective transport plan now. Not to be used by you, simply for election political interest, by supra-municipal entities so necessary to provide the appropriate scale of these services. And you're suspended from this, completely suspended, because you've made a clause in Abel Knight's Accompanying Law. They always do this, they always put this in supra-municipal entities; clustering municipalities, I think it says exactly. Well, although you've made an anti- Abel Knight clause, you also use that formula to talk to the Town Councils and articulate where that solution can be found. I don't know that the former Director General of Public Administration is laughing. It's a little embarrassing for you, after the paperwork they've made! Territorial policy: Sardinian-Cotobade, Oza-Cesuras, that's your balance, and so we have the country. Laugh, laugh, all right! They have 41 Members, and that's why everything you've done is fine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u96	And his work in front of the general address was also to laugh. That's how you are today without the general address...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u98	...even when the platoon is as low as that of the government's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u99	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u100	... Popular Party. A disaster. Don't come here to tell stories, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u101	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u102	We're not going to resign now. Now we have to get this country out of the problem you've put in. But I think you should think about yourself later if you've been up to what this country needs. We don't think so. But the priority now is that at least you recognize some of the mistakes they made by taking that illegal extension resolution, which violates European law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u104	...and the constant improvisation and chapuza that you have made.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u105	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u106	From there, we can find solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u107	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Counsellor, good morning and thank you very much for your presence, Mr. Fernández, your own request also and by the groups. Despite what we just heard with the BNG voicers, I want to tell you it's here very well-furnished. Not only were they driven by their government, but they were also cast by the main opposition group. And, above all, it's rusted, not even five minutes ago, by public statements from the highest representative of the Government; well-rolled by all and, above all, by the citizens. [[Applause]] It hurts because, of course, those who are alone are others. Well, just not, they're always in the hands — in this case especially — of these big companies, which are the ones that... it hurts, it hurts! [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry, don't worry. But look, look, look... ask her there. [[Applause]] I can see it hurts! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u109	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u110	They still have a lot to hear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u111	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, you're in the debate, then you'll talk. Quiet. Talk to me later. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u112	As the counselor said, it's a difficult subject, it's a matter of transcendence and importance to Galicia, but I have to say, honestly, it's a pity, a great shame, to see the role that is making the opposition on a topic of this transcendence to Galicia. Honestly, when it comes to general interest, we rarely find opposition groups, very rarely. And I'm telling you that there are moments, there are laws, there are plans like this, where an opposition has to stop trying to win some votes, it has to stop trying to wear out the government and it has to get to work in the general interest, in building a country. And you're never when there's an important issue like this. Besides, look, with positions like this, what they're showing is that they have no confidence in getting to rule, they have no confidence that they can be an alternative to government. With positions like their own, citizens will never see them as an alternative to government, because, as I was saying to them, there are times when we have to have constructive options and build a country when the issues are important. [[Applause]] Look, what they're really showing is that they don't care at all about the Italian countryside. To speak now of suspending the plan and extending, when they know it's illegal, is to leave 1,700,000 Greeks, especially in rural areas, without transport from August. That's where this People's Group won't be, because we think it's important to be as the counselor is, with height, with generosity, with dialogue, with transparency, to work for a transport in rural Galicia with equality for all, and that's where the German Government is working and where we never find the opposition. [[Applause]] Look, listening to him, I say, this is known. And of course, I'm starting to review, I'm taking the announcement from the big companies of the employer, and I can almost read it literally, I didn't need to prepare or... here's your script. Those, really, are the interests they're defending. Those, the same as the employer and the big companies. What a coincidence! When the counselor needs some help because they're trying to push, there, as I said, they're never you. And it's shocking, the truth is, it's shocking, after hearing them so many times that we help companies, that you are the voices, and that they also take the same literary arguments as the big ones — not the small ones, but the big ones — companies in the sector. This is the reality we found them in. A few days ago the Marea Group presented to the Commission a non-legislative proposal to draft a German lobby law. Wouldn't that be what they wanted her for? Now we're already seeing it... you've voted all the left over that Welsh lobby law... I'm afraid and I hope it wasn't to use it as we're seeing in these statements recently. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And look, last year we had to write -- as already mentioned here -- an urgent law. You weren't. This legislation was also missing — they did not appear, in what we have been doing on this subject — until three weeks ago, when they stood on the company's side to wear down the government. They still don't really show up at the bottom of the matter, and I'd like to ask you, Counselor, if now that you show so much interest in these opposition groups you can tell us if there was any approach to this plan, if there was any suggestion, some proposal, because the only thing we just heard here is illegal, manifestly illegal, as everybody knows, and leaves 1,700,000 Greeks without transportation in August. Therefore, since they are so interested, the truth is that I would like to, Counselor, to have told me if there was any contribution. I'm afraid the aim of having a good plan isn't what the opposition chases, and that they won't be there and they haven't been. I would also ask them to recapcitate and correct their actions, because this subject, a subject of so much difficulty, transcendence and importance to the country and to rural Greek, needs everyone, and also needs to change their approaches on this subject. He said the other day the vice president of the Government on the topic of Ferroatlantics — but it applies to this and to all of Galicia — that the Greek Government will not allow any pressure from anyone — no one — and he will try to keep working for the good of the Greeks and the Greeks, which is where we can't find them. I heard the groups that when they ruled, they hid their heads and their problems. Because, of course, they like to talk about the world beginning in 2009 with the arrival of Feijóo. The change over the previous four years began, but this — as the advisor has now pointed out — began in 2007 or 2005, and in 2007 it was already known that these had expired. What did they do? Nothing. Then they complained that an emergency law had to be made. Man, if they arrive in summer in the government and finish the concessions in December, there will be an urgent law. Or did they want what they want now, to leave the rural people without transportation? Of course we must make urgent laws. What happens then? Of course, they knew that they had to, but they didn't want to get into a difficult subject, which they recognize is complicated. As always, it is up to the Government of the People's Party to fix things that they dare not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, what you've done these years is work. I mean, there were those concessions and there was a need to make changes. Now for a renunciation, a sentence and a renunciation, a sentence, not a denial, of a law that had to be made by urgency... because of the urgency why? Because the Bipartite didn't do it. Especially the resignation, because if we didn't, we would still have the transport concessions now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The renunciation of all these lines by the concessionaires is what forced us to move forward and continue to work on this global remodeling with important incorporations. And there is no rush or improvisation, but the obligations to be made. And it has also been — and I would like to take this opportunity, Counselor, to congratulate you — with enormous participation, transparency and dialogue. And it goes with dialogue. Last night at 11 o'clock, he made a deal with the unions. It's still at 11 p.m. last night. And he'll keep talking -- as he said publicly here -- he'll keep negotiating until he needs to. But now the negotiation has to be between the companies you defend and the unions, to see which side they're on tomorrow? See you this afternoon, when you have to agree on companies and unions. Because now the problem is at the table this afternoon that the unions have with the companies, to see if you're following on the company side, or if you're going to put yourself on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks, and on the side of the citizens and Galicia, which is what we all want. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u113	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Replica, Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u114	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, no hidden interest, public interest above all. And of course it's always been public interest. [[Applause]] Some, like Mr. Sánchez, have already forgotten the rural one, and Mr. Raúl Fernández. And of course I asked for my appearance. You haven't heard from more than 500 — almost 600 — transportation waivers that happen this August. Express refusals, of course, that if: "I request that, having this written document submitted, the pure and express waiver of the continued operation of the public service of regular transport for general use, concession...". Renunciation to materialize next August. So we've been taking the initiative since the first minute, my surprise is why you guys looked somewhere else. You must have heard of these resignations the other day, so you now agree to the Public Transport Plan. Welcome to the concern for Galician public transport plan. It's never too late, it's never too late to worry about the public transport plan and the company's resignations last year. [[Applause]] They show a sudden interest when they suddenly appear in the press. You were talking improvisation here too. Improvisation of the opposition. That's improvisation. You didn't remember public transport at all and didn't remember the resignations until the other day. That is improvisation, of course, of the opposition. Mr Bará, the rest of the lords too, spoke of a lack of dialogue. Dialogue is the key to success, we all know it. Of course, we know it in the German Government, so we had meetings with the municipalities and street searches with the federations, with the unions, with the ANPAs, dialogue with everyone who wants to dialogue, of course yes. School transportation is guaranteed, no one can doubt it. It doesn't disappear at all, nothing disappears. It will even be better, with more guarantees, more security; in all transport lines there will be a companion, on the lines of shared transport use. [[Applause]] And they never cared about the Public Transport Plan, nor when they ruled in the Bipartite. No, no, no, not at all. The Community directives were already known in 2007 and did not do anything, even when companies submitted the resignations. They heard the other day of the resignations, the nearly 600 resignations of the companies. They didn't worry about the company's resignations last year, which put employment at risk and put transport lines at risk and materialized next August. At the risk of services and therefore at the risk of employment with the waivers of transport. He didn't worry about anything when I spoke in Parliament about the Public Transport Plan, talking about the Council's strategic lines, or when the public information was submitted. Mr. Fernández Prado, of course the opposition did not make a single claim or constructive proposal during the public information period. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! They started their interest when he started going out in the press, and making noise with the other people's concerns. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, making noise with the concern of others is what you are doing, not entering the bottom of the plan; without entering the benefits of rural life — Mr. Sánchez, you have forgotten the rural, of course — without thinking about the benefit of workers, of small and medium-sized enterprises, of schoolchildren as well. And we are here to guarantee public service, for the public interest, and to ensure jobs, job stability and the tranquillity of workers, working for the reorganization and modernization of public transport. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We know from the entry of the European Regulation, we know from the decision of the Supreme Court, and we want to shield services and employment by 2019. And you didn't find out, until the other day, about the resignations of nearly six hundred general transport lines that leave all Ourense, almost all Place and part of Pontevedra and the Coruña without general transport from August. Those lines disappear and we're here to guarantee public service and hence employment, starting in August. That's why we had to speed up this public transport plan — the first phase — to keep employment and services; if we materialize these resignations, more than 500 workers working on those Iranian street lines; and that doesn't matter? And I insist again that this is the only viable and legal alternative, of course!; we are not here to violate the European regulation, as some propose. Mr Bará talks about extensions!; but do you not know what prevents the European regulation? Prorogations, compulsory public service. Prorogations!, European legal imperative and, therefore, we have... that is what prevents the European regulation, Mr Bará; don't ask me to violate the law, please don't ask me to violate the law in the German Government. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So we're not here to do anything illegal but to guarantee transport, to stabilize employment and to guarantee it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They're telling me to withdraw the plan; what they're asking is that Galicia is out of transport in August. Either they're asking for this or they're asking for illegality; and we're not doing illegality, we're not giving concessions to what they're proposing, because the concessions of a public service don't get their finger, as they're proposing here. And we're here working so that from August on we continue to have public transport in Galicia; even better, improving public transport in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] We will draw up the tendering of contracts which will end — it is our obligation — by complying with European standards, fulfilling the Supreme's judgment: it is the result of your resignations the other day. Of course, we'll keep working wisely. If you're asking for the withdrawal of the plan — I insist again — you, of course, are standing on the opposite side of the general interest, so that people are out of service and that jobs disappear. Do you want to leave two million Greeks without general transport in Galicia: all Ourense, part of Lugo, Pontevedra and also part of the Coruña? Of course, this isn't a whim, it's absolutely no whim. We are shielding the rights of users; also of workers, incorporating a reference subrogation clause!, which guarantees the stability of jobs, for the absolute tranquility of workers. And, of course, our duty is -- within responsibility -- to continue with the only viable and legal alternative, because, when I say so, it is because it is: it is the only legal and viable alternative, to guarantee services and jobs, to keep the bus lines; that there are lines, that there are buses and therefore there is work; improving, in addition, substantially, rural mobility; betting, of course, for the shared use of transport, thinking about our rural neighbours; using these bus lines, these empty school transport squares; the neighbour of a village... — bring back here Ponticeso, my village, where I created myself, of course -- or the grandfather goes with his grandson, who takes the bus, who shares that transport service so that the child goes to school and the grandfather goes to the health center, of course. Does that sound so bad to you? It seems good to me, of course: sharing, conciliation and intergenerational coexistence. Advantages for the whole world, shielding, of course, the attention and needs of the student: intact the hours, intact the stops and intact the travel times, and with a companion in each of the lines; guarantees greater than those indicated in the law, because a companion will be in each and every line of the shared transport routes; increasing in this 10% the school transport, which will be for shared use, in 146 the number of escorts; thus increasing the number of escorts by 60%. So the 100 million euros devoted to school transport have to reach all of them to give them greater social use, so they can use it to all the people who need it: the rural population, the older people in rural areas, who will see, of course, their mobility improvements tripled. And, of course, the guarantees offered by school transport, I would like to stress again the advantages of school transport, which can be used by rural people: younger buses, safety belts, escorts, higher inspection. And the school transport, the transport for our children, to go to school, will continue to be free, of course, because that transport is guaranteed. And we will establish a single short ticket per county, of 1.40 euros. And, of course, full security, taking into account the indications of the Juridical Council of the European Union and complying with European legislation; they do not propose me here, of course, to make extensions, which is a clear failure to comply with the rules, of the European Regulation: to violate the law, of course not. It's the new rules for the game that Europe sets up. Shared-use transport is not a political colour theme; it is philosophy, the model of shared-use, in Castile and León, in Asturias, Basque Country, Navarre and more and more and more. It's just that it's not a model of any place, it's not in political colors the model of shared use; it's to think about the improvement of the mobility of our neighbours. Of course the changes always scare you, I don't know why you're surprised to say this; and we'll often continue to explain the new Public Transport Plan; and we'll continue to hold meetings, we want to make public transport sustainable today and tomorrow, make it sustainable today and tomorrow. It's the future of our rural, it's good for everyone: for rural people, for children, for small and medium-sized enterprises and also for workers, because they will all benefit from this new transport plan. And we're also mixing here a problem that you didn't mention -- it seems you can't mind -- the pending agreement between employers and trade unions: I hope it will be signed as soon as possible. You, of course, haven't mentioned it; it's a very important issue in the situation we're currently in. The only intention, of course, of the Greek Government is to guarantee and preserve employment, more workload, more orderly. We will increase the workload by 5%, and we will, of course, reorder the way in which drivers and industry staff work; by seeking, in addition, to give peace and stability to each of the jobs; by that subrogation, worked together, which is of state reference, with a degree of unpublished detail; by working conditions, thanks to meetings with the unions: we are talking about that we have included clauses and, of course, measures of great social and labor lock, reaching the maximum legal parameters to which we could reach and including an important increase in the budget so that this subrogation clause — the most important — is economically armored. And organizing concessions for zonal contracts, 41 zonal contracts; the easiest thing for us, of course, would be a contract per province, but we're not doing it because we think it's the best. And thinking also of small and medium-sized companies, to encourage participation, which can be presented in UTE, limiting the number of contracts awarded to 25%. And in the next few days — I hope tomorrow — we will send the invitation to companies. Provide job service guarantees, protect the Italian business fabric. And with the competition that will exist — which, of course, will be effective — and for us to have services in the next 24 months. You don't like this plan? I ask you don't like this plan. Don't you like to have a companion on each line? Don't you like us substantially improving our rural mobility? Don't you like to implement transport to demand in non-leuktive periods? Don't you like the shared transportation and sharing these empty squares with rural people? Don't you like 2 million Greeks to have a stop to take the bus next to your house? Do you not like the social clauses of great silence that we speak of and that we agree and work together with the unions? Is that what you don't like? I want to think that yes, of course, that's the real policy: to work for services and to get jobs, because the resignations materialize next August 8th. We've been working with a lot of people for a long time and collecting all the necessary mechanisms. Pre-projects may have mistakes, but for that there is public information, for transparency and for improving technical documents and, in the whole plan, what we can improve will continue to improve it. And, of course, open doors to dialogue who wants to dialogue, thinking about the future of transport — today's transport and tomorrow's transport. And we're in an extremely important project that we're all going to have to build, I insist that it's the only legal alternative. Here what they did to me was illegal alternatives, extensions, which is to violate European legislation. And, of course, we're not going to accept proposals that put transport at risk from August and jobs. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u115	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u116	I am moved by your performance or, better said, by your over-acting, Counselor. I don't know if they'll end up naming her for a Master Mateo Prize; I don't think so. And I was also impressed by the defamation of the spokesperson for the People's Party, who dared, no less or less, to blame the opposition here and ask him for cooperation and ask him to come up with you. When you use the "command and command", you ask us for cooperation and proposals, and you find that they approve the plan at the board without consulting anyone. And even today the advisor has just said that they will publish the new contracts in the DOG and no group — I know — of those who are here in the opposition consulted him. So, I don't know, you're the group of order and command, of prepotence and sovereignty. They ask for constructive attitudes, but the reality is they don't count on anyone, you don't count on anyone. The truth is they have the absolute majority, but they don't have the absolute truth or the absolute reason. And by this way they go on their way to have the prepotence and absolute sovereignty, that's where you're going. And, of course, the spokesperson for the People's Party also spoke to us here of a sort of conspiracy theory saying that the People's Party defends workers and that the opposition defends companies — it's confused with companies — Well, I'm going to tell you what BNG stands for: BNG defends work, defends quality employment, defends a public transport service at the turn of the 21st century. It also defends the rural business fabric, that fabric of 300 small and medium-sized companies that work in our rural area. Because, of course, you say this is the legislation of the rural, but it must be the legislation of the annihilation of the rural because, on this way, you're going to do what you're going to do is end the rural. You defend hidden interests, defend interests other than large companies, and we're on our way to that monopoly. And it's nothing new, because they've already experienced it and they've done it with ambulances. And there we have what happened to the concessions and the monopoly that has a company, by the way, very much about the People's Party. And as history has been made here, you have to remind them once again that we're here, we're in this mess, we're in this improvisation, we're in this experiment, we're in this mess and it's not because of the opposition. You always blame others, but it's not because of the opposition, it's because of the decisions that the Government of the People's Party has made by making those illegal concessions, those extensions that it has brought down the Supreme Court. We're also here, in recent months, for improvisation, for the rush and imposition of the People's Party. And, of course, the counselor presented us here with an almost apocalypse scenario of drama: this is a very clear manipulation. You said, "If you don't approve of this plan in August..." well, you've already missed your bills, because you said that 2 million people -- the spokesperson said 1,700 -- are going to be without a bus: this is fake, you know perfectly there are other alternatives, there are other solutions. Of course, what you didn't say is that the processing of the laws, the processing of the plan, the processing of the studies — also! — which cost EUR 800,000, is a real chapuza: it is full of mistakes and creates enormous legal insecurity. We have already talked to you about the lack of technical rigour, the lack of economic rigor, the lack of information — and we have about these projects: we do not know the lines that will definitely exist, we do not know the costs, we do not know how this integration will work between school and regular transport — we have told you that this is not Castile and León. And we also know perfectly well that there have been resignations, Counsellor; but they have been renounced to regular lines, they have not been renounced to school transport. And you're going to have complaints: you're going to have, of course, legal claims and you're going to have to pay large compensation for this issue, as well as for what it owes to companies according to the agreements they've been taking with them over the past few years. So our proposals are clear, we have already told you — we urge you again — we offer you dialogue, we offer you negotiation, we offer you agreement, but you have to take the initiative. We think that such a suspension is possible, we think that such an extension — I insist — is possible by declaring those contracts, these concessions, of public utility: it is possible to do so. And we would, of course, have more time than you are using — in a hurry and improvisation — to reach a great country agreement on this issue, which is really a vital and fundamental issue for our future. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u117	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u118	Thank you, Mr. President, again. It is true, Counsellor, that public transport by road is at a time convulsed and clichéd, as a result, no doubt, of the lack of a strategy and a design consensually by the German Government to put in place the new concessional map. It is also true that they have had more than enough time in recent years to proceed more actively and not to be watching. We have constantly denounced his passivity over these years and followed him by saying: that was to worry about the transport situation. That lack of foresight resulted in the abandonment of numerous concessions by many companies and that it is now necessary to turn to the Board for urgent adjudication process, using an abnormal form of emergency and reserving the Executive discretion in the adjudication of dubious legality. In this context it is understandable the concern that from the labour, business, education and even institutional — the municipalities — are causing the decisions of the German Government. There was a need for a real and prior process of participation and collaboration, which was not provided by the Government, with representative trade unions and associations of businessmen in the sector, with the educational world and with the municipalities, as administrations who are better aware of the needs of the transport of the neighborhood. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been ten years! since the knowledge of European Regulation 3070/2007, which conditions the adjudication of the concessions for regular transport; it has passed eight years since its entry into force in December 2009; and it has passed seven years since the illegal resolution — February 2010 — of the Directorate-General for Mobility: lost years for the lost opportunity. Eight years lost because it didn't advance in the model, because it didn't advance in the design, because no complicities were stirred up to work on the new map of concessions; eight years of passivity, disinterest, carelessness; and one year to careers to recover lost time, a time that the advisor used to monolog instead of dialogue; to have a similar attitude to what he just had on this stage: repeat, repeat, repeat, repeat... The final result, of course, is disappointing: an improvised model, a constantly changing attitude and, the transport plan documentation, lacking technical, economic and legal rigour. I know that the technical study is corrected because it was not able to compare at least with the Ministry of Development Cost Observatory guide. I know it's fixed, they fixed it today. Counsellor, the plan is an endless succession of errors, the product of their improvisation, their lack of dialogue and their rejection of contributions. It is time to correct it if you cease to consider this matter as a personal matter and exercise as a responsible advisor to transport in Galicia. And I want to answer some other questions, too. Look, if the European Regulation was already known in 2007, you will be perfectly aware that in 2005 the Regional Planning and Transport Adviser was Mr. Núñez Feijóo. It's funny that he comes in 2009 and has to go to the races to do something—it's funny!— On the other hand, those who lived with illegality were you, with their illegality: we all lived together, but illegality was yours. Look, in transport, the TES+BUS: are you perfectly aware that during the bipartite there was already TES+BUS, or are you not aware? He's perfectly conscious. But in very clear conditions and with always a student's preferred right, not the right of regular transport. See how it was done: in 2007, 12 municipalities, 34 routes; 2008, 34 municipalities, 113 routes; end of 2008, 53 municipalities joined, 203 routes; 2009, 93 municipalities joined, 354 routes. No footprint, Counselor. For that, you have to go down to the territory, you have to go to the countryside. By the way, I asked you before what amount of money has been allocated in the 2017 budgets for urban transport? He didn't answer me. I'll tell you?: zero euro, zero euro dedicated to rural transport, Counsellor, Euro Euro! For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u119	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u120	Breathe! In the face of the defeat that we are witnessing in public transport, the People's Party comes here with two arguments: one, that we, the opposition, stand up for the purely business and interests, and the People's Party defends the general interest; according to the argument, that you defend legality and we want to commit illegalities. Two very credible arguments, yes sir!: we defend companies. We didn't get bottles of Vega Sicilia to the house — I don't know if that was corporate pressure — not to me; to Mr. Feijóo yes, to Mr. Rueda yes. I don't know if they felt pressured, but in that case they didn't return them, it doesn't appear they returned them. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if that was corporate pressure — please — but I didn't get bottles of Vega Sicilia. [[Murmurs.]] Several years, when decisions were made that benefited companies — and above all Monbus — Mr Feijóo and Mr Rueda received bottles of Vega Sicilia of 600 euros; we, no. Of course, it's very credible, we defend companies and the accused party defends the general interest; the Gürtel party, Punica party etc. It is the party that has nothing to do with companies and defends the general interest: I believe! It is also very credible that we defend the commission of illegality, if the People's Party, which has done what and what they have done to it... Mr. Fernández Prado, you have to know what is being said: the law of 2009 has not been annulled; I don't know if you know, but I tell you, the February 2010 resolution has been annulled, okay? If we don't know the basics, it's hard to debate. Anyway, you've come here nothing but to barter the field and insult: that's what you came to. But they canceled the February 2010 resolution. Yes, sir, the face you have when you come here to say that! Well, and they have been annulled by a resolution that you signed, it didn't force them to the opposition. At that time, the opposition and people in the sector warned that it was illegal. The National Competition Market Commission did not report that they were dangerous reds. He denounced in 2010 and you remained in the paralysis, without saying, "We have adopted this resolution, but we are going to work on adapting to the European Regulation." No, until March 2016 you didn't react; therefore, very little believed those arguments. It's impossible that this outcome will be arranged if you come here to deny the evidence. They'll get us back in trouble — I already told you — but we'll pay you all and you don't care. If a company resorts to its recently published chief resolution, we will pay in a few years' time, Counselor. The wounded are not you, the injured we are the ones who will have to pay the responsibilities for their decisions. And those responsible are rural people, who, between the transport plan and the total absence of politics and a country project, see how they get more and more alone in rural, with less rights. They are also able to deny the situation of abandonment and aging of the rural, caused, among other things, by not having a comprehensive policy, where a transport policy is also integrated that does not seek to be Castile and León, which has population densities of 10 inhabitants per square kilometer in many areas and we here are not down from 90. What do we want, to reach the limits of Castile and León and that's why we adopted its model? And you're able to deny that and say that you're doing everything very well; even if the data says otherwise, even if the Supreme Court says otherwise, you'll come here to tell us that we're the ones that work for companies. Look, those who are taking advantage of businesses are you: if companies have a position of force — because it is true, Counsellor! — it is true that on 8 August, companies can give up and leave rural transport unhindered. Of course you do! What day are we, Counselor? And that's a good position for a government to negotiate? No, it's an optimal position for companies to cut off, but that situation has taken you with your improvisation and incompetence: that's what's going on, of course! because you can legally give up and you don't have any instrument to do anything to them, because it was caused by your decisions. So less arrogance, less arrogance, less insults to opposition and more error. And from there we work on a transport plan that interests, above all, those we love this country and that we want the future in this country. I mean, you guys come here without having the duties done, they didn't do any duty. I've already told them that I don't get into technical matters; there are technicians who know how to do it. I will not discuss here whether integrated transport is good or bad, whether sharing is good or bad; I will not fall into your trap. You, as a Government, had to have done some duties that you haven't done; we're still in time, but they change, somehow! Those responsible for leading us to disaster can't come here to teach us lessons that we've already warned. And of course we've heard about the resignations: check out the Diary of Sessions during the budget debate and you'll see how we've already told you that everything you included was caused because the companies told you they were going to give up. In a hurry and running they made the accompanying law with the title of the transport. It wasn't enough, because it was a joke anymore, and now they're making that resolution and, when it comes to a company, we're going to see about the problem that you caused. That's the reality. So you assume it, Counselor. Now, if you come here, you're proud of what you've done and believe that the situation is ideal, well, you'll be portrayed in front of citizenship and even before your voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u121	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. I, as always, will not insult, but hear it from others who are in the permanent insult is nice. He won't listen to insults, but arguments. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, first, I wanted to thank you for the clarifications, because I already felt that they would not be in this plan and that they would not make any approach, because they are not interested in this plan, the only thing that interests them -- as I said earlier -- is to wear down the Government and try to scratch some votes instead of being with the people of the countryside, instead of being with the Greeks and the Greeks, which they want is an opposition that helps this government to fight the pressure, come from whom they come. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They still don't prioritize citizens today. Today they also had a chance to change. They asked before the advisor had changed. You also change your position and please listen to the Galicians and the Greeks, help and stop listening only to companies in the sector. It hurts, it hurts, it hurts... let me read to you a few sentences from the many that I was a year ago, from June 2016, when we were with the law of urgent measures: "I'm an agency to guarantee the business of friends." "They want to deliver much of the business to friendly companies." This is the speech I've been listening to here for the 7-8 months. Who do we benefit, those who are on strike, without fulfilling minimum services? Do we benefit from those companies that are facing that government? No, no, those companies already know that we're in general interest. Who's on your side? The same ones that lied a year ago when they accused us of being on the company side. We're going again with the general interest. [[Applause]] You can follow, if you want, by reading the business argument. In any case, as the advisor said, today the word they took is "prepotence," today everyone repeated it. It's today's argument: prepotence. Prepotence is what the poor counselor has to endure when confronted with people who do not respect the law, who do not respect the minimum services, and to those who cannot be spoken to, despite their intention. [[Murmurs.]] He says he lacks information, he doesn't know her and so on. It's posted on the web! Mr. Sánchez's daughter can look for her and... because, since she didn't bring her... but you can do it and ask for information, and she can collaborate with the government, with the CEO, and she has all the information anyone needs. They say they don't have a chance to get close. But why do they expose themselves to the public, then the documents? So we can guarantee that. He's talking about work. It's just so much that they say they don't give me time to say...! If you have to congratulate — for a lot of things, but especially — it is because you have guaranteed not only 100% of employment but because this plan increases the chances of employment in rural areas. They went to escorts on 100% of the buses. You gave him the figures: there's a mandatory subrogation, there's 25% more money for the drivers' agreements. What else do you want? Employment is absolutely guaranteed, and it is a plan made, in addition, to ensure that business fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises. He spoke in the tide of legality. Of course —din — you will have —because as today his fellow speaker spoke about the future, because he also likes to talk about the future to En Marea...... I will not say that there can be no favorable judgments or against anything, because for that are the judges. What I'm sure of is that if this government does what it proposes to the people of En Marea and the BNG, to extend and continue, that's already illegal without the need for any judge to say it. So we're going to give him the slightest confidence. They support the Council's proposals once, with technical and legal reports, which is how it is done. Can something come then? Well, obviously, no human decision is free. But what is clear is that what you propose to extend and suspend this plan is illegal from minute one. In any case, I'm going to give you the reason for something. He says it's a technical matter, it's not going to get in the way. God damn it! But, of course, it would do quite well for you to do and act on what you say. [[Murmurs.]] Please let the technicians work on this. Look, I want to finish because I think it deserves it — if I may, Mr President, just a minute, is positive — because I honestly think we have to congratulate the advisor for the work he is doing, because it is a plan that will improve public transport, especially in rural areas, because it is a plan that, in addition, allows us to study for these two years how it is implemented for 2019, when it is definitive, to be able to incorporate things that are better and that guarantee not only transport in rural areas but employment and the guarantee of service and equity — which is the most important — and equality for all the Greeks and the Greeks, regardless of where they live. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Close this meeting, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u124	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my intention today in this appearance was to transfer to Parliament the situation and prospects that we have at the Galician and the Government of Greece for the next launch of the first phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan, to explain how often this plan consists, what are the objectives, to dispel the doubts and suspicions that you may have and to do so with maximum transparency so that they are properly informed about the main lines of action and to explain and offer in detail the changes you may have, fears and mistrusts. And that's why I considered it necessary, urgent and important to come, come and explain the roadmap we have at the Galician Union for the development of the objectives of this plan and explain its advantages. For about two hours — which I think we've been here — the truth is that few things I've heard more than to fail and, of course, to do illegalities; and we're not going to do illegalities or perform inviolable acts. The proposals that you defend mean you're out of a bus service, that the workers on those bus lines, who have given up, who are out of work, and we can't afford it. Our duty is to keep an eye on services, to keep an eye on jobs and to ensure public transport. The truth is, I'm concerned that you don't realize that the implementation of this plan in August is unattainable, urgent and inevitable to shield the public service, to shield the jobs. And to move a false belief, a false idea, that there's a lot of alternatives since then that doesn't help anyone, because it's not so, and therefore they're transferring a false idea and a false belief. They propose a trip anywhere, a trip that involves leaving the Greeks without transportation and a trip where, if there is no transport, of course, there is no job. If this is what they want, we don't want it since the German Government. Our obligation, of course, is the general interest, and that's why we're here. Our duty is to bid for new public service contracts. It is the only option — I insist — that is viable and legal. We cannot, of course, remove or lay our fingers on public service concessions; we have to bid and hire again. And public transport in rural areas — something we can all agree on — is paramount and essential for improving rural mobility, for moving, for our neighbours to go to health care, for moving to jobs, for going to shopping, to the pharmacy... of course, we won't be able to deprive the Greeks of public transport, and also guarantee employment. I'm surprised they criticize me for being, in the German Government, ambitious; that really surprises me, because in addition to shielding services, we want to give rural life and improve rural service. So what I ask them is that they don't put candles on their progress; it's the only thing I ask them to do: don't put candles on their progress, because the plan offers solutions and we're facing it bravely. We're facing this bravely, it's a chance to improve. This same week we will bid for the new contracts, with a new model that brings opportunities for all, to favour the displacements, important benefits to our majors and with public transport shared by 10% school routes, so that these rural people can take advantage of these empty squares of school transport. And the children will certainly be the first, and that's why a companion will be on every line. And we can't forget about the job either. We want to give stability and tranquillity to jobs. The plan provides a more orderly and therefore guaranteed employment, and gives employment stability with that subrogation clause, which even obliges companies to maintain those jobs, as if the contract could not be settled. We watch for the future of companies as well. That's why we want and expect them to compete in UTE. We have significantly increased the budget for contracts and have also limited the percentage of contracts to affect companies. What we want is to have transportation in August, to have jobs in August and that transport arrives where it didn't arrive before, taking advantage of the synergies of the school, dialogue and enriching documents, as we have been doing all this time. I think we all add up to offering more and better advantages, to ensure the general interest, to shield the services — more and better services —, to revitalize rural life, to give guarantees and stability to the workers and to continue to dialogue, with the approaches of all, to adapt transport to the real needs. Of course, we have a great challenge, a great challenge ahead, which is to be on the side of the children, on the side of our rural neighbours, on the side of the workers, with that subrogation clause, with those measures of great social and labour silence that we have incorporated and on the side of small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore on the side of responsibility and on the side of general interest. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u125	Thank you, Counselor. Two requests are collected. Comparability of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, on his own request, to report on the reorganization of centres Mr Advocate General F.G. Jacobs delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Fifth Chamber on 13 February 2001. PP. of In Marea, of the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Block Galego, to explain the closure of educational centres, the abolition of teaching posts and the educational offer for the next course
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u126	To make this appearance, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u127	All right. Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the public in this House. Education is undoubtedly an important theme for society as a whole and, as such, since 2009 the attendances of the various members of the Council have been very frequent to explain — whether in full or in commission — what educational policies are being developed. Just in the previous plenary session, held on 20 June, I came up with my own request to expose a balance of educational activity in Galicia. In this intervention I carried out, from a global and autonomous approach, a balance of the course that ended and outlined the main strategic lines of improved education. In this appearance I explained the educational actions that the Council is implementing under its political and organizational responsibility; that is to say, manage the system and advance the quality of education, comply with the relevant basic standards at every moment, developing the rules with responsibility within the competences it has assigned and working day by day for the improvement of quality and educational equity. And in the face of the criticisms made by the opposition in that debate, I have also made a statement that seems to have been forgotten in the last few days, and I will literally repeat what I said: "It may be legitimate to resort to a narrative of criticisms of argumentaries—you will know—that the Council corresponds to the planning, regulation and administration of regulated education throughout its scope—levels, degrees, modalities and specialties. For the next course we will continue to organize the activity of educational centres taking into account pedagogical, demographic, geographic and resource management criteria." Today I'm going to add something else: not making educational and planning decisions in the interests of the educational community as a whole would be irresponsible. I say this because the proposed decision to reorganize educational centres in the towns of Outes, The Bridges, Ribadavia and The Porriño was first adopted in the exercise of competence and responsibility entrusted by law to the Council, taking into account — as I said at that time and today — pedagogical, demographic, geographic and management criteria responsible for resources. Was this supposed to be so bad? What did we do? We comply with the obligation to regulate a reorganisation of students and material and human resources with the aim of rationalizing and improving the education service. How did we do that? Through the adoption of measures provided for in the current legislation and which have an administrative character, as are, first of all, in the case of Outes, merging two ECIPs equal to one; and in the other three cases that bring us here, The Porriño, Ribadavia and the Bridges, reorganizing the educational offer of the ICCs. The ICCs, ladies and gentlemen, are centers that have an educational offer in children, primary and secondary. What is being considered in this reorganization is that in the centers, in the original spaces, ordinary classes are maintained in children and primary classes and that high school students go to schools that are practically next door, practically next door. And so there's a legal change, transforming two ICCs into two CEIPs, and in the case of the Bridges, an integrated juridical person of two ICCs into a CEIP, into the CEIPs of Magdalena. Having said this, it's normal for any change to occur at first a certain moment of discontent or some uncertainty as to what it means to adapt to something other than what it's used to. You can attribute discontent and discomfort to multiple elements that can be questionable, but there's something that's obvious, and this thing that's obvious is the political interpretation interested in which, above all, in some locality, has been done with regard to this reorganisation of students and material and human resources. How did you simplify the opposition to the measure taken? It's all based on a great lie. An alarm has been created saying that four educational centers are closed, when reality is not that. The facilities, the spaces will continue to be educational, except in one case, except in the case of Outes, where the merger of a CEIP, of a college and another, will release a building, which will no longer be used by the Educational Administration and will return to the Town Hall for the uses it determines. I insist that the reorganization of centers is a technical decision, responsible and sensible. And once again from this House, the Council wants to transfer a calm message. With this appearance it is sought to clarify certain uncertainties that in some cases have been fueled with a negative intensity for the good climate of the teaching of Greek and cuns, so that they can only be interpreted from an interested political position. What is the general view of the situation? The first one, ladies and gentlemen, that must be very clear is that we can't speak in any case of closing four schools in the next course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u128	Please, I ask you to respect him because he's talking to the counselor. Then we'll ask for a word turn. I'm sorry, I'm talking to the public. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You'll have your turn later. I ask them to respect me. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u129	All right, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing to be clear is that we can't talk about closing four schools in the next course. As I've already said, except for Outes, where two centres of the same type are merged, in other localities there is a legal transformation in the type of centers that involves the extinction of ICCs to become CEIP. Thus, in the affected centres, childhood and primary classes will continue to be taught, and only secondary students will go to nearby schools, as they are taught by type. The Education Administration, in order to make effective and efficient use of available resources, faces a reorganisation of the student in order to improve the training they receive according to their educational levels. We must not forget that Galicia has geographical and demographic peculiarities that distinguish it from other autonomous communities. In 1997 — and I make a little historical reflection — before the obligation to comply with the new organization of teachings set by LOGSE and the difference between what happened in other autonomous communities, at different points in Galicia, the so-called ICCs, integrated public centres, which were incorporated into the planned network of primary and child education centres, the CEIPs — to schools — and the new secondary schools, the IES. The ICCs were born in Galicia as an exceptional to accommodate at the same primary and ESO student centre and thus avoid long displacements to those students in certain areas of Galicia, mainly rural areas, where the immediate application of LOGSE was not possible in the absence of IES, in the absence of institutes. Today, in 2017, after twenty years, there has been a clear evolution of both the network of centers and the registration reality of the community as a whole. The Education Administration makes an administrative decision for three cases: for the CPIs of the Bridges, of Ribadavia and of the Porriño, with the aim of having children and primary students study in schools, in the CEIP, or, let's say, in the type of centre they belong to, and those of secondary schools. The student always stays in the same municipality for childhood, primary and secondary education. By the way, it didn't happen with reorganizations of other governments. In three cases, The Bridges, Ribadavia and the Porriño, are told with a very close IES, and the student in no case moves from population, as they integrate into centers with enough space for the new educational function. In the case of Outes there is a merger of CEIPs, which means better use of the best educational facilities and the return of a building to the Town Hall, which makes it possible in this case to gain educational services. The organization resulting from the student is similar to that in other municipalities of Galicia. All units, the resulting classes, will respect the maximum allowed student ratios and even in a large part of them the classes will be well below these ratios. In no case are children or primary classes closed, and in secondary schools there will be an adaptation of the number of those in the receiving IES. So we can propose this reorganization? We have designed it to adapt the educational reality of these four localities to what is normally happening in many municipalities in Galicia, where pupils of children and primarys are in schools — they are in the CEIP — and secondary schools; also for students to have access to more and better opportunities when studying their studies, of course, at their corresponding educational level; to make effective and efficient use of available material and human resources; to offer improvements in facilities and programs, in the case of children and primary students; and to offer more educational opportunities, optional, itineraries and programmes, in the case of secondary students. Why do we adopt this reorganization at the end of the course? For a simple and clear reason, because it was decided to avoid any interference in the student learning process during a course in which the decision taken does not apply and because it is also an administrative measure of application in the next course — in 2017-2018 — having enough time since the measure was announced to make all those kinds of necessary adjustments to minimize possible incidences in family living. Many, ladies and gentlemen, are the examples of the years in which a strictly educational decision becomes a political attack without the slightest rigour. They are legitimate, ladies and gentlemen, the political discrepancies, but the responsibility of the Council is to minimize unnecessary alarms to families and especially students. And here we see a clear interest in turning into a political issue, politicizing in a partisan way, an educational decision of an administrative nature. I would also like to stress that the decisions of a government are taken in the competent bodies, in this case, and, after fulfilling the administrative process established in the applicable regulations, by agreement of the Board of Trustees. I imagine, I know and we are aware that other political formations prefer more assemblary models, but a responsible government is due to law and due to established procedures. [[Applause]] For this reason, once the decision has been made, it must be announced. In this case it was decided to do so by explaining the situation in each municipality. It was done through the territorial headsets and the educational inspection. From now on, and after the reorganization began, the lines of dialogue and contacts between the Administration and educational communities were opened to find the best way to implement the measure and that change generated the smallest distortions possible to families. That's what happened in the days after the announcement. I myself, in my position as counsellor, had a meeting with the mayor and the educational community of the Bridges; a place, by the way, where reorganization acquired a different intensity of criticism, no doubt having an effect on elements other than education. And I'm going on a case by case... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u130	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Speak word that is not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u131	I'm going on a case by case. At this point, I want to explain the specific situation of each locality regarding the reorganization of centres. Outs. It's a reorganization, as I said, based on the merger of two equal centres of children and primary. The 67 students from CEIP Navasqués will study in the ECIP in Outes, with around 200 students in this case. We passed from two centers in which there was an educational line in each of the centers to one center in which there's going to be two educational lines. We're moving to a multilingual centre, with facilities that are going to be improved; in fact, in a very short time, a process of reform of about half a million euros is going to be adjudicated. And what we've made possible is that at a better center there are more services and that the ratios are, in any case, well below what the maximum ratios set by law are. We're talking about a number of 14-15 students per class, when the average ratio is 25, with which, in no case, you can talk about massification. It is also clear that in this case, all those transport services and all that is necessary for the students of this CEIP to be able to integrate without any problems in the CEIP of Serra de Outes. The Bridges. No doubt, the case you've had most of the time to speak is the case of the Bridges. In this case, what is proposed is an intervention at the CPI Monte Caxado, in which there were classes until the time of childhood, primary and secondary. As children and primary students will continue to have classes in the same building, they will continue to have the same services, they will continue to have the same organization. And that, yes, there are two changes: the first change is a question of a legal nature from the point of view that it integrates as a legal person the direction in the CEIP next to it, in the CEIP of Magdalena, which is right next to it, in which we will have a unit, a line, in the CEIP A Magdalena, and another line, in this case, in the Mount Cash. And the next change is that the 56 students in Monte Caxado are going to change to the two IES next door, both Moncho Valcarce and Castro da Uz, which are almost 500 meters away. And that's where they're going to be able to study high school exactly in schools that suit their needs. I mean, in the educational space of Mount Cashado as such there will continue to be childhood and primary classes, there will be no change. Yes, there will be a change of 56 students who will be transferred to a school that is right next door. In this case, we believe that being able to concentrate high school students on a smaller number of centres will give students greater educational opportunities. And why? Because it will allow you to have greater possibilities for itineraries. So far in the centers that give high school in the bridges there is not in the 4th of the ESO the double route of applied and academics mainly by dispersion and by not having a minimum number of students needed. In this way, the concentration will make it possible for more education to be offered to students, which we believe will have a positive impact on the training of these students. Ribadavia. Neither does any educational center close in Ribadavia, there is simply an administrative transformation of centers, from ICC to CEIP; and also a change of ICC student to an institute that is right next to it, they're on the same plot. In this case, the integrated public centre, the ICC Tomás de Lemos, becomes a school of childhood and primary education, maintaining the name Tomás de Lemos; and the teachings of ESO move — as I said — to the IES The Ribeiro. In this case, the 306 pupils of children and primarys are in the current CEIP, with more physical space in the facilities, while ESO students pass to IES O Ribeiro, with facilities that have the capacity to afford such integration. Oh, my God. As in the previous case, no centre is closed in the Porriño. What was previously called the ICC will continue to work under the characteristics and designation of CEIP of Ribeira, with the pupils of children and primarys who had so far. The only change, as in the previous case, is for high school students to go to school at the IES Ribeira do Louro, which is practically next door, and in which the units are doubled. So, the 113 pupils of children and primarys are left in the current facilities, which are now called CEIP of Ribeira, while the 55 secondary students of the CPI change to the IES Ribeira do Louro, whose facilities have, as I said, spare capacity. And this is positive because it will also allow for more educational itineraries in the 4th ESO, because so far it only counts on academic itineraries. There's going to be more optativity, there's going to be more itineraries and there's also going to be greater access to innovation and educational improvement programs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the technical explanation set out in Decree 60/2017 of 22 June for the reorganization of teaching centres in certain localities, and this is an explanation which the Council has tried to transfer by different ways to the educational communities directly involved, and of course to the Greek society in general; an explanation which I give today in this House so that, I hope, it is stated once and for all that to organize the activity of these educational centres we have taken into account pedagogical, demographic, geographical and responsible resource management criteria. Why are only these ICCs, since obviously there are more ICCs in Galicia? Well, reorganization was done exclusively in those places where two conditions are met, which are, first, that there is an IES very close to the CPI restructuring object, and, secondly, that this IES has the ability and availability to accommodate secondary students from the ICC itself. In the short and medium term, there are no more centres in Galicia that meet these criteria and may therefore be the subject of a decision similar to that adopted at the moment. There are no, as I said, more cases in Galicia. In general terms, the reorganization of centers in Outes, The Bridges, Ribadavia and the Porriño involves a series of improvements for both the primary and primary students and the ESO students. In fact, boys in children and primarys will have larger facilities in their own centres because of the gap between high school students. They will therefore have more space for teaching activities, and the teacher can focus on educational projects more in line with the student's typology. For their part, ESO students, when they move to schools, are educated with their age group partners and have a better education offer. I just said that in some CPIs there was only one option for the academic itinerary, and yet they applied it as well. In addition, high school students today can opt in better conditions for projects, program contracts and make available to students more free-of-configuration subjects, as one of the requirements for these issues is to have a minimum number of pupils, which in many cases do not have enough of these centres, and it is necessary to have a minimum number of students to be able to start itineraries as well as free-of-configuration subjects. Ladies and gentlemen, the educational inspection services are advising, informing and resolving doubts in the four centres where this school reorganization has just been approved. I insist that a measure which the Education Council applies with criteria of improvement in the quality of education and also in the care of diversity. Thus, the whole educational community has an open and direct channel of communication with the Administration that allows it to formulate, express and raise any kind of question that may arise, whether related to schedules, transport, dining room, innovation programs, booksbanks or others. That is, the dialogue is kept open on issues related to the organization and improvement of the services and quality of education, of course, in order to further improve the services offered by their centres. To reassure you and the example of some of the uncertainties of families, I would like to point out that, in general terms, there is no change in enrolment in schools that change their legal nature — i.e. from ICC to CEIP, as may be the case with Monte Cassado or others — there is no change in enrolment, since children and primary students are left where they were: in the same facilities, with the same programs and with the same teachers. And for high school students who become part of an IES, the registration deadline -- which, by the way, ended yesterday -- is an automatic change, i.e. in the registered centres. And only those who opt for an unregistered centre had to make a number of administrative changes to the registration. We have some provisional data on the example I just said, where of the 56 students from Monte Caxado, about 10-12 chose Castro da Uz and the rest chose Moncho Valcarce. In relation to textbooks, in this case, the textbooks of the recipient centre of students are the result of reorganization. The background books of the ICC that coincide in this case with the books of the receiver center become part of their set. And in case they don't match and therefore lack books, the Council will acquire all the missing manuals to distribute in the center to the student who has the right to the book bank. Well, when this time came and after the technical explanation, I wanted to think about what this is supposed to be, or at least how we interpret it, both for families and from a political point of view. At this point — and speaking to families — we need to be aware that management in an education system is frankly complex and it is not always easy to explain that there are measures to be taken and that respond to the general interest and the improvement of education. Of course, we can understand the nervousness, the fears, the uncertainties that changes brought about by the Administration can generate in families and in all educational communities. We are also aware that there are emotional reasons, that there is affection, that there is attachment to educational institutions, schools, and that we understand it as very positive. But I've already said it in my past appearance, sometimes it takes time to see to believe; for the waters to ultimately return to their ordinary course. Doubts may arise and adjustment situations may arise that will have to be resolved to start the educational activity under a new organization. But what I want to make very clear is that, far from alarmist messages, the Council's decision — as I have already said and repeat — meets the pedagogical, demographic, geographic and resource management criteria. Families need to know that this decision is taken to give their children more educational opportunities; yet, of course, we can understand their discomfort. Political reading, political reflection. Well, said the previous one, in this House it is up to you to make a political reading of what has happened once you get to know the decision taken by the Council. Because of some reactions, someone might think it's the first time an educational administration makes such a decision in Galicia. You could think about it, but it's not like that. On other occasions in Cunta de Galicia has taken measures to transfer pupils from ICC or centres in which they shared space with primary students to schools. He left, without going any further, in 2008. It's not the first time. And when we have the opportunity to expose what was done in the year 2008 with what is done in this reorganization, without a doubt, we may have some surprise. It is also true that different parties and governments from different political parties have made decisions about the closure of units; it has always been done over the past few years and, no doubt, it will also have to be done. Obviously, I'm sure you'll criticize only the closure of units that make this government, not remembering what has been done in other governments. But what's true is that these aren't, at least, the first decisions that were made in everything that had to do with the reorganization and the change of secondary students from schools where they shared space with primary students to high schools, and in some cases at a great distance. And by the way, in other autonomous communities where parties of very different colors rule — basically left parties in different coalitions — if they have made — and very recently — decisions far less shocking — as to say in some way — than the one taking in this case. But the truth is, what happens in the last few days in Galicia are criticisms and political reactions that we interpret as absolutely exaggerated and disproportionate, grounded, as I said, in interests other than teaching. Because, ladies and gentlemen, where is the conflict? I wonder, did it work wrong or the educational system? Or is there an attempt to create a political problem based on an organizational decision? [[A few honourable Members and some honourable Members: Yes.]] I tell you, opposition gentlemen, to reflect, to abandon the opportunism strategies and to seek political revenue in a technical decision designed to give high school students more educational opportunities. [[Some honourable Members and some honourable Members: No.]] And I'm done. We have adopted a reorganization of educational centres based on the exercise of autonomous competence, the application of logic and in the common sense and under clear criteria. We explain the decisions when they are firm decisions. Except for a building in Outes that comes back to the Town Hall, you can't talk about closures, because there's no them; there's just high school students going to a high school. [[Laughter]] We maintain the units — classes — with the necessary adaptations to the needs of the student. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we make it possible -- I suppose it won't make you laugh -- a better education offer, more opportunities, more itineraries and higher training quality. Politically this whole story is built on a great non-truth, on a great lie: that in the Porriño, in the Bridges and in Ribadavia are closed centers. No centre is closed at all. There are legal changes in these centers and there will be continued primary and child education. [[Murmurs.]] That's right, there's legal changes, and what we're going to have is a change in the location of high school students, who become part of the schools that are practically next door. Ladies and gentlemen, we regret the concern of the families; we understand their initial concern. Technical services and the Educational Inspection will continue — as they have done so far — to resolve doubts as to how students from one building to another, practically next; in some cases in the same plot. And at the political level — and I am finished, ladies and gentlemen — it should be clear enough that education should be left out of excesses and political strategies and disproportionate and disproportionate use, especially of technical and educational decisions that adopt a government, chosen, indeed, on three occasions in a democratic manner by most Greeks and Greeks. [[Protests from the guest gallery.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u132	No, no, no. Not like that. [[Applause]] Thank you, Counselor. I beg the public again, please don't do gestures... No, not even the one you're doing. [[One person makes gestures from the guest gallery.]] The rostrum has a rule. I ask you, please, to behave so that you can finish this show. I'm asking for it, please. So they also collaborate, that you are our guests. Thank you. Yes, yes, you are invited by the Presidency; processed by the groups, but you are invited by the Presidency. [[Murmurs.]] That's right. You have the floor now, for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u133	Good day to all again. And welcome to the Parliament of Galicia the people who have accompanied us since the guest gallery. Go paper, Mr. Rodríguez! Get some paper! I think it cost you to understand yourself. But a lot, eh! [[Applause]] Very! Between the legal person, the legal change, the merger, you've been digitating yourself for moments in your intervention. I, who are from the generation of Digimon, Pokémon, and Millennium too... do you know what the biggest problem has been in these last few weeks, Counsellor — which then in my intervention will also be mentioned and is one of the reasons why you are here today? For last June 20 -- you did, in addition, refer to your intervention, to the beginning -- that you were here coming, we don't know why you forgot to comment on us all here, at the headquarters of the legislative power of this country, all this. It must seem unimportant, unimportant, that you could skip this information, and two days later take a phone call to the educational centers -- we don't know very well if directly to the families -- and report that it closed, closed -- Emilio Navasqués closes, I know it costs you to recognize it because it's the source of the problems, in addition to that they close secondary in the other schools. And just so I don't forget — because if I don't bring him into my intervention — it's not affectivity, counsellor. In the case of Emilio Navasqués, for example, they go from a full-day center to a full-day game. These are problems of reconciling professional life, family life and working life. That's neither affectivity nor a table, nor a chair, nor part of the concrete. You have raised — but it's been a couple of weeks, raising the neo-language to the highest level. I think we've lived this language treatment over the last few years. The cuts were not cuts, they were adjustments because, we lived and we lived -- we understood, because they still follow; we're talking about some of them -- above our possibilities. Youth emigration was neither youth emigration, nor external mobility. Labour reforms were not a loss of rights, they were to make the labour market more flexible. And now the closures of centers are reorganizations, mergers and transformations. That next year no longer exists is an invention of the ANPA, trade union organizations and political organizations that make up the opposition in this parliamentary arc. I made a recommendation from a book the other day in Commission 4a. I bring that literary recommendation back to the plenary today, very useful, I think, at this time: The language at the Third Reich by Victor Klemperer, where he said, "Words can act as minimum doses of arsenic; a swallow without noticing. They don't seem to cause any effect, and after a while the toxic effect will occur." And in this case the effect is that the next month of September, if the People's Party, if the Galician Union, does not refuse, does not amend itself, does not ultimately listen to families, the whole educational community — I no longer ask you to listen to us — Emilio Navasqués will not open the door again. You call it whatever you want, you make up a new word, whatever you want, you won't open the door again. So hard, so clear and so real. Now you come here and twist the words -- we've just seen a high-level example -- everything you want and try to convince us of a reality that doesn't exist. Let's see who believes it! And it's going to be hard for us to believe, after what they've done, that it's been acting premeditating and alleviation, starting -- we could call it that way; you said, "we make this reading," since the BNG we've been blowing up -- the second offensive in the context of their educational conversion. Today, we're still much clearer than this was a planned operation, and it's a decision that was made a long time ago, even though families, educational centres and teaching staff were informed on the eve of it. On the eve, on the eve! They first closed the educational centres, which could be justified by the loss of enrolment, by the shortage of students, because they are few, they are isolated, by the crisis..., which were fundamentally — I remember you — unitary schools, and now you go through centres that have enough students, who have come to develop their activity with total normality and successful recognition, even with student awards, which also had programs of recognition of value for people with specific needs... and now the excuse is to optimize resources: reorganization, reformulation... More neolingua to mask a new offensive that puts upon the table clearly which is the People's Party's priority with regard to public education in this country. It's just that we have to contextualize, because things... I don't get an idea one day in the morning and I get out of bed and say, "Well, I'm going to close a center and turn three. No, we have to contextualize within the framework of other decisions that you have made, and I will no longer extend to the past laws, no, but to what we have been doing in this legislation: ten months since October. Because today you should explain to the families of Emilio Navasqués from Monte Caxado, I don't know if there are people from Ribeiro and people from Porriño too, who, while they close the center, say to reformulate, optimize, merge—digivolate, like the Pokémon—you committed in April 1,550 million public euros—which gave them free cutoffs in the April order; 1,550 million public euros by 2023, six years—to private-concerted centres, including those who discriminate the student on the grounds of sex. There are no limits, there are no adjustments, there is no optimization of resources; there is nothing, there is no reorganization. Now you tell the families that they must efficiently manage public resources and close their school for the sake of their children, but that you are completely committed and determined to continue to satisfy the desires of private companies that manage educational concerts; I insist, including those that secret the student by sex. There's no cuts there, there's money in there by 2023, which we still don't know what budgets we're going to have, but that commitment is already signed, published in the DOG. And there seems to be no going back. We proposed it and voted against it. They acted premeditatedly, cheerfully and in an absolutely despotic way. You said it again here today saying that you didn't warn until the eve of the course to avoid causing stress to the children. "Don't cause child stress!"It was the parrot that happened to him that day. Everything for the children, but, look!, without counting on them. We're not going to ask the families what they think, we're not going to ask the teachers who look like them, nor the trade union organizations; we don't even have the chance to comment on it here, like anyone who doesn't do the thing, within this Chamber on June 20th. But it is not the student who worries them, Counsellor, nor are you here giving explanations for the benefit of the student, but to see what is the way to save his ass or his own furniture — as he would prefer — the day before he would see if they did not mobilize. Well, I've got some bad news for you, Mr. Rodríguez. And that's why today there was a column of people in the morning walking from The Bridges to Coruña in the defense of Mount Cashato. And Emilio Navasqués — so we know through his ANPA — will not stop either, and he has already gathered support with a recent action even of local trade. Nor will it stop the center of the Porriño, nor the families of the Porriño, nor the families of Ribadavia. You're here today not because it's the usual and usual thing for the councilman to come to this House to explain. When the will comes, what we see is that you forget selectively to say that you will reorganize — using your neo-language — the public education of this country. You are here today because you brought him the dignity of these families; dragged, yes. And this is an example that mobilization gives fruit, that mobilization — as we have before the Council of Education — is able to put between the sword and the wall the advisor himself and make him come to this plenary to have to give the explanations he didn't want before publishing in the Official Journal of Galicia the closure, the merger, the transformation, the reorganization, the digestion of the ICCs in our country. And your pride — I have to tell you, Mr. Rodríguez — will not help you clean up the weather. I'd recommend you change the strategy a little bit. Nor do the cheap excuses that we don't understand how good it will be for children to do all this. If it was so good for the children, I don't know why she waited till the evening to communicate it to the families. To see that saint descends today from the Santoral, I wondered this morning. After the Holy Thomas the other day, I don't know, the Blessed One, they said earlier in the morning, which was the day. See if St. Benedict helps you in something. He's been withholding information from this Parliament in his last appearance. He didn't remind you that maybe it was right to say that they would close teaching centers and cut in others when he came here at the last plenary. He's been withholding information from families, ANPAs, trade union organizations, professors. If you believe the version of yours, you've hidden information from your party's municipal spokesmen, local governments, territorial bosses, such as Ourense, who had met with the teaching board that same day in the morning, and you haven't told them anything either. Or do you think we think they made the decision at the last minute? And it still seems to you that we exaggerate when we ask for your resignation! If I had a little shame -- I'm done -- you'd leave, you wouldn't even have to ask for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. You can't applaud, please. No, you can't applaud from the rostrum. [[Applause from the guest gallery.]] No, no, you can breathe, but there are some rules. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the guest gallery.]] And I think I'm transmitting to you that I'm delighted that you're here but, please, I ask you to cooperate as well. I think that's clear. We're not asking for anything else either. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u135	Good afternoon. Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Representatives of the educational communities of the Bridges, Outes, Ribadavia and Porriño, thanks for their attendance at this session. Counsellor, you have made an intervention as extensive as empty. Regardless of what Mrs. Rodil has just said about technical hardware, out of the reach in general that she doesn't understand that way of talking, she didn't say anything. He didn't say anything, he gave no explanation, except systematically charging against the unnecessary political and social mobilization of parents and the educational community against a decision of the Education Council. [[Applause]] Look, the neighbors and neighbors of the Bridge can be considered lucky because you received them, or it was there. Do the same with the rest of the municipalities! Because, what's going on, are they less? Are they less qualitative? Are they less quantitatively? Are they less politically? Because they will be equally important, they will all be parents and mothers, teachers and teachers, teachers and teachers of schools, they will deserve the same treatment from the highest responsible of the Education Council in this autonomous community. You have to apologize to me particularly, I don't know if Mrs. Rodil will do so in her second intervention, and Mrs. Chao — which I suppose will be the spokesman who will come behind me — but you must excuse my clumsiness because, it's true, well thought out, you did say in the last plenary that this reorganization would be done, but we don't understand it. No one understood. I didn't hear about the Bridges, I didn't hear about Outes, I didn't hear about Ribadavia, I didn't hear about the Baby, but it seems I implicitly said it. And so when you say something implicitly, you assume that what you're hearing has enough intelligence. I'm really sorry, I'm making an act of contrition. I'll flinch when I'm done, more than nothing to bleed the chair when I sit back. But I'll try to be more careful next time. You say you remodeled it with geographic, demographic, pedagogical and responsible management criteria. He said it five times, it's the mantra of the day: geographic, demographic, pedagogical and responsible management criteria. Look, you said, Man, there was a certain discontent, a certain uncertainty... what's true is that there was an uncommunal demonstration in front of the Education Council. What's true is that there's been parental mobilization. Don't minimize it with that right, right, right... like saying, well, something happened, something discontented there was, but, well, it's things of time, people wanted to party and instead of going to a romary they decided to focus on the Education Council, which, well, has a reasonably large explanation but has few oaks. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] In any case, the sad situation, Counsellor, is that there is a full — that is, the full past — you came here to account for the achievements of the Education Council. And then I want to remind you that the three opposition groups congratulated you because you came here to make an accounting, start a path that we considered lucky. But actually, and even though I asked you as a spokesman for the Socialist Group's education on this issue explicitly — if you were going to do some kind of remodeling — you didn't answer. And they had, of course, already made the decision to make this change to the center network. It was therefore an appearance to enhance your task — which is good — but in which Parliament has been hidden the true intention of the Education Council. And now you intend to make yourself believe, as Mrs. Rodil has already told you, that she will appear on her own. But you know it's not like that. No one believes in the autonomous community that you are here on your own. You are here because you have no choice whatsoever, because your decisions — since you are the political leader, because you are the education adviser — have caused the immediate response not only of the educational communities but also of the unanimous and simultaneous groups of the opposition in this Parliament. And you also have, in a situation that we're going to pre-qualified, the educational community, because no one's ever believed in what you tell them, either in the territorial headsets or in the Education Council, because they can tell you one thing and the opposite happens that same day in the afternoon. You're not reliable; you're unreliable, you're not transparent, as it should be in a responsible government. And it's not because he has an absolute disdain for the educational community, he despises parents and mothers, who are only taken into account when it comes to setting up some kind of prize delivery or winnings to go applauding there. But they are not taken into account when being informed as active agents of the educational process, as an active part of the educational community; for that they are not taken into account. They have unprecedented contempt for educational communities, management teams, teacher teams and high school teachers. Do you know that this same course helped final destinations in centers and that they are now going to be transferred to others? Do you know that there is a case of a teacher in this autonomous community who has competed with one of these 157 points — that you have no idea how many years it costs — and what will now be in the situation of displacement? Does it seem to you that this is a serious and responsible management of the education system? Couldn't they block the squares so no one could see himself in that situation? And it's not the only case, there are several, if not, to advise you on the last transfer contest. And they have an absolute contempt for the local administration. Of course, no council — I don't know if the one in Outes, with respect to our partner — was informed of this situation, but I doubt if the other municipalities were told before the last day of class. They hid public information because on June 20 at the Council of the Council of Galicia — this is public information to the media — there is no mention of the Reorganisation Decree of these centres, as mentioned later, in the text of the decree itself, following the deliberations of the Council of the Union of this day. You're unreliable. I don't know if lying by default is as serious as actively lying, but you deliberately hid that information. Look, you're talking here that, as Mrs Rodil has already said, they didn't advertise this fact so as not to disturb all children and families. Look, it's you, really, real mothers and parents for this country; always pending from us, anticipating our needs and making more yeasts, that's yes, the bitter drinks that confront us in life: you'll know in time, there's no need to suffer in advance... Man, please, a little bit of seriousness, a little respect for this whole group of people affected by this decision! And besides, it's not true that the continuity of the same number of units is guaranteed. In Ribadavia it doesn't happen, and you know it. In Ribadavia they go from two line 2 centers to one center that may have line 3 -- in the best of cases at first -- but in the rest of the courses you're going to have line 3. So there's a loss of units and there's a loss of teaching posts, and that's what happens in Ribadavia. Write down the figures you've been given. We wanted to know if there existed in that council so diligently directed a serious planning. You said here now that the situation in these three municipalities was no longer in any town hall. And I ask you: can you guarantee this Parliament, you can guarantee these educational communities that are listening to us that there will be no such change anymore, not because there is a institute, in addition to a ICC in the same location, but because you think a ICC should not work because it doesn't have enough students anymore? You can't guarantee that. You came here to say that these measures ensure that more optimistivity can be given. Don't you realize that that inverse reasoning means that you don't get enough optativity in a lot of centers in this autonomous community, man? Didn't you think so? In fact, analyze the reality of the educational community a little bit and think before you say certain things. Because the truth is that it may be necessary to make a change in the network of centers, it is possible, but it is possible that this change is made much better if all those involved in the educational community are taken into account, if you take into account that it is not the same as a CPI in Cervantes as an institute in the middle of the city of Coruña or Lugo, which will require a singularity rather than the teacher you must have, because you will never have as many students as the other center. Dialoguen, which has the chance -- I know it's very remote -- that you're wrong in some case. It is known that most of the mistakes — the historical, the present and the future — are on this side of Parliament, which we already know; most of them. Perhaps you're in something or sometimes wrong and therefore have a dialogue with the entire educational community — with parents and mothers, local administration, which is highly involved especially in primary and primary schools of education and ICP schools — and they need that participation with the teachers' representatives collectives. As I'm out of time, I'm only going to give you an opportunity to correct a statement you just made about other governments right now. In 2008 the transfer of lessons of students from 1st and 2nd ESO... took place.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u137	...from childhood and primary schools — not from ICC — to institutes, because it was a security that was given, and you know perfectly well why it was given. Now, I tell you one thing, you correct the statement you made before, because there was no massive transfer like this that you just made. And I'll give you the chance to fix it because, if not, in the next intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u139	...I'm going to make a bet on certain posts that we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u141	...we're running right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u142	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u144	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I have to begin my intervention by thanking today's nourished presence in the gallery — not of guests but of the sovereign people of Galicia — of all the ANPAs, who have been defending what is all for weeks, defending the dignity and the need for quality public education for all. Thank you very much for your tireless work, thank you very much for being here today. We know it's being tough, but when you're on the side of the truth, when you're on the side of reason, fighting is easier. [[Applause]] Mr. Román, you, failing to respect people, is unique. He's used to missing out on the opposition groups; that's what he loves. But you came here today to miss these people, treat them as real minors, as if they were perfectly manipulated by opposition groups, and you know it's not. If I had sat with them, I'd know that they have criteria, that these people are perfectly aware of what they're trying to do in the people they live in. And that's why they're here, so they manifested themselves in front of the council, and that's why they manifested themselves in front of their council. And they're waiting for respect for their band, respect and hear, that they dedicate a little of their time. Sit down with them and you'll see that, by manipulation, none; your own criterion. It can be seen that you think people don't like it at all. These are the people who are waiting for some concrete answer today; those who have denied it until now expect you to take advantage of this appearance for something more than to keep throwing balloons out. It's about you answering something. We have to talk in ways because, as I say, you're starting to miss people, to miss citizenship, as you've missed the entire educational community by announcing these closures the day before you finished school. Imagine a case: an education adviser who comes to this Parliament two days earlier to come, at his own request, to take stock of the academic course and announce the changes to what he is coming. In that appearance — as you said here — you forgot to mention that you were going to close centers, units, classes and that you were going to eliminate specialists. I had nothing to say about that. Two days later, people from that board are calling the principals of the teaching centres to inform them that next year they won't open the doors. I don't care the pretty word that happens to her, the case is that they won't open the doors, call her whatever she wants. Imagine hundreds of boys and girls preparing their end-of-the-course parties. Imagine parents, mothers, students, teachers, who have to change these parties to prepare urgent mobilizations for a news that they don't understand, from which they understand absolutely nothing, to defend what is theirs, their teaching center; educational communities that go out into the streets to say no to their cuts, to say no, that they ask, they don't know, they don't understand anything; they don't understand the contempt of a government that decides to close their school without communicating to them anything before, without understanding what reason it can justify that the center where they just enrolled their daughters and children will not open the doors in the next course. Imagine those very angry, indignant people, wanting to know, not manipulated by opposition groups, with their own discretion, asking legitimate questions, defending legitimately their interests, wanting to know, asking questions to a counselor who speaks, who doesn't know, who doesn't answer, who doesn't answer or listen to anything at all. Imagine the frustration and defence of those people when two weeks later they have in their hands the decree that certify a unilateral decision, that certify the closing of schools; the anger, the disbelief that anyone can feel when reading a decree in which they are not talking about closure, but extinction and in which pedagogical reasons are raised to justify the indefensible: that the People's Party has a genuine crusade against public education in this country and that, despite the so-called recovery, you continue to cut money in public education at the expense of giving it to the concerted party. That's the one that never bouts; that one, of course not, has already been told before by the people who preceded me in the word. Even today we had to see how they approved 2.2 million euros more for concerted education — 2.2 million more! — because I guess 260,170,000 euros were few to fund private schools. He couldn't reach them and he had to keep on injecting. But for the rest, for the centers where the children and the daughters of the workers and workers in this country are studying, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less, less public education since they arrived. If you're surprised at these numbers, you've certainly not studied the lesson well, because these are your numbers, your numbers since you came to this government. Since the People's Party came to this government, Galicia's public education has done nothing but lose. So in recent years we have accumulated nothing more and nothing less than 195 million euros of cuts. So far I haven't asked him for any imaginary effort, all this is going to work out perfectly. If it doesn't sound to you, of course, it's that you have absolutely nothing to worry about the reality of public education, because, unfortunately, this is real. The counselor of what we're talking about is Román Rodríguez, you are; the insensitive politics of deaf ears, who ignores the feelings of people, who don't see, doesn't feel or hear anything at all. You don't hear or dialogue with anyone. Of course, they ignore the opposition and despise Parliament and its democratic functioning by coming here to make an appearance and forgetting to talk about the closure of educational centres. Surprise, none, because what's going to wait for the opposition when you ignored the Green Sea, ignored and missed the dozens of demonstrations in the streets defending public education, up to the end of your appearance before you had the sneak of going up here saying that if the revalids had no academic effects out for you? What a shame, Mr. Román! What a shame! [[Applause]] They ignore families, ignore unions, ignore teachers, ignore girls and children who don't want them to close schools, and say they do it for their own good. Then talk to them; they want us less and talk to them a little more, listen to us a little more and maybe they'll get better. They even ignore their conciliators and conciliators, for example, on the Bridges, ashamed to be part of the People's Party. He doesn't say En Marea, his concierge told him. Now imagine that you were one of those parents, that you were one of the teachers or teachers who had approved the transfer to one of the centers that will close. It's more complicated for him, because since his comfortable office it's much more complicated to imagine the uncertainty in which certain people live. But what if I could do is stop imagining, stop asking absurd rhetorical questions like the one you did here saying, what's the problem? If you want to know what the problem is, when you finish your appearance up there and dedicate five minutes to these people, you might as well explain clearly what your problem is. I assure you that they would explain it much better than I can do; that I assure you they have very, very much to ask him, so they have asked him for an audience that you didn't give them, though he goes up here saying otherwise. I could also rectify and also do something much more important: resign. Dimitar, yes, because these locks are a mistake. Closing schools is a mistake, assuming that where we had 20 students in a classroom before, we'll now have 30, we'll assume that the teacher won't give enough, suppose there's less personalized attention, and that's -- you know -- what it's about is in prejudices to those who need the most, for example, the 52 students and students with special educational needs that were enrolled in Mount Cassado and that now we don't know exactly where they're going to end. Closing schools means lower quality for public education, ultimately less rights, because that's really what this is about. The People's Party has long decided to dismantle public education; it's not talking, it's contradictory data. Since you reached the Government, public education has accumulated 195 million euros of cuts. 195 million euros less have clear implications. It's not that we lose money and we don't know where it's going, no, you know. It's known, as I told you before, that we now have 1,200 teachers less. You have the record to have closed in eight years 116 schools and 562 lessons deleted. So you're right, it's not novelty, it's the way to proceed from the People's Party Government: 562 less classes and 116 less schools. With this you are doing, on the basis of short-term economic criteria, to compromise the whole future, the future of entire regions. And now they're talking about pedagogical criteria, a real joke, one more that they're trying to conceal the intent of this year's closures. I can't save now; it doesn't look nice now and they prefer to talk about pedagogical criteria. It has to do with the neo-language of the People's Party, which surprises us more every day! Where there are closures you're talking about extinctions, where there are cuts you're talking about optimizing resources and where there are clear political and economic criteria you're here talking about pedagogical criteria, as well as a slogan, because, of course, you haven't explained to us what faculty you're taught that it's best for teaching to have classes with 30 students instead of 20, because, of course, we haven't studied in the same faculty, that I can assure you. And you know what? His lies don't work either. Look up there and you'll see how you can prove it, no one believes it anymore, absolutely no one. Mr. Román, do you really think you're serious that you haven't reported before so as not to generate an alarm? One of two, if you knew, you've hidden relevant information for families, for teachers, for unions and for students, avoiding accountability in the Galician Parliament, as your duty is. That is to dominate political and partisan strategy instead of transparency and good government, which is what I should do. And if I didn't know, it was an unacceptable improvisation, one more. But that's enough. How can we explain if not that in the same DOG where they announced that they were closing the centre of Monte Caxado — in the same — announcing the bid for the energy efficiency improvement contract in that same centre? Please explain why they decided to close those centers. Don't call me pedagogic criteria. Specify what these criteria are, explain them to these families. Why in the Outs Sierra? Why the Bridges? Why in Ribadavia? Why not Porriño? Why these centers and not others? Do you really want us to believe that there were only two centres in Galicia that met their supposed requirements of those we knew absolutely nothing and of those who didn't want to comment at all? Galician citizenship doesn't deserve an authoritarian adviser who applies the policies of the consummated facts, nor a counselor who only does it is to throw balloons out and insult opposition and citizenship, unable to answer when they ask specific questions. They don't deserve a counselor who ignores and continues to ignore their demands. From Marea we think dialogue must precede politics, not vice versa, because people — yes, Mr. Román — are not younger than they have to tell them where they're going. That's why we asked him to resign; if he had a minimum of decency, today the only thing he would have done going up here was to apologize and then announce that he was going. You were the only one who could agree with the entire educational community against you, the students, the families, the professors, the unions... nobody trusts you, because you have no credibility, because every time you go up this rostrum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u147	...the only thing he's doing is lying, hiding information relevant to this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u149	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, too, to all the people who are accompanying us in the rostrum. The truth is, listening to the intervention of opposition groups, you have to ask yourself a question, too, and that's why a counselor's appearance is required when the last thing you want to hear is to listen to it? I mean, it really didn't matter at all what the Education Counsellor said today here because you already brought a premeditated stance, they brought a default posture and, ultimately, they gave them absolutely equal explanations that they theoretically asked for in that request for appearance. [[Applause]] The fact is that often the vehemence in the arguments at the end is a reality: that you have just criticized the counselor here, criticized the People's Group, failed to respect citizenship, failed to respect society in these places, and failed to respect Parliament. Look, citizenship, Greek citizenship, is represented — and well represented — in this House by all of us sitting here, and therefore all of us sitting here, including the Counsellor and any of the Members of both the People's Group and the Members of the various opposition groups, deserve exactly the same. So, I think that the first thing that needs to be done is, once you go up to this rostrum, to have that respect for all because if you don't also have the permanent argument that from the Popular Group and from the Council if you want little less than to carry public education, less than to carry the reality of the whole rural, little less than practically destroy Galicia -- because listening to you seems to you that this is what the Government and the People's Group wanted to do -- that argument that you were now using Mrs Chao, saying that people don't need to manipulate it, you don't need to tell you what you have to do because you have criteria, because to that argument I tell you that if you really believe this group and this government want to destroy, as you say, public education and Galicia, would be mostly supported in the polls after choice? Well, that probably wouldn't be the case. Why is that? Well, because the population has a criterion, it decides, it makes decisions when they are called to the elections and then, once a government is elected, the government has a mission. And what's that mission? Rule. The government has a duty to rule. And a responsible government has a number of obligations, it has to exercise its powers. In the case of educational competence, we can refer to Article 31 of the Autonomy Statute, which clearly indicates who has the competence of educational organization in the country; but it also has to take account of its decisions, of course. And for that, if you are appearing today, the Counsellor will appear before the House, therefore, before the sovereignty, where the sovereignty of the Greek people resides, to explain a few decisions, the request of the councillor himself and the request of the opposition groups, even though, as I said at the outset, the opposition groups do not care at least what the Counselor is coming to say here today. But it's just that, in addition, an autonomous Government mission is also to manage defense and safeguard of general interests, and for that it is ruling in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u150	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u151	These obligations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u152	Sorry, quiet. Help that gentleman leave the hemicycle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u153	Well, as I said, these obligations move where there's a government, and I'm going to set an example that I think is perfectly understandable to everyone, because, for example, we've also talked about lack of respect for local governments. Now, the local governments, as you all know, also have bodies in which they make decisions: they have the plenary, where the whole will of the people is represented, they have the Government Board, they have the mayor himself, who has a number of competences, and who makes decisions in many cases without consulting society at all, and not for that reason those decisions lack legitimacy. With this what I mean? I mean, sometimes we have to think that when a government manages the reality of citizens, it obviously doesn't do it to bother them. I think that all of us have perfectly clear. Why? Because if a government were really to bother citizens, in short, citizens would have to review their criteria at the time of a government's election and we would have to question that criterion. But, therefore, when we think that governments work... and I have said many times when I go up to this rostrum that I presume to all members of the opposition groups the same interest in why things go well in Galicia than in Members of the People's Group; and I would also ask you to make this little effort to think that to the German Government itself, also for the support and support you have of the Greek citizenship, it interests you that things go well. [[Applause]] But we are going to talk in particular about the question of the reorganization of centres because you have repeatedly insisted on the subject of closure. They don't seem to like that the word "peche" is not used, but then also in their own interventions they recognize that yes, that there is a building that closes — the counselor said — which is the building in Outes, and in this case the rest of their educational centers does not close their door, and you know it perfectly well, they also said it in their interventions. So sometimes it's intended to create a sort of confusion ceremony using and twisting language as well. Yes, Mrs. Rodil, I understand you're laughing, because the truth is, you're an expert in the use of neo-language as well. In fact, they just gave us a kind of master in Pokémon, Digimon and so on. I'm a little older. I'm a little older than Son Goku. Then, at the time of Son Goku, there were also different developments: from warrior to superhero... Look, finally, honestly, because the truth is that I believe it is necessary from time to time to give a little calm, quiet and perspective to the debates. They have to think. I think the advisor made it very clear in his speech that when these decisions are made, if you want and seek an improvement in the quality of education, an improvement in the reality of children and children in each of these localities. In short, what you're trying to do is also to give a higher quality education to all the children in these localities; that is to say, to improve the situation of the entire educational community. And to think the opposite is to be deeply deceived. Of course, everyone can be wrong — you know, those of the opposition, they're also wrong, I assure you -- probably many times; everyone can be wrong -- but what you can't say is that decisions are made against the general interests of governments, because of course, that's a wrong appreciation. It's another example that you're wrong. Look, there are four different cases, four different realities, and one single purpose. The only purpose, as I told you earlier, is to reorganize educational centers in these localities for more efficient resource management and to improve the quality of education and the way of teaching in these localities. I want to talk about a series of issues because you constantly repeat the mantra of "backgrounds for private-concerted education." Look, Mrs Chao was talking about precisely 2.2 million euros that were approved for private-concerted education. And I'm asking Mrs. Chao if she's against the private and concerted facultyman recovering the 1% he had lost in his salary. I ask him if he's against it; maybe he's against it. On other occasions he comes here to defend the interests of the workers. In this case it seems that this particular interest doesn't matter too much. But he even spoke in a very poetic talk of that image of students preparing a final course festival, while he was saying that all funding from private-concerted education had to be withdrawn. So, I'd also be saying that I would leave tens of thousands of pupils and students in Galicia without an end-of-course festival and directly without studies. That would be a little bit of your model, wouldn't it? We've discussed it in other cases... we've discussed it on other occasions in this gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do I mean by this? With this I mean that you can't do it is try, through decisions with technical support, with administrative and concrete support, to put the picture that the Greek education system doesn't work the way it should work. We talked about it at the previous appearance, at the end-of-course checkup. We spoke clearly that the Greek system, the Greek education system, was putting very good results both in inclusiveness and equity as well as in many other indicators, and in that sense we also had to recognize the work of the Council. But no, you're what you're trying to do is confuse the field, use situations, specific questions, to try to move the image that everything is wrong, that everything is done to put your finger into people's eyes, that everything is done with the intention to disturb, to bother and to burst, so to speak, the system itself. I told you once, too. You are constantly searching for enemies, permanently seeking to focus anger on some political group — in this case, unfortunately, the People's Group — to somehow try to give them legitimacy to their speeches. What they should do, rather than constantly looking for or lighting up that anger to give legitimacy to their speech, would for a moment stop to think if with that attitude they would contribute to changing something or benefiting something from Greek society. Of course, this group is very clear that to change something and to benefit the Greek society, what we have to do is work. Lighting up anger, protesting and trying to warm up so that somehow legitimate speech is what you know how to do. We unfortunately did not use those techniques; we unfortunately supported the work, tried to explain and argue the decisions, and so did the counsellor here today in this gallery. And, of course, what we have very clearly is that we will always — and I repeat, always — continue to work for the defense of quality public education and for the defence of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. You devote yourself to what you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u154	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Without it being a precedent, I agree with Mrs. Rodil's statement. You talk about the toxic effect of words, and they certainly have, the toxic effect. [[Laughter]] You quoted here several times the word "peche". It's less bad — that he then said it through the media on many occasions — that he recognized today that only one closes, and it's true, and we say it, by fusion; he never refused. But don't tell me that the other three centers we're talking about are closed, because it's a radical lie. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] And today Mrs. Chao is still having the toxic effect of words. "They won't open the doors," he said literally, "they won't open the doors." We'll go and see. We'll go in September and see if the old ICCs, who change their legal form and lose high school students, open or not open the doors in the Porriño, in Ribadavia and in the Bridges. We'll see, and then we'll see if from there we can build all the story that you want from credibility, from lies, from lack of truth, from pollution, from toxic effect... whatever you want. Because you see, the centers, the three centers I'm referring to, they won't shut down, they won't shut down; they change the legal person, but the educational space as a child and primary is still there, they won't shut down. And, ladies and gentlemen, I always say it, we always say it: in the end, time is the best judge, no doubt, and time gives and takes away reasons. And look, as an advisor, I've come up on many occasions, on many occasions, and I'll keep doing it, whenever there's a subject that has a special relevance, in any area, of the multiple areas that are in my competence. But I will always speak with responsibility because this House deserves a huge respect. I think we need to talk from this forum about issues that really matter and we need to avoid generating unnecessary alarms. And we have to talk about strict, absolutely strict data. Look, I've never, politically or personally, hidden myself, never, nor am I going to do it. I had meetings with an educational community, with the most belligerent, it's true, but my team, territorial heads, inspectors, etc. They meet whenever educational communities have asked for it and whenever they want it. And the Council isn't just the councillor, he's inspectors, territorial heads and all the team, the huge team of professionals in the Council. And I don't think anyone can say they had a negative when they got a call to explain any kind of matter associated with the reorganization of centers; I don't think so. It has always been explained; another thing is that we don't like explanations or we don't like action, but it has always been explained and always thought. And the truth is that I regret that the rigor that must be given in this House to explain things is not shared by the opposition and that it would prefer to continue in a repeated way with falsities, with jokes. Because he looks at a government, when he is responsible — and this government is — he has to make the decisions and announce them when he considers it most appropriate for the general interest. You may be wrong; you may be wrong, but you have the right to choose the times you understand most opportune to transmit a decision. And that doesn't mean anything about reliability, Mr. Álvarez said. A responsible government, Mr. Álvarez, has to announce the decisions when they can be made in fact, and this fact is in agreement with the board of directors. And to announce before this ad is true and real is simply a genuine irresponsibility. Nothing has ever been hidden from this House. This House was told — and I repeat again today — that decisions would be made on the basis of criteria, considering the improvement of the education system. Can we be wrong? Of course, but we are sure that students will benefit in the medium term. We've got it; otherwise we wouldn't have taken it. And also the time we adopted it we thought it was the best. Why? Because even if you don't seem to care, we were sure that, if you announced it in March or April, it would create an absolutely unnecessary stress in educational institutions. I'm sure this reaction now would be very similar if it was said in March, April or May. And that's why we did it on the last day of the course, to avoid these stress situations. I'm sure if we did it in March, you'd say, why do you announce this now? Why don't you guys wait until the end of the course, who'll have time since the end of the course in September? They would say it, we are absolutely sure they would say it; because there is time and time to negotiate, to dialogue, to adjust, to consensualize all those issues that have to do with the educational process of students. Because the students don't stay in the crib. Or do high school students who leave the C.I.C. remain out of school? Or are students going from ICC to institutes not going to have the educational means necessary and relevant in schools to be able to pursue an educational activity with all guarantees? It seems that the schools that host these students are institutes of, according to their opinion, the second, third or fourth category, because they do not seem to be able to go these students to centers that are even on the same plot. And look, I'm convinced that if this decision were to be made earlier -- by the way, a decision affecting four educational centers in a network of 1,100 educational centers -- I'm sure this would in no case have prevented many of those who are sitting politically on these benches, and legitimately, from also going out behind a banner doing their political game; I'm sure and understand it. Now, from there to transfer a catastrophic message, there's a very long way. And apart from that, this political attitude is nothing new; this political vision is nothing new. It's a strategy that has been repeated since 2009 constantly. It went through the official language schools -- it was going to end the world -- it went through the integrated vocational training centres, when they started -- a debate very similar to the current, even more intensively, little less that we were acquitting public education and students, something really curious! -- and it happened whenever educational strategies were launched since 2009, either multilingualism, program contracts or any other, that there was a ferocious reaction. It was to end public education. Until we heard in this House that multilingualism was for the rich to study English. I personally listened to him in this House. From there on, these educational decisions, you're going to build a story, and eventually time comes to put each one in his place. In the end, they're promoting themselves, they're moving forward, they're promoting a series of alarms, regardless of the impact and stress they generate in families, or they're also generating in students. And look, political discrepancies are absolutely legitimate, absolutely, but I think we should all be responsible and that we should all try to minimize unnecessary alarms in families, and, above all, in students. And, as I said, a responsible educational administration, as this one is, must ensure the proper functioning of the activity. Because in the end, ladies and gentlemen, you too will have to answer and, in fact, answer your actions before citizenship. Farano, and, of course, the citizens take note for the good and the bad, for all. They take note of the People's Party, the Tide, the Bloc, the PSOE, and eventually that translates into an election result. And as I said today and I said it on the previous occasion, at the end, sometimes it takes time to see to believe. Of course, you insist again and again on two axioms: in this particular case, we close the centers and, by extension, we destroy public education, and all this mixed up with a strategy I don't know whether it's about encryption or trying to generate a social debate that we understand — it's our opinion and we have a right to screen — disproportionately disproportionate, or a disproportionate option. Because, of course, here we've come to say today that we're going to put students who have special educational needs at stake, you've come to say that. That's absolute falsehood and it's true, it's true in time. Because, of course, it gives the impression that for you Galicia is like a chess board and that it's like one territory like another, and that demographic reality doesn't exist. We have to adapt our services to demand. We have to place our services where there is a social demand. And so, on many occasions, you demand, and rightly so, that educational centers be made in urban suburbs or cities because there is demographic pressure. And it's true, we also say it and we do it. Without going further, in a metropolitan area, the Coruña area, in this metropolitan area, over 2,200 new educational squares have been created in the last two years. More than 20 million euros have been invested in educational centers in Oleiros, Culleredo, Carral... and we're looking forward to boosting a new educational center in our own city. That is, if there is a need, but also in areas where more efficient and efficient management of resources can be done, what we have to do is try to streamline the public service supply so that citizens can enjoy and maintain the right and access to public service in the best conditions; even, as I said, to increase education services and to have more itineraries, to have more choice, to always keep ratios. And that, obviously, is what we're doing. And, of course, there's one thing, Mr. Álvarez, that I can't accept. The truth is, I have for you — and you know — an important personal respect, but I cannot accept you in this House saying that I personally, and the Government of the People's Party or the People's Parliamentary Group, despise the educational communities. I can't, in any way, accept that we despise the teacher and that we despise the families, in no case can I accept him. Because, coming back to an example I said earlier — that you gave me the floor to say — you said there were massive student displacements in these four centers. And, obviously, when we talked about the year 2008, I went to the source where I had consulted this. And it says the source of information that "the suppression of ESO cycles will force 300 schoolchildren to travel up to 30 kilometers" — in 2008. This is what the Socialist Party did in conjunction with the Block and in conjunction with part of En Marea, which was then part of the Block, in 2008. I mean, it seems normal to you that in 2008, with pressure... I said a part of In Marea, I didn't say everything, there's others coming on the other side, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You seem acceptable to question, with the political ferocity with which they are doing it, this measure that reaches four centers whose student will go to the centers that are practically next to them — in a particular case they are next to, there is simply a fence— and they seem normal, because they made the decision in 2008, to move students from ESO to a distance of 30 kilometers. I know a particular case that affected my comarca, from Agolada to Lalin — twenty miles and I peak. The students of Agolada de ESO were studying at the schools in Lalin in 2008. And, of course, I think this is an argument that speaks of responsible government. Perhaps at that moment the decision was well made, I suppose the Socialist Party along with the Bloc — because if it had to be adopted at the Council of the Union — would agree and have pedagogical, demographic and geographic causes to take this decision. Well, exactly the same causes, or very similar ones, are in this case, and I insist that with a great difference. What's the big difference? No student leaves his municipal term and no student will take transport to 20 or 30 kilometers, no student. And to you that at that time seemed normal and we certainly don't know today... and today we don't know how there's a political position so contrary to a decision that you adopted at the moment with a smaller demographic crisis, with a much smaller demographic crisis. [[Applause]] Because in the last ten years, the demographic fall in the interior municipalities, with the fall of the natalist, has been and is brutal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With what you felt normal in 2008, I understand that today should seem much more normal to you, especially when we realize that we're talking about schools that are practically next door. And, look, you built your political story about a falsehood, I said. They repeated again and again that four centers are closed and that's not true. Only one, only the one in Outes. And, look, what's the question? The question is, what will you say in September when children and primary students go to the buildings of the current centers, to the physical space of the current centers where you think the doors are closed? You see, they tell us that they say when no educational space has been closed, that they say when they see all the resources -- equipment, teachers, services -- they follow there and the only change... Well, there are two changes: there is a legal-administrative change, of name, of nomenclature, on the one hand; and we do not deny it, there is, in fact, a change of secondary students to the schools that are practically next to them; 56 students in Monte Cassado, in the classrooms, in the four courses of the ESO; and about 50 in the Porriño. And why do we do it? We've explained this: because we think they're going to have more educational options. And you, of course, proposed an amendment to the whole educational system. Whoever hears them speak, and only hear them speak to you, will think that the Greek education system is in absolute decline and that soon we're going to a total educational regression. Nothing further from reality. From a qualitative point of view, I think we need to see the data. We're on an education level above the OECD average for the first time in many years. The results of the PISA report place Galicia as one of Spain's best autonomous communities at educational level. And secondly, the level of inclusion, fairness, attention to diversity, they already wanted other autonomous communities to be at our level. [[Applause]] We are the autonomous community that has the highest level of inclusion of students with special educational needs in the public education system, without a doubt; with more than 4,000 professionals dedicated to inclusion. Even today, a media outlet echoed this news. In vocational training we have, fortunately, increasingly prestigious vocational training, with enormous quotas of employability, with connectivity, with an increasingly important connection to the labour market, with increasingly strong equipment in the vocational training system. We clearly bet on a modernization of teaching. A short time ago, we had a strategy, Eurolingua, with a very clear objective: that young people, who today's Greek children and children, could leave the education system and dominate three languages. We're going to present a digital teaching strategy in a very short time. Why? Because we understand that school has to equal the opportunities of all, encouraging what we understand is more important to society in the future: new technologies, foreign languages, etc. And, of course, you're also still in the short speeches and you're not getting out of there. Look, over the past two years, the budget of this council has increased by more than 8.5%. Over the past two years, there has been an offer of more than 2,000 new official teacher squares. Last year there were over 46 million investments in educational centres. We're, we're still, the autonomous community with a better ratio as a teacher. Even today 12 million euros will be devoted to the education system, 5 of which for public centers, for improvements in public centers, 1 million for vocational training equipment, 1 million for English, 2 million for digital books, etc. And this data you're sure to say it's all a lie. Well, they'll probably say it's a lie, but I think there's something that can't really be denied: in the last state calls of the German students and the Greek educational centers, both in vocational training and in ESO, they've had very high nationally comparative results. We are in many facets of vanguard, innovation, and also in fundamental issues, such as teacher training. And what you practice is that you deny and make a whole amendment from a reorganization action of four centers -- I insist -- in a network of 1,100; and you are trying -- I suppose you will be satisfied -- is to convert a purely organizational and purely administrative action into a political problem. It's a political problem they have and they even want to transfer responsibility to others. But I finish, and I end with a call for reflection on those political leaders, and on the political leaders who are on these benches, who are encouraging or who are supporting this matter. We understand the families — and so I say it publicly, and I have said it on occasions I have had occasion to talk to them — we understand the families absolutely. There's an emotional relationship between people and their educational centers, and that's very positive. And we also understand that there may be certain uncertainties, uncertainties, fears, when there is a change. Even in some cases there may be some prejudice that may affect family living. That's why we have the inspection services with the open door in schools and educational centers to solve, adjust and implement all those issues that may be oriented towards minimizing the impact that there is or that may be in this area. But what I am saying, equally — and I say it with the same force — is that it makes little sense — I insist, it makes little sense — to create a political problem of a reorganization measure where it does not close, except in Outes, nothing; where there is an administrative change in the legal persons of the centers and where there is, yes, a real change in the transfer of students from these centres, where they lived primary, child and secondary, to schools, to institutes that are practically beside themselves — in any case door with doors — and they are not, as I said before, 20 or 30 kilometres away. [[Applause]] That is why — and I am finished — I think it is a mistake to try to seek political revenue in the short term. You can give it, you can give a short-term political bailout, but in the end, gentlemen, time is always the best judge and in the end time gives and takes away reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u156	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u157	Good day again. I ask, did you hear that? I mean, you're acknowledging that they created a problem where there wasn't for one reason, which is to reduce costs, save in the public — I insist — to deliver from here to 2023 1,550 million euros public to the concert. Saving, saving, saving and saving always on the same side of the balance!, always on the same side of the balance. [[Applause]] I don't know why you're mobilized. I don't know what you're complaining about. It's all going great. We should be having a party all here. [[Applause]] Just don't bury yourself! Nothing, nothing!, here the only ones we don't know at all are the mothers, the parents, the professors, the trade union organizations... here we don't know anything, we don't know anything. Not even poor people, you build the People's Party on the Bridges. They don't know anything either. Mr. Crespo doesn't know anything in his county either. Mr. Fernández Gil, who is the municipal spokesman of the People's Party in Ribadavia, neither. It's just that we didn't know anything here, here the only one who finds out is this gentleman, who, man, today had to come to explain to us that yes, in the end if he passed through the ring and said that he shuts up the Emilio Navasqués, now yes. If you take it and check the press notes of the Galician board, I didn't close any first. Today we have left here, at least, with the education centre Emilio Navasqués, in Outes, that is closed. I'm going to Mr. Fernández Gil to dedicate nothing, half a minute, but that placard had the counsellor. Papelón is what you have, what you have, who will be the one to face in Ribadavia, just like Mr. López Crespo will have to be the one to face in Outes. Here we are all, all, absolutely wrong but you, because you have 41 seats, and the 41 seats give for everything. You — and this is addressed to both the Counsellor and the Speaker of the People's Party — are in the fear of confusing most absolute majority with most absolutists. You take it and think that because you have the absolute majority you can do and undo to your mind. Look, the electorate of the People's Party, I'm sure, the voters of the People's Party, don't vote for them to close the Emilio Navasqués in Outes, to cut classes and units on Mount Cashado, to do the same in the Porriño and to do the same in Ribadavia. It's just that I put my hand in the fire because you, when you were in the election campaign ten months ago, nobody happened to say they were, based on demographic and geographic criteria, closing the school. Isn't it true that no one ever happened to say that? Because, of course, if they went through the door and said that, the same thing was different. I'll tell them the same again. We're not wrong because we're right now the voice of who has to be up there and can't say anything. But the mobilizations, the demonstrations, neither the opposition nor the trade union organizations, were the ANPAs, the ANPAs, who learned on the eve of having to pick up their daughters and children to take them home on summer vacations, which the following day, in September, when they opened or started the academic course 2017-2018 would not be able to return to the usual school centre. And we insist that you have enough plates. In the case of Emilio Navasqués I would have had more students than in this course, which was fully normal, which they gave him in the transfer contest place a few months earlier. But we lied and invented things, and we're over-exaggerated and I don't really know how many jokes — because I'm no longer in another word — how many nonsense. I finish with what I told you in my first intervention, Mr. Rodríguez. Change of attitude, cease in that sovereignty and pre-power, because if you're here, it's not because you're used to giving explanations — because they don't give any, and, to show, the 20th of June, button of the appearance. If you're here, it was by pressure and social mobilization, which brought you to give the explanations that we're still waiting to see if you're clear about that tide of neo-language and absolutely perverse use of language. I'll finish by saying something. I don't know if anyone told you, but you're not at your best political moment. You still have one last chance, at least, to try to convince those people that there's some logical, objective reason to close those schools. Because there's no them, there's no them. There's no population criterion, because they have enough license plates, because they work normally, because they have programs of recognized prestige. Where we are is in front of a new offensive. First it was by the ones who had a low plate, and now it's already directly open the door for anyone. With us, for that, it doesn't contain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. As a classic, I'm going to address Mr. Fernández Gil first. You say we've seen this appearance with a premeditated posture. Yes, and two and two are four. It's obvious. How are we not going to have a premeditated stance if we are responding to a social reaction that is due to the closure, in one case, by merger and transfer, in three other cases, by the integration of different educational institutions? I think I used terminology consistently, don't I? Well, look, the reality, Mr. Fernández Gil, is that I don't know where I'm going to be in 2019, because the future is uncertain. But I hope you will remain in the opposition in Ribadavia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u160	You'll see, you'll see. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u161	Indeed, Mr President. But, well, it seems that the strike is not exclusive to civil society. There are also stakes on the People's Party bench. Looks like, I said, looks! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I can't make that statement bluntly. Look, Mr. Fernández Gil, I don't know much about digital developments, because they're already an analog age. But, in any case, I trust dialogue, I believe in dialogue, I believe in the intelligence of people, mothers and parents of students, mayors and mayors, concelers and concelers. And I think if they're explained and informed in advance of what they want to do, they're able to understand, because they have intelligence. What you can't turn the Education Council into "anxiolytic counseling." And to keep you from being stressed, I'm going to tell you what the next course is on the last day. And there's a difference, so you can see, Counselor, that I do believe in dialogue. When this happened to what you refer to, which was not, I repeat, the same educational reality, because you know -- you know perhaps not, but I do, and some of those who are here too -- that left the first and second course of the ESO in some of the People's Party council not to create a conflict with mayors -- not the whole ESO, which was what moved; first and second of the ESO -- gave them information. And I personally, in the province of Lugo, called all the mayors and mayors concerned about this transfer in February. I gave them time to organize, hire buses, change tyres and oil. That's the difference, the dialogue with people, to convince them -- not, of course, with applause or unanimity -- that it was appropriate to do something. And, of course, I want to understand that most of his intervention did not refer to the Socialist Party's position, I want to think it wasn't, because I don't recognize myself in the vast majority of the things he said. But if I recognize myself by asking you to consent. Could it be necessary to modify the network of centres? Yes, the demographic reality right now is that there are nearly 8,000 pupils under 16 years of age less than in 2000. It's a barbarity, it's a disgrace to this autonomous community, of course. Do you have to make adjustments? You'll have to, but you'll have to talk to people. If people, mothers and parents are told they're going to stay here at this school, at this mammoth school, and we're going to take them, with proper school transportation, with proper dining service and with appropriate conditions, to another school, they're going to understand it perfectly. But you can't go on the day you close the course and tell them that for next year you won't open the doors of that center. Consensual, man!, dialogue. They don't think people don't have the ability to understand, even to reason that it may be necessary to make some optimization in the use of public resources. I believe that we all understand it, but as citizens and, in this case, as we have already been told here, as spokespersons of all those people who do not have the opportunity to speak in this Parliament — but we are your voice at this time — what we want is that people in planning should be taken into account, that we are told, and that if we really are told if there is a planning it would be, if you are willing to talk or are going to make ad hoc adaptations at every moment, as the opportunity arises; there will be closed schools in rural because they have fewer than 7 pupils, or 3 or 5, or those who are; if we are not going to be who, because it is a necessary policy, because it is a country policy to design the school map that we want, with the centers we want, that some will have 300 students and others will have 7, but the same right to have a quality education than the other 300. And really, it's not the place to talk about the student's optativity because of the integration of these students, those ICCs, into the corresponding sites. That, by the way, I haven't heard either Mrs. Rodil or Mrs. Chao talk about colleges, second or third or fourth. Is that a twist? No, it's something new, because nobody said, nobody talked about low-quality institutes at any time. Don't put things that haven't been said in the mouths of any voicer or opposition voicer. The debate is already tense enough; according to your own words, ferocious — twice said "ferocious", there I don't know if you've also put something intense again with the adjective, I mean that each one has a propensity, I'll have others too, but fierce shouldn't have been. But don't say that we haven't said things, because I think the opposition groups have all the highest regard for the entire education system and for the professionals, and in particular, and also for the mothers and parents of the students who are affected by these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u162	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u163	Counselor, the truth is, I could tell you a lot of things. I could tell you, I could repeat -- and it would be the last time in this plenary -- that you don't put things in my mouth that we don't say. We know it's your favorite activity. He does it every time he answers our interventions. Listen, and then you won't have to invent the answers. If you listen, you'll know I'm saying something and not against it. Please, respect us! I could repeat to him the coat of hair that their evasives, the half-truths, the pride that they unleash their words, the lack of respect for the opposition, the educational community and citizenship in general. I could ask you, for example, when you decided that the bridge school hadn't closed. When did you communicate it to the educational community? Because it was this morning. This morning they informed the educational community of the bridges that random total accidents would not be closed. It was this morning. And now we know that the only thing that doesn't close is that of Outes. Mr. Crespo, you're a congratulator, congratulations. You're the only one who wasn't able to negotiate with your advisor. And you will be closed to school. So I suspect the mothers and the parents of Outes will be very eager to talk to you, because, as far as we know today, in Outes they're not welcome. All the other schools, quiet, given the fact that they're not going to change anything at all. And then you'll tell us in September, you'll come back in September to give evidence of this counselor's lies. But for the moment, we're going to give him that oxygen balloon. Those of you who are from Otes, a shame! It turns out your deputy was unable to defend your interests. Who knows why! [[Applause]] I could also explain to you, Mr. Fernández Gil, the purpose of closing public classes for us as the concert increases with the privates. [[Murmurs.]] Could I ask you, President, silence on your bench?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u164	Yes, yes. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u165	I keep listening to that background noise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u166	Silence! Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u167	Isn't it school, really, Mrs. Prado? Really? Well, please be quiet when I have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u168	No dialogue, Mrs Chao, please. No, please. Mrs. Chao... [[Strong murmurers.]] Quiet, please. Silence! We're gonna finish the show. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u169	I could explain to you how the parents and mothers of the families who see their centres closed have to save when 10 percent of the funding for the concerts increases. We could say a lot of things. However, no one like them and how they could better explain the situation they are in. That's why we think it should be them and they who took the floor. Unfortunately, it's not like that right now. From In Marea we defend — despite the noise of the popular bench, which they have to follow — the need to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House so that the people affected may speak when they are actually concerned with problems that affect them. As long as that doesn't happen, we're going to read a communiqué from the ANPA of the Navasquis. It serves as an example, above all, because, as we just learned that it is the only one that will not close, it is better for it to be his voice to be heard here! I read textually: "Good morning to all present. First of all, we want to thank you for giving us the opportunity to be here, but above all, to be able to explain our case. As most of you probably know, we came on behalf of AMPA CEIP Emilio de Navasqués de Otes. The school where our sons and daughters are studying was closed last June 22 through a call to the head office. Since that day, we've been trying to get someone to listen to the reasons why both we and the rest of the educational community, people and institutions who know our specific characteristics, we're against closure. We proceed from a Greek rural council that doesn't reach the 7,000 inhabitants and in which their population goes down year by year, which is going to favor itself with this act. With our school there were only two educational centers with which we counted in a municipality of 992 square kilometers and a population density of 66 inhabitants per square kilometer; educational centers with different educational projects, different schedules and different services provided to the community, but that met the needs of our population, each with its own identity. Both educational centres allow families to adapt their work and family needs, ensure the free choice of the educational centre, allow children and children to maintain a link with their closest surroundings, favor the infrastructures we have and keep them in good condition. Imagine if the Navasqués CEIP was important that it was even distinguished with the highest award granted by the Outes Council for its educational, cultural and social work. Mr. Crespo must know something about it. On our part, we only ask to be heard and, among all, to find a solution to keep the doors of CEIP Emilio de Navasqués open and to prevent our children, neighbors and business fabric from suffering the consequences. Thank you very much." Mr. Román, are you going to respond to this specific request or are you still too busy to meet the families who make these demands to you? Because this is about making a decision that affects the educational community — with them or against them — by counting on the people affected or by giving them back. That's what we wanted to talk about here. That's why we think we can't allow a key advisor's office for the future of a country to continue to back the educational community, which is the only thing you've done, to turn your back on the educational community and wait for guidelines from Madrid, but it turns out that that's no use now. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u171	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Look, Mrs. Chao, I assure you, because I'm aware, that Mr. Crespo talks every day to the neighbors and neighbors of Outes, listen to them, inform them and he's next to them. [[Applause]] I assure you, I assure you. Probably, in many of your political training partners who have responsibilities in local administrations, they don't find their neighbors the same eager to listen and the same desire to work for them, for example, Mr. Crespo or any of those who have local responsibilities within the People's Group. And look—I tell you why they also talked about my case—of course, I am a conchler in Ribadavia, of course! Indeed, and very proud that I am. It's a real honor for me to be able to represent my neighbours and inform them as well. And I'm going to tell you exactly the case, because I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm gonna have to face it in Ribadavia! I face in Ribadavia would be delighted. I'm going to Ribadavia, I live there. In fact, by leaving here I'm going to Ribadavia. There I have my children, there I make my life. The truth is, when all of this came to know, when the news came to light, the first thing I did was, as a public representative, to worry about the situation and to try to inform me, to seek information. I've been looking for a way to get in touch with the territorial chief. Obviously, contacting the territorial chief, I was given the explanations I asked for as a public representative. Then, automatically, what was done? Moving them to citizenship, which is what a responsible public representative has to do: talk to his neighbors. It's unfortunate that other groups did not make the same decision to transmit to their neighbors the information given from the territorial bosses, and instead they preferred to generate confusion and maintain a sort of misinformation idea that no longer existed, because the territorial bosses themselves also had an opportunity to meet with the AMPA themselves. I'm talking about the specific case of Ribadavia because I'm telling you it's a case I know. Obviously, when I live there, I know perfectly well what I'm talking about. And I'll tell you more, Mr. Álvarez. Look, you said in 2019 you didn't know where I would be, but I hoped to be in the opposition in Ribadavia. Well, man, I don't know. Obviously, I don't have the ability to guess if I'm really going to be in the opposition at Ribadavia or maybe I have another responsibility within the county or within the county government. But you know what if I can assure you? That in 2019 my children will be studying at a high-quality public school in Ribadavia. I can assure you that. [[Applause]] Despite everything you've been saying here all afternoon, I, fortunately, in 2019 will be able to take my children to study at a quality public school in Ribadavia, and that's what I referred to in my first intervention, when I said that rigor and measure help us all understand and focus a little more on the situation. Obviously, we're all in politics, we're in politics, we're in some way involved in the game of politics, because it does have that play component. But in the end, when we're talking about our activity, how it affects people's lives and reality, I think we have to give up that play component a little bit and take a little bit more the lead of the strict argument. In that sense, the truth is that I was amazed now when I heard there was no information that Emilio Navasquies was closing, which was known today, and a number of questions. I think the information was both from the council itself, in press releases, and from the territorial heads talking to management teams of the centers. I mean, in the specific case of Ribadavia, the territorial chief and the inspection with the AMPA of Ribadavia were also gathered and he was transferred all the information he needed, and he was transferred all the information and all the reality of each of the specific cases, and in that sense we understand that the fact that this information was transferred cannot be denied. We may agree with the decision, or we may disagree with the decision, but what we cannot say is that the Council did not inform the educational community and that it did not try to reassure the educational community by the Council. Mrs. Blanco, calm down, there's no problem, the educational community is all of us. I mean, I'm a family father, too. In this case my children are not yet of school age, but if I have nephews, I have a niece who studies in the Tomas de Lemos, and nothing happens, absolute normality. I think we have to be a little bit more measured and take things — as I said before — with a little bit of rigour. Finally, I don't think we can deny that the board did the work it had to do, that it was to inform the citizenry. I mean, as a public representative, in the case of Ribadavia I also did the work that I understood I had to do, that it was to inform me and transfer the information to the citizen. Too bad that from other political groups the only thing you've ever tried was to deceive and confuse. Poor favor has been given to the educational community! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u172	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Close this show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u173	Mr. President. Well, I'm a professor, it's my profession, and sometimes I recognize that my teaching and explanatory vocation doesn't have the capacity you should have to try to transfer the messages to citizenship, to the people who listen, because, ladies and gentlemen, look what I've explained, look at that I've exposed data, look at that I've made press statements to the media these days, and today I've achieved something and I'm happy, in this case as a teacher. I managed to get the opposition members to say a part of the truth or recognize that they were using a lie when they publicly said that four educational centers were closed. No way, no way. Here -- we always say that -- there's only one case where a building closes, which is in Outes. Let's make it clear. In the other buildings, in the other educational spaces of the three localities where there is CEIP: Ribadavia, The Bridges and The Porriño, primary and child students will follow in their centers without any problems, there is only one change of secondary students to the schools, located practically next door, in order to increase the educational supply. This resonates here, it's really quite simple. I recognize that I may not explain it well, because, if you did not understand this, it is really not because of the receivers of the message, it is because of me, no doubt, because I was unable to transmit this and that you had understood this, with which, really, ladies, I am surprised. Like I'm surprised when I'm accused of being proud and overpowering. I have many shortcomings as a person and as a politician, no doubt as any of us here in this enclosure. Now, all those people who've had a minimal conversation with me, they know I'll be able to have a lot of shortcomings, but pride and prepotence I honestly don't think. Now, if you understand that keeping firm in a decision that we understand positive is pride and pre-power, then I'll have to give them the reason, because here we're keeping a decision that we understand positive for the system. [[Applause]] One particular case was mentioned, a little focus was moved to Outs. We sincerely understand that students who go to the new center, out of initial uncertainty, will have better educational attention, will be integrated into a multilingual center, there will be two lines, there will be greater ability to have options, to be able to have itineraries. We're talking about centers that are practically next door, there's going to be school transportation, and there's going to be some issues to be settled, there's no doubt that certain issues will have to be settled. That's why we made available to the educational community the services of inspection and territorial leadership, so that they can carry out, adjust, dialogue, consensus and put all those issues that can be oriented, and that are actually oriented, to improve the quality of teaching. We talked about dialogue, it's funny, and it's said that in the past, if a mayor protested a lot, he wasn't suppressed. That's what you saw. And if he didn't protest, he would be suppressed. Well, I don't think that's planning, it's not a logical criterion at all. Here was a criterion that I've already said: the existence of an institute practically by the side and with available squares. The point was not that there was a mayor who had protested or not, as Mr. Álvarez said. And look, in no case if you can tell us we don't talk, we don't consent. I have here a connection to the interventions that have been made by the territorial heads of the inspection and even mine, of contacts with the educational community of the Bridges, and there are many constant contacts in this area with the educational community. And the other thing is that we get to a deal, but what we can't deny is that we're trying to find meeting points, because we understand that this doesn't benefit anyone. If we look at the problem with reality, the reality that we'll see in September is that 56 ESO students, who are divided into four groups, around ten and peak per unit, will go to the institutes that are next to them, which are divided into both, and that's reality, and here we say, is the timeline with all the contacts with the territorial head. And also in other centers. For example, in Outes, I have a record that the territorial chief will meet with the two directors, I think on Friday, he will also meet with the AMPA I think for the week. I think that's something that everyone knows and clearly shows a desire for dialogue. In any case, there's been talk of many issues that I think are important and interesting, about the map of centers... Mr. Álvarez, you know that the CEIP itself are something like Galicia, there's no other part of Spain; and why they were and why they came up, why they came up at the moment. But you also know -- and, I insist, with maximum professional and personal respect towards you -- that the map of centers evolves year by year. It's not a static map, it's not a cartesian map, it's not a Soviet map. It evolves year by year, but it evolves with absolutely clear and transparent criteria, which are known. [[Strong murmurers.]] Aren't they known? Is it true that the entire educational community in this country knows that a unit is closed if you have five students, and if you have six, you keep it? Is it true that the entire educational community in this country knows about groupings? Or does the entire educational community in this country know that, for example, in vocational training cycles there is a different threshold of minimum students in urban areas and rural areas, twelve and eight? Everyone knows. And there's a progressive evolution. We have to adapt to demographic reality. I set an example in the metropolitan area of Coruña. More than 2,200 squares have been created in recent years, and not in the city of Coruña, in the urban center of the Coruña, but in the urban suburbs, in the municipalities, let's say, where there is a greater population growth, where there is a greater demographic youth, in Culleredo, in Cambre, in Oleiros... where there is a young population, or in a new neighborhood, which is the New Month, where we are working to make a new school. Everyone knows. Now, what we can't -- no administration does or shouldn't do -- is to give a service where there's no demand. In a unitary school, if we have one or two students, what we'll have to do is give that student or two the necessary resources to go to the educational center where there are a larger number of students and children, for a simple reason of schooling and socialization of the student. Then we'll agree. With which the educational map is changing, it changes year by year. And it changes with criteria I think you're clear and familiar with all of them. And I think it's almost all explained. We insist again — and I insist — that we regret the excessive partisans and the political disproportionateness that the opposition has raised — especially in some cases — in this matter. It has become, by its pressure and strength, a purely technical, organizational, practically administrative matter, a political matter. And finally here, Mrs. Rodil, you asked us why people vote for the People's Party. Yes, I came to say something similar, I came to say why people vote or why people don't tell the People's Party this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think, Mrs. Rodil, that in the end, with our mistakes and our successes, because we do things reasonably well, or at least better than other political formations. [[Murmurs.]] I'm telling you that, obviously. [[Applause]] And, by the way, I'm just going to put forward a general reflection that connects with what I just said, and that links with the speech — let's say — a catastropheist that arises from the education system in Galicia — politically speaking, Mr. Álvarez, saying so with the political connotations that you have the floor, of course. You look at the year 2009, look at other autonomous communities where you've been ruling and ruling the left for many years, and compare. You look at the Welsh educational system, look at the main variables in the Welsh education system, and wonder if they're better or worse than in the year 9. There are many variables: the failure of schools, the employability of vocational training, the improvement of quality in the results of the PISA report, the integration of students with special educational needs, the higher or lower number of school transport squares or school dining, the level of innovation, the levels of modernization of technological education, as well as language teaching. Look at him, look at him! And look too -- and I think we can all look there with a certain historical tranquility -- what they did from the opposition whenever any measures were taken in the educational field. And I cited two examples: the official language schools and also the ICFP, the integrated vocational training centres. Look at what you said at that time, which is practically a picture of what you say today, practically reproduces the debate and what you say today. I was the spokesperson at that time, as Mr. Fernández did today, and the speech was practically the same. Look, ladies, what you're doing now. Look, ladies, what you're saying now. Because I am sure that in a short time — and not too long, as has passed — they will be sorry and sorry for trying to create a political problem where there is only one positive measure for the education system. In the end, as always, ladies, time will give and remove reasons. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u174	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. López Crespo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. López Crespo, why do you want the word? Give a voice to Mr. López Crespo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u175	On the basis of Article 76, by allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u176	If you could just tell me what the inaccurate allusion is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u177	BNG's spokesman and In Marea's spokesman have repeatedly cited me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u178	They quoted, but what is the inaccuracy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u179	...about my attitude towards the closure of Emilio Navasqués school, and, as I'm totally disillusioned, I wanted to say two words nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u180	Yeah. The truth is, you've been alluded to. In particular, I understand — I said it now — and there was a clearer allusion from Mrs Chao...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u181	Several, several...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u182	I understand that you — and that to a Member I understand that you can disturb him — do not talk to his people. That allusion came. Then you have the right to replicate that. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, right, that's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u183	First, I mean, I'm so sorry to have to intervene, I'm so sorry. I didn't want to intervene, and the first speeches of the first round were, as they are, two intelligent, young and eager to get far in politics, dealing with the issue in a global way. The bad thing is we go into the private, and then it's tragic. It's tragic because I, who am 67 years old, who was mayor twenty-two years old in Octes, devoted myself to teaching and there I am known and valued as a teacher, not as a politician. And then, from the day the news came, we, from the Town Hall -- where I am still the mayor's lieutenant -- told the community: Come here, if you like. And they came to the Town Hall and we spent two hours explaining what we wanted. And there we were asked to protest against the closure. And the Outes Government said, "We don't protest against the closure because we're not in disagreement with the closure. We understand the goat you have for the affective connection to the center, the way to communicate to you, but... [[Strong murmurers.]] Please, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u184	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u185	Ma'am, calm down! We informed them, then we had a full vote, and the Government of Outes voted against it. And then we explained to them that we were going to contact the Council so that all those aspects that could improve education at the Emilio Navasque school would be going to be students. And since then we've been in constant contact with the Council. Test that on Friday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u186	I'm sorry. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, you have to know the rules of procedure. Three minutes!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u187	I'll finish now. Inaccurateness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u188	You're entitled to three minutes. If we don't know the Rules of Procedure, bad business. Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u189	I know your co-religionaries in Outes also say, "How do you listen to Crespo? And I don't want to convince you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u190	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u191	I want to tell you three things to the spokesperson for BNG and the spokesperson for En Marea. At Emilio Navasquiese school, you say there are seven or eight students, but you don't say there are three childhood courses together in a class.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u192	Thank you. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u193	Three childhood courses, which is not pedagogic, two primary courses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u194	Thank you. Mr. Lopez Crespo, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u195	We are with the educational community of Outes, and, if you like, we invite...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u196	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Blanco, why do you want the word? Can you tell me exactly what inaccuracy was pronounced? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was alluded, but what exactly was the inaccuracy? What was it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u197	Yes, yes, about my conduct, about that he was nervous. Then I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u198	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u199	Yes, yes, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u200	No, no, sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u201	Mr President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I have the right you have to give me the floor. It's part of my conduct to be or not to be nervous. Please! I just think it's amazing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u202	No, no. Quiet, please! No, no, it's over. I'm not giving any more words. It's over! Silence! The debate is over. I was in the debate and listened carefully to what it was like. It wasn't exactly like that. He asked for a bit of peace of mind for a gesture that you had done, nothing more. The debate is over! [[Murmurs.]] Thanks to the guests, the debate is over. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, allusions have no replica, Mrs. Chao. In the Rules of Procedure, allusions have no replica. The debate is closed. [[Murmurs.]] No, I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure I know. In allusions there is no replica. No, no, it's closed! No, there's no, it doesn't work. No replicas proceed, closing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, it's not appropriate to talk, the debate is closed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Regulation says allusions are not answered. The debate is closed. [[Protests.]] Motions. I pray the House services to help our guests in order to leave the full. Silence! No, I'm not giving any more words. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it doesn't come after that. Mr. Villares, it's not comin'. When there was an allusion... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! There isn't. Sorry! It's the same. It doesn't work. No, no, of course. I didn't hear that. [[Protests.]] With so much noise, I can't hear. [[Applause]] I know what the regulation says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now, therefore, we are debating the motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u203	To formulate the motion, Mr. Lago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u204	Good afternoon. Well, I know we've got a full complex and a long one, but what a bad luck the job market in this House has! Every time we talk about work, there's the fuss and the abandon. [[Murmurs.]] They don't even put the microphone on me. All right!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u205	I haven't told him the time yet. We'll wait for the guests to leave. Silence! Help our guests to leave the full. [[Strong murmurers.]] You can start now, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u206	Thank you very much. This is a motion and not an interpellation, so our intention is not to make a critical balance of the Government's action, but to reach an agreement from all groups to get it approved. And that leads me to change my tone and even change my period of analysis; because I'm not going to focus on time, on Feijóo's legislates, but on the time of the crisis, since in 2009 everything started to go wrong. I'm going to start with a positive data. Attention, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I will give you a positive report. Since early 2014 the economic cycle in Galicia has changed, 50,000 jobs have been created. Like EPA says, because I say so. A positive data in quantitative terms, but it has very worrying characteristics. All the wage employment generated since 2014, everything, is precarious. Today there are fewer people working as employees with indefinite contracts than in 2014; we have changed unemployment for precariousness. However, the destruction of the employment crisis was so widespread that this positive dynamic only served to nuance a demolition balance. I mean, it's been data since 2008, so there are variations on what we're talking about in the morning. In Galicia there are 156,200 jobs less than nine years ago. In the last nine years we've destroyed 13% of the jobs there were, while in the state average it was 5%. Since 2008 we have lost 51,300 jobs in the industry, 1 out of every 4 of them. Despite our productive specialization and our competitive advantages, we lost 20,600 jobs in agriculture, livestock and fishing, 1 out of every 5 of them. We're stopping for a moment in this data: in Galicia there's still 200,000 people out of work, it's 108,800 more than when the crisis started. I don't know if you took that data. Today there are 110,000 unemployed more than in 2008. The number of homes with all their members unemployed has increased by 100% since the crisis began; and it has doubled twice and half the homes that do not have any income: neither salary, nor pension, nor unemployment benefit. In Galicia there are over 90,000 people in very long-term unemployment, and in 2008 there were 15,000, i.e., long-term unemployed people at risk of being excluded from the labour market, now in the so-called recovery, multiply by six times those in the recession. This is what we call the Galician anomaly: let us be the autonomous community that has the worst work evolution of the seventeen autonomous communities in the state. It's not that we're among the worst, that we're the worst. We have a problem, a very serious problem, which we have to give an immediate answer, so the Parliamentary Group of En Marea brings this initiative, because the Government does not. We've been in government for a year now, the government talks and talks about a law of employment, but I haven't brought a single initiative into this House. I'm going to explain the motion, but I would like to thank you for your presence in the room of the secretary-general of the Galician Workers' Committees union and the UXT Secretary of Institutional Policy. It's not a formal thank you, is that a good part of what we're going to propose here if you feed, drink, the alternatives of the unions. This House needs to talk more about the problems of most of society, which, without any doubt, have to do with the labour market. And they have to have a role — and we commit ourselves to it — of greater presence to the trade union organizations of our country. The proposal in particular is a soft proposal, because it seeks the agreement of the People's Party. First, to present before the end of the year a strategy for employment in Galicia that aims to achieve more and better employment. This strategy for employment will have to be agreed with the most representative employers and unions in this country. It must have concrete and quantifiable targets and deadlines and provide the necessary budgetary resources to carry it out. The quantitative objective that we propose would be to recover, at least, the rate of occupation that existed before the great recession. And that implies 150,000 new jobs, to leave the unemployment rate below 8%. To create more jobs, but above all, better jobs, in the face of that disaster that is now happening in our labour market. That implies that the majority formula of the contract must be the indefinite full-time contract. That can be quantified, we propose that this employment be quantified for Galicia; that it be achieved and that it be below 15% the rate of timing at the end of 2020. An employment strategy that has to act by boosting economic growth — no growth in the economy there is no generation of jobs — but also has to develop active employment policies. To boost the growth of the economy by acting on a number of factors. First, changing the orientation of economic policy, replacing compulsive austerity with expanding policies, and wage devaluation by a real increase in wages, in order to boost domestic demand, which is the key factor in economic growth, as has just been said by Fatima Bañez. Take advantage of our country's capacities in the productive sectors where we have competitive advantages, of scarce resources or of businesses, to be able to boost the productive structure of our country. We need to prioritize the sectors of activities linked to the shift from a production model to a low-carbon economy, where new sectors will gain weight, while other more traditional ones are recovered, where Galicia has clear competitive advantages. We need to develop the activities linked to our country's environmental wealth, its natural resources, its high-quality brand image we have in primary sector productions, which must also serve to give a future to rural Galicia, giving people employment opportunities and thus setting population in territories that are on the way to population desertification. We need to increase jobs related to the public services of the welfare state, both the traditional ones — health and education — and the new ones — which have to do with the attention of older people or dependents. We need to use a public procurement strategy to empower private sector companies that hire administrations to have a socially responsible labour policy. Economic growth is yes, but employment policies as well. Because when there are 217,000 unemployed, 90,000 of them over two years old, and many of them over 45, we risk that if there are no active employment policies, these people don't get back into the labour market. And for that we propose an active employment policy, within the Employment Strategy, which is based on four strategies. First, to promote from the Government a strategy that seeks the agreement between employers and trade unions that addresses the most relevant issues in the country, such as labour relations, collective bargaining, wages, labour health and the fight against labour discrimination. Defending that different levels of government change labour policy to combat precariousness, inequality and labour poverty. Let the deep imbalances be corrected in the current model of labour relations that are aggravated by the last two labour reforms, which have to be repealed to build a more balanced and fairer model, which aims at stable and right employment. To foster an agreement for quality employment with the participation of all levels of government with competences in the field, with the country's employers and trade unions and all those public and private entities that make up our productive and labor structure. Apply an urgent shock plan against unemployment, acting through the Galego Public Service of Employment in favour of people who have the greatest difficulties of employability, which will require an increase in their resources, both budget and staff. I'm done with the last proposal. When we did the interpellation, I think it became clear and we graphically made it. When we ask the Employment Adviser in this House, we are always told by the Industry Adviser, because it is incomprehensible that our country's main problem — unemployment, job insecurity — that this Government's main challenge, does not have an institutional rank with sufficient power to articulate the whole complex and complicated strategy. In that sense, our final proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u208	...is that the Work Council will recover with all competences, budget allocation, staff and organizational structure with greater expertise and experience to take responsibility for this central task. It's over. Pour it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Lake Peñas. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u210	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. Lago, if the force of the arguments does not convince the People's Party's bench, you can do the same by the way of your plea. I won't be the one who gave it back in that attempt. Indeed, in Galicia the lack of employment and the great deterioration of the existing one represents the most serious economic and social problem we have. This is evidenced in the great mobilization on the street that many workers and workers are carrying out in defense of their jobs and in demand for job improvements; these improvements and the work situation stolen from the excuse of the crisis. Of course, at the BNG we keep saying that the unemployment figures we have are inescapable. And behind this unemployment situation there are dramas: housing loss, difficulties in coping with basic needs and trumping the expectations of developing a life with a certain dignity. Unemployment, poverty and social exclusion are constant, in spite of this buying speech that since the system they want to impose on us. The situation and unemployment figures must be added to the worrying labour situation: the destruction of stable work and with decent remuneration for precarious work and poor wages. It might seem like a topic where parents and mothers are saying goodbye, under conditions that are minimally workable, and hiring children and children in much worse conditions. But unfortunately, that is the reality that we live in day to day: workers who with their work do not cease to be poor or out of exclusion; indefinite recruitment is increasingly residual; there are fewer and fewer people charging some kind of benefit, some kind of allowance, and those who charge them, they get less and less time and less amount. It is clear that the consequences of the lack of income put thousands of Greeks and Greeks in a position of social exclusion, on board it or directly in that situation of exclusion. In the last decade they attacked by land, sea and air the main gains and rights that the working class had conquered over many years of struggle and sacrifice. Under the crisis, pensions, labour rights, wages, social protection and health coverage were assaulted, and today poverty is related to precarious work and partial contracts, with rotation, precariousness and exploitation. That 32% of the workers have a wage lower than the minimum inter-professional wage should be cause of concern and occupation on the part of the German Government. But it's not like that on your day-to-day basis, it's not like that in the budgets, and it's not like that in the execution of those budgets, which, as far as employment policies are concerned — even if they're scarce now — in their configuration, we see how year after year it remains unimpacting a very important part of that money that had to go to the working class in Galicia. We have to add to this the drama that this whole situation has a much more important effect on our country's young and girls, who only come out in emigration. This is the reality, it's the mirror of the labor situation in Galicia. In the Spanish state, it's one of the few cases where the wages of the working class have dropped in the last six years, 11%. If we had time to break down that reality, we'd see how in the whole it increased in those who had the most and came down in the vast majority, especially in those who had less wages, which multiplied the drama. It is clear that the labour reforms achieved their goal, which was that we worked more, we paid less and with less right: that situation of any work, with any salary, with any condition, that they tried to impose. It is clear that the reasons for taking Galicia's labour situation seriously are beyond reason for us to have a government that prioritized this situation and dealt with it. For this reason, the BNG will support this extensive initiative. As we have already said on other occasions, if we have come to the detail of each of them, some of us seem more correct, others less, but what is true is that it involves an immense part of the problems that the situation has in our country, with which we will support it, hoping that, if it is not for the work of the arguments, it is for the work of that petition that Mr. Lago makes to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u212	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, for your tranquillity, I will tell the members of the People's Party that this Member is not as nervous as it was before, which is outraged and deeply concerned by the situation of schools, and in my case especially the province of Ourense. [[Applause]] As indignant and concerned we are also from the Socialist Group, and I want first of all not to forget to greet the class unions that accompany us today, it is always a pleasure to have you here, of course. It is necessary and so says the initiative, that the truth must be said that it is extensive, that it is a political programme, which is resorting to a 180-degree change in the employment policies of this Government, which we believe is necessary, because yes, if you are creating jobs. We agree with that, but we run — and we said it the other day — as with the headless person, we don't know which direction, which is actually towards the abyss, towards the abyss of precariousness, towards the indexes of temporality that point the hairs, 93% of the last data we knew. I don't have much time to get into each of these measures, but we do agree that a quality employment agreement is needed. It must be borne in mind that 1 out of every 4 -- and it's a lot, ladies and gentlemen -- young people in this country are working today to be poor. They're not data from the Socialist Group, they're from the CJT, and we have the third lowest salary in all of Spain. There is a need for an unemployment shock plan, because it is unthinkable that there are 75,000 homes in this country with all members in a state of unemployment. And all of this how do you do it? For from our point of view, in addition to the measures that are included in this initiative, it is important to establish it on the foundations that we consider to be basic and that are not existing right now, one of them is social dialogue, and the other is training. It's more, today with the current on the table, we could talk about social dialogues and fully intermixed formation. And I read a headline: "Tension between Employment and Social Agents for Training." Mrs Fátima Bañez, while she says that wages must be raised, it turns out that we do not know very well what she is going to do with training courses, and we do not know because she has this government — on the right — the peculiarity, the ease of putting in line with the Confederation of Entrepreneurs and trade unions, not to create employment and not for collective agreements, but to cast up crispaction, and I read: "It is understood as a unilateral rupture of negotiation on the part of the government." These are statements that are neither of UGT, nor of Commissions, nor of the Socialist Group, it is of the CEO. "CEOE recalls that the 2015 training reform was developed — for the first time in history — without consensus." The Socialist Group is not saying it, he's telling the CEO himself. And if we add to that the state of the formation of the occupied in our autonomous community, 17.1% is the degree of execution of the 2016 program, because the truth is we are concerned. And there's Mrs. Lake a question of the whole initiative, which I repeat is very extensive, which we haven't seen before, and it's the topic of the Labour and Employment Council, and we haven't seen it because we don't think that because there's a specific advisorship that doesn't take with economy and industry, the People's Party is going to make different policies that it's doing up to now. We don't think it's a question of institutional rank, not even of organic structure, we think it's its model, it's its political structure, its ideological structure, and what they're putting in place is its political, social and economic model. No more than that. However, this little choice, so to speak, will not prove insurmountable for the Socialist Group to support this initiative today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u213	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u214	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Even before my exhibition began, I wanted to greet Ramon Sarmiento, the new secretary general of Labour Commissions, and also the head of UXT, and wishing them much luck and success in his work, and recognizing that I am an important part of the goals of getting a job, a decent job and a stable job in our autonomous community. Well, I also want to thank Mr. Lago and Mrs. Noela Blanco, who have recognized some of the successes we've had in creating jobs in recent years. Well, we know that there's a lot of work to be done, we know that goals are not yet met, that there are very disadvantaged sectors, but I think the reality of economic recovery and employment in our country, is a collective achievement of workers, entrepreneurs, social agents, but also of the policies of the Government and the People's Party. In Galicia, unemployment has dropped in the last 2 years, at lower levels than in June 2009, which is a reality for ladies. So I wonder, what you don't like, Mr. Lago, opposition gentlemen, what you don't like about the data of the recovery we're experiencing. Don't you like the drop in unemployment in more than 20,000 people every year? Don't you like the rise in social security membership, which last year has grown to 22,000? Don't you like the 17,655 new jobs that were created this June? You have to explain to us and to the Greeks if it seems to you that the 10,320 new contracts that were signed in Galicia over 2016 seem irrelevant. If it seems bad or little, 17,87 % of the rise in indefinite, indefinite recruitment, and that exceeds 7 points at the time. What do you think of the 13.75% increase in full-time recruitment, 5 points above part-time recruitment? Ladies and gentlemen, you have to tell us what's wrong with you, or if you think it's wrong to increase the number of homes that arrive easily, or a lot of ease at the end of the month, which has increased to 54.5%, increasing more than 10 points in the last year. That wages increase in Galicia in the last year by 0.87%, placing us in Galicia as the fourth largest raising community of wages. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the community that in the last 9 years has experienced the highest rate of wage increase since the beginning of the crisis, exceeding the state average by almost 5 points. And I ask, so if everything seems so negative to you, you'll have to explain it to us in this House and to the Greeks and to the Greeks, which is what you don't like, what is wrong with you? Look, we're almost going to have to thank you for bringing this motion to us, because it will allow us to reaffirm our conviction that the employment policies of the Galician Union are being positive. This is the reality. And we recognize that much remains to be done, we agreed with you and we know it, but they'll have to recognize that we're much better than 1 year ago, or that we're much better than when you, the opposition lords, left the Government. And we could and would like to work together and in the same direction, we are willing, but your motion today is an amendment to the entire economic and employment policy of the Galician Union, an amendment which you wanted — as you said, Mr. Lago — to review and put on the ground the measures that are giving good results and generating jobs. Mr. Lago, to bring here an initiative of this silence, it is important to be referendumd, here in Parliament and outside the street, and the referendum basically damages citizens when they come to the polls, and the employment policies that you propose have already been examined by the Greeks and the Greeks and qualified with a suspension. Your Honor, you took part in 2007 in the development of the Bipartite employment strategy, which now in some way wants to re-edit, which is why they were committed to creating 50,100 jobs, and they achieved the opposite effect: leaving in March 2009 — as it seems to be forgotten — the inter-annual rate of unemployment above 32%. I mean, they destroyed 50,900 jobs. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a suspension in employment policy. Mr. Lago, the employment data from the Board are far above what you committed in 2009 and policies are the most appropriate. [[Applause]] They recognize it, they raise more percent of the indefinite and full-time contracts than the temporary and the average-day contracts. Unemployment falls into the main variables and continues to increase memberships of Social Security. The labour market continues to improve in Galicia, with a positive tendency to meet the challenge we set with Agenda 2020, to create at least 80,000 new jobs. Look, today we have an important data in that direction, the record of 16,000 jobs in tic companies in Galicia. So what they're proposing to change the orientation of economic policy doesn't make much sense, gentlemen. We can reach agreements, but the draft and new account doesn't seem reasonable to us. It criticises austerity, but it was precisely austerity that allowed us to grow now above the average of the Spanish state, and at the same time we were the community that increased debt the least. Look, Mr. Lago, don't talk about changing them from a production model, for example, towards a lower carbon economy, when we just approved the Strategy against Climate Change. Of course, they're proposing things that we already have. Don't talk about increasing public service jobs when you know that public employment offers this year from the Government of June are 1,043 places in education, and 1,600 places in health care. Or that the resources to dependency, in which even the budget allocation is increased in the law that we approved this morning, many of them are geared towards hiring professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u216	Finished, President. On the [...] you have already answered Mr Tellado on your day, when a motion was debated on this subject. Finally, President, and I didn't want to overlook the point of his motion concerning the involvement of the entire Greek society in the commitment to employment. Look, the president of the Union himself recently defended the need for an autonomous framework agreement to make a qualitative leap in job creation and to reduce the inequalities that persist, so that negotiation takes greater care of sensitive aspects of how employment is being created in Galicia. Measures are being taken to further deepen the stability and quality of employment, and pay equality between women and men, including the most vulnerable. Today morning we approved 5 million euros for work insertion programs. Mr. Lago, we cannot support your motion because we believe that the policies that govern the Union and the Government are much more effective and are giving better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Gomez Salgado. Mr. Lago Peñas has the floor on the motion's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u218	How right, Montse Prado! It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I'm going to draw a lesson from this meeting today, because the government party doesn't care that we make a constructive motion, that we make it soft, that we seek an agreement, that we avoid any direct criticism, that we pose a common strategy, it doesn't matter. [[Laughter]] Even, Mr. Gómez, I will overlook all the inconsistencies of the concepts, all the mistakes of your intervention, I will overlook us because that is not my intention. But when I heard him talk about everything we said on the paper, you said that he agreed and that he's already doing so in Galicia. I didn't hear you say anything about what you said on the paper, nothing, what you were against. Then why don't you vote for it? Why don't you vote for it? I'm going to say it, and I know it's a joke, because I'm the party of the no, directly. The Socialist Party's companion, Labour Counsellor... there was a time when work issues were inside a German Government — I'm not going to say who was president — because it was understood that work problems were a problem of public order, so where they were to be directed was the inside. I think there should be a work council. I'll stop for a moment, Mr. Gomez, the tone, at last, for something a little more dramatic. How can I ask that question? How is it possible that in a country that has 217,000 unemployed, the government representative asks me what I don't like? How can it be that in a country that has 90,000 people who have been unemployed for two years, the Government is asking me what I don't like? How can it be that, if from 2014 until now, all the wage employment that has grown is precarious, can you ask me what I don't like? The lack of empathy I can't understand. It will be true that there are classes and class struggle, and it will be true that there are no children, daughters and brothers on that bench in emigration, are not unemployed, are the workers and poor workers... I remember a sentence from a president of this government who said that, in fact, the children and daughters of the right-wing people were smarter and that is why they approved more opposition. That must be the spirit. How can they have that lack of empathy for that social drama that lives in the country? That in recent times unemployment has been reduced? Yes. But there are 217,100 people out of work in this country, and we'll meet some of them, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u220	I'm done with an idea. They talk less about unions and respect us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. We moved on to the next motion, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to hospital care during the summer months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u222	The following amendments were tabled to this motion: from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Ms Eva Solla Fernández, and from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Manuela Monserrat Pardo Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u223	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u224	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. It must be — as a fellow said — that this not to stop to eat too much tension, because I see a little upset plenary, even with the opposition coming out here to pose things. Even though, as another colleague told you, that seems more common. In any case, we have seen this interpellation of the last plenary, and bring the motion here today, certainly constructively about what we believe to be a problem we should face among all. From our point of view, Welsh health if you have a planning and staff problem, but this is not a problem that should affect -- as if we think it affects too much -- the planning that should be done in summertime. Summer planning must be done. We believe that two fundamental criteria must be met. First of all, ensure quality service. Secondly, to ensure, of course, the workers' rights. On that basis, a seasonal planning must be made, and, of course, summer is the time of the year when most vacations take the professionals. However, we have a certain starting point problem. Why? Because, from our point of view, planning would at least deserve to be done with a little bit of a way, with a little sense, which we think is not being done. Why? Why do we think it's not done? Making a brief halt to the current reality in terms of personnel, the 2016 health barometer that makes the CIS -- it's not an institution that controls no neo-communist organisms, the Communist-Revolutionary League, or Maoist, but a state institution -- says that in specialized care Galician users qualify their specialized attention as one of the three worst in Spain, and 4 out of every 5 people say they deserve some kind of improvement. Mostly, as we all know, one of the associated problems or that motivates these types of ratings is the waiting lists. The waiting lists basically occur because they have staff deficits. There may be other planning problems, but mainly because of staff deficits. How's our staff? We have one of the ratios of staff per citizen of the lowest in Spain, obviously under the Spanish average. We have one of the three worst annual rates of variation. When many communities are growing up in their professional ratio per person, we're going down; we're going over in 0.01 to some community, and we're going over widely in Ceuta; all the rest are over. We have at the beginning of this legislation a little over 2,500 professionals less than they are now about 3,000 in 2009. Counsellor does not provide personal data. It does not allow us to know Sergas's personal data. Some of the unions point out that there are more than 7,000 vacant squares, in budgets which are obviously misleading by themselves, because despite the fact that there has been a replacement rate for many years, the stands say they have the same staff as before the replacement rate, which is either a lie or illegal. The Spanish school medical organization says that 1 out of 2 doctors in Spain has a contract of stability, and 1 out of 2 — the other — no. The average of unstables — these unstable medical contracts — is 7 annual contracts. The autonomous communities that do have better data than we do in ratios, in stability, are, among other things, Navarre, Euskadi, Aragon and Asturias. And I don't mean to say that it happens — pure chance — that in no government does the People's Party. There are temporary contracts in Spain that have increased since the arrival of the Government of Mariano Rajoy. From 2012 they increased almost 40% —39.1% — temporary contracts in Spanish health. There is a judgment of the European Union Court of Justice in 2016 that speaks of recruitment fraud, for concaterating long-standing small contracts, the staff which is, of course, the structural part of the system. Posts that are structural that we are covering with staff with hour, day and week contracts. There's jurisprudence in this regard. Despite what we were told when we talked about this in committee, that this would affect Sergas, there are already judgments against Sergas in that sense. Today, even an increase in staff matches has been approved, which some of us have had the opportunity to say. Since they were not approved in the budgets, we told the Counsellor: Mr. Counsellor, you're going to have to increase the game for Sergas staff. They told us not to, and today they had to approve it. So planning a service reduction inevitably needs to start with a minimum of stability that the health system in Galicia today does not have, so we believe that this summer's health planning is not to optimize, it's not to rationalize, it's to race, to be more scarves with a health system that — let me tell you — I think the party that supports the Government does not believe in it, because, if not, it believes in the health system, it would personally hire that you can do your work with quality. Arguments about the system and the reduction. The beds aren't closed, they're enabled. Allow me to joke: I omitted from the motion the word enabled to see if I could convince them that they could vote in favour of me. And today, given the amount of euphemisms about which centers don't close, there's localization changes, there's reorganization, there's transfers... finally, I think the euphemisms is fine, but when a bed can't be used because there's no staff to take care of it, because we don't have the capacity for human and material resources, the bed is closed. Anyway, the euphemisms are nice. It is true that, in addition to euphemisms, from the council itself, up to four distinct figures of percentage of beds that will be closed, and I bet openly that there will be a fifth, which will be the real, which will probably be the greatest, but at last we will continue like this. And also if you gave me one argument the other day: other governments do as well. Yes. I was also told that other governments have done so. Yes, of course they did. And the councilman told me about 2008. Yes. In 2008 there were 34,551 people working in Sergas in Galicia. Today — although we don't have data because the Council doesn't make them easy — it's not 34.551, it's a lot less. At that time 520 beds were closed, and this year the forecast is to close 1,200, many of them in services that have 100 percent of occupation during the winter. I mean, if we did a data recollection, one would have a very simple chart of how many beds are closed. And one data -- as we all know -- does not show reality, but a data accumulation at least shows a trend. Statistics say it's very good to plot, and this is the chart of the annual closing of beds in Galicia that made it easier for me in the previous plenary session of the current government. And I think it's no coincidence that the tallest peaks are at present, it's no coincidence. That's right, we had a proposal, in the face of a closure of less than half beds, you guys in 2008 said it was grotesque, and the activity would be under minimum. I'd like to know what they think, the same ones who said it was grotesque to close 520 beds, that they're going to close 1,200. It'll probably be very good now, because here we all know that no one knows. Everyone thinks but here you know nobody, unless you have the People's Party's meat, which are the ones who know and are very smart, and the rest of us have to shut up because we don't have the ability to think. In any case, today and here we are prepared worse than today in other places, or here in other times, to plan a reduction in services in the summer. The situation with our health is limited. If we reduce services openly, as if you're proposing, things will happen to us like there are services that cannot be given in summer because of vacations. I'll be told no, but the sanitaries are sitting in their doors: "You can't serve radios for staff vacations." "The patients saturate the emergency corridors waiting for room." This week. And this one today. You complain about the E.R. in the Marcide Architect Hospital. Yesterday. All these consequences are a fruit of eliminating personnel, and I am surprised that these things that happen in emergencies, which are already happening in January with the flu, do not make the Government of this country recapture and say that it's good to be so diligent in reducing services, but they could already be something diligent when the flu epidemic arrives, which always arrives in January. I say this because at the last plenary session I was also told that it wasn't planned for stations, and I humbly want to add that in January there tends to be flu. Besides the consequences, what do we bring? A proposal; a proposal that demands aggressive, invasive, very hard, very difficult things. Ask —heard of us! — data. We're asking for a report because we understand that such a wide variation in data to make these decisions — i.e., today with less personnel if more beds are closed — will have some support in the data; data that is always made available in half, never in writing. Even though in the end, when you have to hurry up the answers in writing, it's good that they hurry them not to work a couple more hours. But it is true that we are never made easy. So we asked for data. Based on what data are these forecasts and pre-summer decisions made? We also ask him to evaluate the posteriori. I was taught that if it wasn't evaluated, it can't be learned. And we also call for those people who, being on the recruitment lists, are available to be able to supplement health services. So, those who have to go on vacation because they have their right, they can go and cover their service. We're in favour of optimizing and we're in favour of rationalizing, so we're not going to be in favour of having this opportunity to race with health, play with it and, curiously, take advantage of it so that health has the worst service and we have to approve today a million and a half euros to pay for the concerted clinics to do the operations that we don't do in public health because, as far as we can, we reduce services. That's what we don't want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u225	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u226	The bed resource is less and less necessary, the beds are important in hotels but not in hospitals, but the absence of open beds produces situations such as those just mentioned here by the Socialist Party Member. That absence of beds that open in a moment is lacking what you're doing is that people suffer, that people are in the corridors, that people are badly cared for, that professionals have an insufferable care burden and that they have to see day by day how people who come to hospital are not treated in the conditions they should. The People's Party proceeds year after year to close an indecent number of beds. They call it whatever they want. I hope those who come on behalf of the People's Party to stand on this initiative do not fall into the temptation to turn their speech around whether they close or not. The reality is they're out of service. So in 2010 it was 588; in 2011, 670; in 2012, 787; in 2013, 1,105; in 2014, 1,200; in 2015, similar amounts; and in 2016 another 1,200, we suppose. Let us assume this because we must again denounce the darkness, the lack of transparency — and all the words we can put to it — of the People's Party in the Government of the Union. Because the data has to be taken from here and there, because they don't have the courage to give the data. And the closing of beds has consequences, as much as you intend to deny it. It has consequences, it has consequences in the care and it has consequences in the work. In the care system, it means greater difficulty to access health services, paralysing activities such as surgery and increasing waiting lists, saturation of emergency services, which are already saturated by those primary waiting lists, by that non-contracting. And the words mean, yes, the words mean, and instead of "not hiring" you now use the term "interreplacement." What does that mean? Well, cover up, do your work, and do your work next door, your work and the work next door. Or, as the CEO at the 5th Commission said last week, working as a team, there's no problem, that they're not everyone's coupons, that we have to work as a team, with which there's no waiting lists or professionals who have more or less, they work as a team. They have consequences, decisions made by the People's Party have consequences. And at the end of these consequences is a deterioration of public health in our country. BNG agrees that we have to address this situation, that we have to make decisions, but not exactly how the Socialist Party draws on this initiative. That is why we tabled an amendment to point 2 and point 3. We tabled replacement amendments and in paragraph 2 we proposed that no hospital units should be closed, the recruitment and replacements needed for staff not to proceed with bed closure at Sergas hospital, to have all the resources available to Sergas — cams, surgery — while there are waiting lists, and to do no diversion of patients to private health while there are available resources that can be used in public centers. We don't think it's a good thing we should close our beds and adapt our staff resources to the needs of this bed close. Of course, it seems to us that this is not the way. And when this morning the People's Party just approved an amendment to the budget for which one and a half million euros are spent on private health to lower the waiting lists, more reason for the amendment we tabled today. We, of course, do not do well, do not accept and do not support that resources are constantly derived from private health as long as public resources are closed, as long as they are personal without hiring, as long as they are closed to the surgeons, as long as they are closed to the beds. With which, of course, we do not give good this situation of closing beds and, therefore, we do not do well to adapt the staff at the time of the summer to that situation. And we also tabled an amendment to the third point that we agree to examine what the situation and staff needs are. We believe that it must be at the sectoral table, workers and workers choose their public representatives, and we believe that it must be that representation to which this work is done with the object of analyzing what the situation of the staff is to ensure their stay throughout the year, to analyze what the needs are in summertime, what the needs are in the peaks of the flu, what the needs are on time and throughout the year. We believe that must be the framework for what is done. And we fully agree that it is necessary to provide data, that it is good enough of so much scurantism, of playing with the data, of not knowing how many beds are actually closed, of which services, for how long, how many will be opened later in September or October, or will not be opened, if this is going to be the practice of all years, of which a percentage is closed in summer and then in October a percentage is not opened and then added to those 600 that have already been lost in public health since the turn of Noñez Feijóo to the Government of Junta. With which, we hope the BNG amendment will be accepted. And I insist that, after the adoption this morning, of allocating a million and a half euros for private health, we believe it is more necessary than ever that this drop in the waiting list is done in public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u228	Thank you, President. Yes, indeed, Mrs Prado has already introduced it right now: beds are important in hotels, beds are not closed, they are available if they are needed, staff take mostly summer vacations, beds are operational and the novelty of this year is that between 15% and 20% of beds do not have staff. Now it's the fault of the beds they don't have personal. As your lordships see, every year a new invention by the Council, an asymmatic invention, an euphemistic invention, to tell us what happens is that the beds are closed because they don't cover the staff that has to work in hospitals. And closed, obviously, it's not like they're precincted -- I'm explaining it because it seems that sometimes this term has not been understood by the popular bench -- or they're not taking them to a warehouse either. Closed is precisely that you can't access these hospital units with income because Junta decides not to cover the holidays. The beds are closed; however, they are stopped peoning, which they also call -- because the euphemisms like a lot -- euphemistically "self-concertation." She defended four years ago an initiative which was approved and which asked for the opening of the day-to-day surgery and consultations — on an ordinary basis, not with peonadas — to reduce the waiting list; an initiative which the Union has never met, because, if not, in the meantime, it could not continue to transfer patients to the private sector. Not only do they close their beds, but they also close their appointments. There are consultations that have fewer staff, and in primary care — although the initiative actually talks about the specialist — consultations are closed. And the councilman now said that new modality, that new euphemism, which was also dealt with here. I don't know if he called it "interstitution," but he could have done it. What you mean is that the primary care facilities are not covered either, and that the workload of doctors, doctors, nursing staff, workers and public health workers is increased, while caring for their patients and their neighbors. And who pays the clippings finally? Children, children, people, older people. Because you know what's going on? That, if it hadn't been expected, it might be logical to consider whether there are services that can reduce their activity in the summer months. The problem is that there's still waiting, although today we still don't have the non-structural waiting lists, those that look like the PP don't like them now, but that, once again, we reiterate here that Mr. Feijóo was asking when he was opposed. I also requested in this legislation, in the framework of article 9, non-structural waiting lists, in December. And I'm still waiting for them even though the regulation requires that this information be provided within a month. But as the waiting lists go up, while they're still not covering those staff vacations, and people are waiting to do a CT scan, despite having complex, serious diseases, and while there's no pediatricians, the People's Party's Party's board increases year by year what goes on in private. Not only for that million euros that has just moved Mrs Prado, but about the paper budget that we saw in the last exercise, just from one year to another — that is from 2016 to 2017 — if they had already increased four million euros, this one more that we have just added. And, therefore, there is a falsehood: the PP repeats every time it doesn't increase, but every year it increases the games to the private. How many contracts could be made to reduce the waiting lists with those millions, with that money, which they spend on private? How many improvements in health centers? How many contracts to cover the holidays? They spend only 197 million euros in private every year, and 5 million more in primary care. How can there be no waiting list in public health? Do you see them closing their beds in private centers during the summer months? No, there's no need to reorder. And this year, last year, the Board of Auditors warned, too, that you do -- the Government of Galician Union -- continuous accounting changes, diversions of games, and that, in addition, management is weak because private games are increased each year. So we agree with that point of requesting information. We understand that the third refers to the sectoral table. And we propose a amendment related to the second point, because the part where we don't agree, or we don't understand exactly, is that where it's said to be covered by the staff depending on which beds are closed or not. Because we understand that we will have to fill those gaps in the waiting lists first, fill out this problem in the cuts in public health, reduce the splits in private, open the public, and then, when the waiting list is reduced, we'll see if it's necessary to delete, reduce or open fewer services in the summer or not. But right now, as long as we wait, as long as we have disabled services, as long as we have problems in primary with pediatricians, or wait for complementary tests, of course what we have to cover for the public. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u230	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, the first thing I want to say to you is that the interstitution existed in 2006, 2007 and 2008. I was a primary doctor. Looks like the People's Party invented it in 2012 or 2013, and that's not true. Well, Mr. Torrado, we're in front of the summer snake every summer. This reminds me of Freixenet's announcement of Freixenet's bubbles. There was no Christmas without Freixenet's announcement, and there will be no parliamentary summer without a motion or an inquiry about the closing of beds. [[Applause]] I, of course, will try not to talk about the Bipartite and not talk about figures from other autonomous communities, because it doesn't seem like it. We'd make a lot of arguments, but they don't like it. Mr. Torrado always refers to the health barometer. The health barometer has more than 250 pages, and it always talks about two. But, of course, it does not mention that Galicia is the community where one prefers much more public health than private health, and that it is above average in the assessment of primary care, emergencies and hospitalization; that it suspends public health in Galicia by 12.4% of citizens — half of them by 4 — who have the best expectations in relation to the system — only 2.6% says that health care in Galicia was worse than expected — that the waiting list is better than average, that hospital care in Galicia is good or very good — health barometer 2016 — in 94.7%, compared to the Spanish average of 85%, and that the rates of improvement in hospital care are much better than average. But, well, we always hear the same phrase. I must admit that since Mr. Torrado is a spokesman, we have improved a lot. He, at least, in the interpellation of the whole past, acknowledged that he was in a reasonable defense of a health system resource planning, as most of the systems do, not all of them, in summer times, because professionals have the right to their vacations, and they demand them mostly in this period. The amendments of En Marea and BNG seem to be correcting you, Mr. Torrado. I don't know if you're going to accept them or not, even if they completely deflect your speech from the full past, but you'll know. He also spoke of euphemisms. You are committed to closing beds, and the Council insists that they are disabled. The hospital beds remain exactly the same place, they are disenfranchised by the slightest need of them in the summer. First of all, because the rearrangements of chronic diseases are diminished. And secondly, because there's less surgery because the professionals are on vacation and they're hard to replace; there's no anesthetists to replace. I don't know if any Members of this House would let themselves operate without anesthetist. I, of course, wouldn't let myself operate without anesthetist. But no matter what, give him the same, he's worth everything to oppose. [[Laughter]] Not all socialists are of the same opinion. The Aragon Government Health Adviser — in this community ruling the Socialist Party with the support of Podemos — says in a media: "It is easy to find a dependent in the summer, but a doctor is impossible. It is very easy to find a dependent of El Corte Inglés at a time of decline, but to find a professional who can operate, a specialized nurse or a traumatologist is impossible. Even if we wanted to, we could not increase surgical activity during the summer months." Or the Andaluz Health Service itself recognizes a summer plan document of a hospital: "which results in a decrease in the number of surgical interventions due to health care leave, the impossibility of coverage because there are no optional staff to do so and the desire of patients not to intervene on those dates. That is why the needs of hospital beds — add the document— descend. " Mr. Torrado, in the interpellation, said, "Reducing waiting lists by taking advantage of the summer, for it is possible, as other systems do. Efficiency is planning correctly." I suppose he didn't mean Aragon, he didn't mean Andalusia, he didn't mean the Valencian Community. I'm going to give a figure, they close 3,200 beds, just like the opposition groups say. Where the People's Party governs they sin beds. Of course!, where other political forces govern, not: optimize resources in Asturias, reserve beds in Andalusia, etc. He also said Mr. Torrado in the plenary that it is much more pleasant and much more desirable to reduce services than to increase them. I think it's all the opposite. It's much easier and much easier to share improvements and biases, although there's no later than to pay them, than to adjust the cost to the needs. But the Greeks and the Greeks understood the situation and the necessary adjustment measures taken by the Government of the People's Party, so our group was majority in 2012 and it was back in 2016. I know they don't like it either. And that's also why more than half of the Greeks and Greeks think in CIS that the group they would choose to take their health care, or to manage their health, would be this half of the hemicycle. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, Sergas guarantees health care in summer and winter. We have to plan and adapt resources to needs, but also to the possibilities of replacing staff, and of course to do so efficiently. Last summer 87.9 % of beds were operated and 75% were used. In 2017 the councillor announced one more point, 88.9%. Look, Mr. Torrado, the socialists voted against, in the Courts of Castela-A Mancha, a non-law proposition that said: " Urges the Government to recognize the effort and professionalism that health professionals show daily in each and every one of the centers of the care network of our public health. Proceed to the immediate recruitment of medical, nursing, technical, auxiliary and zoning personnel necessary to not waste any assistance resources and to open all necessary beds in hospitals in the region. Implement appropriate actions and measures in order to achieve better organisation of assistance resources, as well as optimal planning of the various services." It's clear that being a government is one thing and being opposed is another. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u231	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u232	Thank you, Mr. President. If you like, Mr. Núñez, we'll make a deal. As I understand that what you just read presented the PP in Castile-A Mancha, I offer you that deal here. Ah! It's not good here, is it? Finally, there will be no parliamentary summer without closing beds. I, if I tell you the truth, Mr. Núñez, the most backward moment I was able to reach was 2008. It's true, there's no summer without closing beds, and you said it was grotesque. You can comment on your health spokesman in 2008. I'm saying it because, if there's no sign of closing beds, it's just like modernity has started... From the barometer, yes, you have a lot of pages. But well, you didn't tell me you were wrong. He's probably not. One of the three worst specialized health care in Spain. If you want to talk about everything the health barometer says. We're talking about everything. And of course, in a motion on hospital care, we also talk about facilities, we talk about communications, public transport, how you access hospitals. Man, we agree that it's important to talk every day about your thing, if not, we'll end up talking about putting names apart from hospitals. Anyway... The beds are still in the same place. Do you know what's going on? [[Applause]] The beds are still in the same place, but the building in Outes, of what the Education Counsellor was talking about before, is still in the same place, but it's not going to be used anymore. You are told that the building is disabled as well; it is disabled. You talk to me about other communities. I remember the President of the Union here saying, "In this Parliament of Galicia you speak of Galicia." But well, since you talked to me, you know what's going on with Aragon and Asturias, what did you quote me? They have a staff ratio that's much bigger than ours, and they can do better planning. They have 2.5 people in specialized care for 1,000 inhabitants, and we have 1.76. Before I say something that's wrong, and I'm going to correct it. I said we'd only overcome Ceuta. I lied. We're past Ceuta and Melilla, it's true, but no other community. You know what, besides? Since you always talk to me about Andalusia, I'm going to give you an argument you sure like. In Andalusia the votes say what you tell about Andalusia is not worth it. So, if it's good for you here, it's good for you there. [[Applause]] In any case, if the beds aren't closed, but... there's no wound, is there? [[Pause.]] Look, if there's any injuries, we're in summer and there's no staff to answer, eh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm not a doctor. I'm not a doctor. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] I suppose I can, if not, tell you to the seven health spokespersons in Spain who are not doctors. I'm saying if it seems to you I can't talk. But well, I suppose you should have a labelling company, because all he did was propose the name of a hospital. Anyway. [[Laughter]] Mr President, it was better to debate with you, who at least had statements on the subject. Anyway. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u233	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u234	Yes, I think I have reached a possible transaction agreement that I will confirm with the amendments, to those I thank — I'm sorry I hadn't done it before — their constructive contribution. I want to tell the People's Party that we're open to planning, because all governments do it, and because it's a subject where it would be very important to have a reasonable agreement between all of us. What we can't accept is that they make us assume that planning has to be done this way because yes, because you say it, because health is perfect, and that's right, because in other places it's done as well. If you -- and you, Mr. Núñez, read me a very interesting proposal -- let's do the same thing as elsewhere, let's not be the community that most beds close as a percentage, and let's not be the least personal ratio you have during the winter. If we want to compare ourselves, at least compare ourselves in the good one. Or even for reaching an agreement in the middle. Why do you always want to compare the bad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u235	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Let us make the deal. Must it be now? Just a minute for them to come to an agreement. [[Pause.]] Can you read us the transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u236	Yes. The resulting proposed text would be: Point one would stay the way it is. Point 2 would be left: "Contract in each EOXI, during the summer season, the staff needed from the recruitment lists, so that vacation discounts are covered in the same centres, services and categories in a percentage equal to the percentage of beds that are necessarily not enabled, ensuring that no patient leads to private health while available and likely to be used in public centers." Point 3 would be left: "Conforming a hospital care assessment table in the summer, in which staff union representatives — that is the change — are preparing a report of conclusions to be used the following years." Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u237	Thank you, let him reach the services of the House, if he's so kind. We therefore vote the motions. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas. We vote. [[Mr. Lake Peñas asks for the floor.]] What happened, Mr. Lago?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u238	The Work Council, we accept point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u239	Then ask for a point vote. Separate point number 4. We must repeat the vote. Let's start again. Let us first vote on point 4. We vote. Vote of point 4 of the G.P. Motion. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point 4 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u240	Let us vote on the remaining points of this motion, 1, 2 and 3. We vote. Vote of points 1, 2 and 3 of the G.P. Motion. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34 votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u241	We are now voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. The transaction was read. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to hospital care during the summer months. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u242	We move on to the point of non-law proposals. As all Members know, the first, which was from the En Marea Parliamentary Group, has been withdrawn. We are now debating the proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the control and follow-up of the forest fires in Galicia, as well as the axillization of the judgments on this cause
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u243	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u244	Mr Quiroga has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u245	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Paraphrasing Mr. Núñez Centeno, we now go with the Freixenet of the rural world, because it seems to play. [[Laughter]] And I hope we don't have to drink it, and I hope it rains a few drops every week at least so we don't have to talk about it. [[Applause]] But as sometimes happens, we'll try to be cautious. A week ago we presented this initiative in committee, and we bring it back here to plenary. And we bring it to plenary because the People's Party voted against this simple, sensible, very specific proposal, and we'd like it to be approved. We don't understand why the vote is against, so let's face it. And we don't want to believe that PP doesn't want to improve the fire control system. So, Mr. Lago, don't lose your illusion, you have to beat up like in the cold iron and someday it will be. In this initiative — because it is a very serious issue — we are dealing with one of the problems this country has, and one of its major problems: fire. And we do it from a very specific, specific perspective: the fires deliberately intended; not another subject, specifically that one. In front of the fire, we have a system of extinction, the famous Pladiga, which has been propagating through the media, by the way, long before it reached the parliamentary groups, which seemed to us a gesture of almost parliamentary and institutional contempt, but is around. And this Pladiga, this Galician Firefighting Plan, which moves around 100 million every year — and if we complete it with other preventive measures, go to 173 — gives an idea of the budgetary effort and the transcendence of the problem we are dealing with. The current system we have — as we have spoken and discussed many times — is decisive if the atmospheric conditions are favourable and fire activity is low. Now, if atmospheric conditions are not favorable, or, better said, unfavorable and fire-related activity is high, the system — admit it all over the world — can make water and even collapse, as it has done in some of the vacancies of the last thirty years. We are aware that there are many causes that compete in the problem of fire, and they all have a great impact. There are a number of structural factors which determine the problem, and which are not the object of this initiative, but which is not too much to comment on. The growing abandonment of large parts of the country leads to uncontrolled growth of the forest, the forest and the forest, which extend without an apparent end. And they do it, in addition, without any planning, belling their widths. Reduction in agricultural activity is another serious problem, not only from a productive, labour, economic, etc. point of view. The cultivated and meadows, which elsewhere were a brake factor to the fires, constituting strips without trees or with little trees, today overcomes reduced and invaded by weeds, and no longer formed those large protective spaces that were isolated, or sought, or were, or were circumscribed the fire in the mountain, and except for some vacancy, there were, strictly located in the mountain, and their danger was much less. But its disappearance has also resulted in a new generation of fires and of great impact, not only by the abandonment of agricultural activity, but also by the need to talk — and we have repeated it on numerous occasions — about the uncontrollability of the administration, because there are thousands of hectares previously devoted to agriculture and livestock that are now with forestry plantations, particularly pine trees, including eucalyptals. That's a reality that we can't quantify, even though we specifically ask in writing and orally, in committee, and we haven't been answered, but reality anyone can check it out, there's. The unstoppable depopulation and aging of the population in the rural area helps this space to be neglected and out of control, and although the law is clear as to the cleaning of road margins and the execution of competitions as well, in the cleaning of the contours of places — which also have a very clear legislation — the reality is that the competition is transferred to the municipalities, and this competition ends up being a heavy burden on many of these municipalities, namely the smaller ones or those with a smaller structure, to deal with this circumstance. And even the property that surrounds many of these places ends up being a labyrinth of difficult clarification, because the owners are no longer or do not know where to search, with which the problem is doubled, the problem becomes highly complex, and except for some positive experiences we have here right next to the capital, where in agreement with the neighbors they clean up and clarify the nuclei, most of the country remains with the bumps, subbosques and slaughterhouses belling to their broads. The country, on the other hand, follows a forest plan that organizes, regulates and plans forest masses according to productive, environmental and landscape criteria, a consistent forest plan that collects needs and reflects the project of the sustainable country. And it's not worth sticking to the guidelines, because the guidelines, if they've been consensual, ended in 2015 and are almost two years away where the sector hasn't met again to question or to aquilate the details of this new forest plan so important to this country. So there are many aspects to analyze, propose and improve, and on this initiative we want to focus on controlling and monitoring the intentional fires of a voluntary nature, and their causes: the incendiaries. We don't intend to enter into the structural aspect of a problem as serious as this, and even though the intended fires of an involuntary character, fruit of various negligence, such as poorly managed burns, trails, etc., are also of great importance, they will be the most worrisome and those that focus on our particular concern and this specific initiative. If about 80% of Galician fires are intended — and this supports the various sources — we think it is worth putting some means, taking some initiative to lower this percentage and not assume it as a divine punishment, because it is not. If in the Pladigo high-activity parishes went from 67 to 73, the phenomenon of arson concentration is not reduced; on the contrary, it increases. If, between 2011 and 2016, 8 parishes in Galicia have recorded 600 fires, with an average of 50 to 100 each of the parishes, it is data that clearly reflects the problem of the intended fires. If, at the surface level, a single parish in the province of Ourense has recorded the fire-throwing of 3,962 hectares, which is equivalent to about 1,000 hectares per year, and if this one adds another 3 parishes over 2,000 hectares per fire-throwing, we have only four Greek parishes burned 12,000 hectares in the last decade, five years, leaving each of these parishes over 2,000 hectares. So at the surface level, the problem of concentration of fires, and therefore of intentionality, comes to the fore, and if we add to this another 16 parishes of high activity -- and so they appear conceptualized -- would burn down by their virulence, with 19,000 hectares devastated, then we'll have an idea of the phenomenon of concentration of fires and the phenomenon of volunteer fires, which is going on foot. And that's what this initiative is about, and that needs a specific answer that goes or analyzes the problem from different angles and prisms. For these and many other reasons, we understand that, regardless of structural actions, which are fundamental but which do not touch this initiative, prevention and extinction, and, in addition to that, the phenomenon of voluntary fire also needs initiatives that focus on it, that put at the centre of the target this variable as an important phenomenon to be cut short. Thus, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia presents the following non-legislative proposal, divided into two paragraphs: one for the competences of the Greek Government and the other, where there are no powers or where the Union has no powers, to transfer them to whom it has, which is the Central Government, the Government of the State. In the first case, the powers of the Government of Greece: to provide more means for the self-control and follow-up bodies of the fires. Second, carry out an awareness campaign at the schools. Asked questions well, and let's hope this time that they won't be refused. And in paragraph B, for the powers of the State, first of all, the Government of Greece is urged to address the Government of the State so that, in coordination with the Ministry of the Interior, control in sensitive or large-scale areas of repeated incidence of fires is increased. And secondly, that you give more means to Justice, in order to speed up the trials of fires, because it's not to receive that few people, the few neighbors and neighbors who are caught in fragrances are going on for months, years, without Justice taking letters in the matter; therefore, the exemplary effect in these cases is fundamental. Nothing else, I'm done. It's quite simple: the only thing that's required are more means, awareness-raising campaign and more control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u246	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I, who are good lukewarm, will follow Mr. Quiroga's advice and put a hand on the mesh, — I say — on the vine. If the number of high-activity parishes doesn't relent and increase considerably, something we're doing is wrong, and that's what we want to talk about. The intent of a large part of the fires is undeniable, as it is also undeniable that the mountain situation in most of these areas where it usually burns shows a chaotic situation and a lack of management and remarkable and notorious seriousness. The Pladiga speaks of high-risk areas and records a repeated incidence of fires that are appreciated as caused by the opportune hours, by strategic points and by the coincidences in weather conditions favourable to their expansion. But reducing or putting the blame on the annual fire vacancies by reducing their problem to a purely police aspect, when we all know it's a structural problem that presents multiple and intertwined causes, it's trivializing the matter. Socially you don't appreciate a real seriousness about the use of the mountain, there's not yet a social culture on the mountain, and if you're the mountain dominated by intensive exploitation, the basis of pyrophytes, in anarchic and transgressive way. For the BNG, the mountain is not a space in the territory that can serve the economic interests of a few with the money of all. Our mountain must be at the service of the people of present and future, of people, not of certain business groups, who, in addition to encouraging, with the aquiescence of the Government, the intensive cultivation of pyrophites of low economic profitability, do so in such anarchic way and way that results in a careless lot, disagrees with the nature of the soil, climate and landscape, and above all from a sustainable and continuous yield, far from wealth, light years ago from the present penury. Because in that chaos and global disinterest is where the criminals of the fire and those who favor burning are thrown into their broads. There is no burning, no, nor do there are common incendiaries where the mountain is valued as a social asset cooperating with the economic and population stability of the rural, in those territories where the strips of protection, respect for agricultural lands, minimal management and forestry treatments are made socially valued, together with compliance with legal standards, which today are minimal — and yet are not observed —. Well, where the law is met, or, what is the same, where the mountain is taken seriously, it's hard for it to burn. Examples we have. Because we're talking about chasing down the criminals who make firearms to take petty neighbors revenge, small businesses, or they're showing anti-social attitudes or mental degenerations, but we don't criminalize the lack of functions, that look elsewhere as to basic protective prevention measures. That's why we include as an amendment the need for Adif, AP-9, highways, general roads, in short, infrastructures and communication pathways, to maintain a perfect state of preventive review, and you have the executive government to enforce the law. We will have to return, as a first measure, the top hectares of eucalyptus and other pyrophytes, marked by 2032, and which are at this point more than duplicated. We'll have to put an end to the cut-off of native oak trees and shrubs, at least until they get back properly. Only since the seriousness shared in the prevention measures, in the management of the territory and in the collective responsibility of a multifunctional, profitable, diverse and responsible for the necessary sustainability, can we not only shorten this plague of fires, but we will diminish them to make them something anecdotal, strong and unrepresentative. It's not a dream. As for the research work on the causes of the fire, the incendiaries, a large part of them, as has already been said, act by small local revenges and struggles on aspects that greater police pressure will not solve. So, without denying the need for this, we believe that the shots should be directed to the implementation of serious investigations of local motives and to take measures that provide solutions to these tensions in a way that you can, to minimize or remedy them. To focus on corrective measures, with pedagogy, with left hand — or right hand, if they bother them on the left — is for us, for the BNG, priority, because politics too is that — I would say that it should be basically that —: positive measures that go to the heart of the problems and to the heart of the people and put definitive solutions. Or isn't it right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u248	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u249	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today, Galicia presents a sometimes complicated orography for the work of extinction, a very dispersed population, a growing abandonment of rural areas, a nearly monoculture forest of pines and eucalyptus trees and an entrenched tradition of fire use as a tool for both agriculture and forestry. The Director General of Forest Management said a few days ago: "If the law is fulfilled, it would be difficult to see a case like Portugal in Galicia." The statement would be reassuring if it hadn't been because in Galicia the laws related to the mountain, the environment and the management of the territory rarely comply with them. And because in the particular case of the Forest Fires Act you, with the atomization of the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires, or with the working conditions of many workers and workers who only work three months a year, so they can't do prevention work, they're guilty of the great dimension of forest fires in our community. According to the 2017 Pladiga — which they presented in the last commission, ill- and never before, a cut and grab of 300 pages showing the interest that Galician Union has in our mountain — there are the forest fire investigation brigades, trained by forest research experts on the cause of fires, and also the Police Coordination Committee on Fires, which is the coordinating body for research and police deterrence in the fight against forest fires. Research, in its police and forestry facets, in forest fires will be carried out in the analysis of the periods of danger, the establishment, coverage and study of the areas of special surveillance, the investigation of the greatest number of fires and the follow-up of subsequent use of the burned areas, the study and follow-up of parishes that carry out high incendiary activity, increase the number of arrests of suspected incendiary areas. It is also planned in this Pladiga for the empowerment of forest fire research brigades in the forest districts, so that there are two or three agents assigned to the so-called brigades in each district. The main role of these agents will be the investigation of forest fires within the territorial area of their district, in coordination with bodies and security forces; and they will also be responsible for ensuring compliance with the Forest Fires Act. The objectives are to increase the location of suspects, arrest of suspected incendiary, intensify collaboration with security forces and bodies, by promoting the collaboration channels through the Fire Police Coordination Committee, with a view to increasing the location of suspects and their detention. Research brigades, according to the Pladiga, will be adequately equipped with the material means necessary to carry out this mission, putting them within the monitoring device, irrespective of the necessary requirements, in the work of extinction. Research will be based on the analysis of the physical evidence of human activities and the collection and analysis of information and witnesses. The level of coordination of these brigades with security forces and bodies will be maintained to have a single investigation report that will be sent to the Prosecutor's Office if there are suspects. In order to do a good research, it requires staff dedicated to this work, top priority will be given to research work when integrating agents into forest district shifts. All I've just recited, read, even though it's not completed by all the agents involved in that Forest Council, which also analyze the fires, is a statement of very good intentions if it had been carried out. The problem is that right now the People's Party is not fulfilling its own Pladiga. In Marea you will vote in favour of giving more means to the self-government bodies responsible for the control and follow-up of the fires, because we let it be reflected in the Decalogue that we presented last June 30th. For this very reason In Marea will vote in favour of campaigning—of course yes!—in educational centres, and we hope to see what the People's Party will do. If the People's Party votes against this non-law proposition, arguing that it is already doing so, mind; mind; because right now even the forest fire brigades have no means, neither material nor economic nor human. If the People's Party votes in favour of this non-law proposal, as we believe it should do, let it do it not as a declaration of good intentions, but by providing human and material resources for this service, which today is precarious if it does not investigate almost any fire of the many that occur daily in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u250	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balseiros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The forest fire investigation brigades, in coordination with the state's security forces and bodies, are responsible for carrying out research work in order to identify the causes of forest fires and, if necessary, find the alleged perpetrators of the start of the fire. In this sense, from the analysis of the causality of forest fires, we can conclude that most of the forest fires in Galicia are intended. So it's drawn up in a report that analyzes the fires between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2015, and that highlights the following points. Intentionality. Most of the forest fires in Galicia are intentional, as shown by the statistical data of the last decade and are also corroborated by the figures this year. In the last ten years, the intended fires represent about 75%, i.e. 3 out of every 4 fires are intended. It should also be noted that the highest percentage of intent occurs in the timeframe between 21 and 7 hours; in particular, during the fire campaign of the last ten years or 85.30 % of the fires produced in this timetable are intended. If we analyze the fires that originate from two or more fires, we see that over the years, more than 9% of the fires are multifocused, which demonstrates, in addition to intentionality, a clear intention of hindering their extinction and causing greater damage. Concentration of fires. Today we also know other data that reinforces us with the idea of the intentional fires. In the commission Mr Quiroga did not mention it, today in part himself, but he forgot a given to Mr Quiroga: 40 municipalities in Galicia add up to half of the hectares burned in our community and eight Greek parishes — today if you say so — accumulate more than 600 forest fires in the last five years. I think this data speaks for itself. That's why high-activity burning parishes have been increased, because they record more than 86% intentionality in the last ten years, while the average of Galicia is 75.17%. State comparison. Galicia concentrates the largest number of intended fires. In the period 2001 to 2010, last quantified by the Ministry of Agriculture with comparative data by communities, Galicia accumulated up to 63% of the intended. This intent in Galicia is historically much higher than the average of Spain: 81.22%, compared to 54.73%, in the aforementioned decade 2001-2010. Research. In 2016, with data accounted for until 31 August, the State security forces and bodies — Civil Guard and Autonomic Police — investigated in Galicia a total of 68 people by the alleged authorship of 114 forest fires. It's true that those investigated for negligence or accidents are more than intended fires, since it's easier to identify the first ones. In neglect or accidents the main reasons are burn escapes, the use of machinery or the use of pyrotechnic devices. On the other hand, he draws attention that, by analyzing the percentage of fires investigated by groups of causes, the most common is the intentional fire, with more than 62%, both in the investigations of the Civil Guard and the Autonomic Police. And as for 2017, there are a total of 50 people who have been arrested or investigated as alleged forest fires perpetrators in the context of the fire campaign. Awareness campaigns. As regards the dissemination and awareness of the period of fire in the mountains, the Council is carrying out several actions. On the one hand, the immediate and usual advertising campaign in the audiovisual and written media, which comes to strengthen the warning messages in the mountains during the high-risk season; and on the other hand, as it is collected in the Pladiga, the Council carries out various actions to reduce the risk of forest fire, such as making it known, through leaflets, tripticals, posters, the danger of the misuse of the fire, as well as the 085 telephones, fires, and 112 emergencies from Galician Union. To also disseminate the danger of the negligent use of fire, promote and encourage citizen collaboration, carry out educational and educational activities, especially in school and rural areas, as they have already occurred in 2016 through the provision of more than 262 talks and with the presence of more than 13,100 students, continuing at the same pace in 2017. With regard to requiring the Government of the State to provide more means, it must be pointed out that, in the area of crimes against the environment and fires, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Community of Galicia has tax offices specializing in the area ahead. Precisely the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Galicia gave a general instruction directed to the prosecutors of the territorial prosecutors of Galicia in order to achieve greater effectiveness in the conduct of the prosecutors in this matter, both in the preventive and repressive plans. Thus, in all provincial departments, the environmental prosecutor is specifically responsible for coordinating the performance of the public prosecutor's office in relation to forest fires. It is necessary to indicate that 451 judicial proceedings were initiated by 2015 as a result of forest fires, with a special impact in the province of Ourense. Mr. Quiroga, hit in cold iron. There is no worse deal than that of the wood itself — I would say — and I have already told you in the commission that you hit in the cold iron, bringing again and again the same initiatives, because you were right Mr. Lago, who doesn't care, doesn't give anything, doesn't matter what you explain to them, doesn't matter what we give them data, it doesn't matter what we talk about with official documents — that, by the way, where there are papers shut down beards — it doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u253	...because in some cases giving that data and talking with documents is the same as preaching in the desert, and preaching in the desert is a lost sermon, or, what is really, preach to me, friar, that one ear comes in and another one comes out. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u254	Thank you, Mr. Basketballs. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u255	Well, it seems he won't be able to be, Mr. Balsairos; well, man, good; good. Thank you to the BNG Group and the En Marea Group. We've already talked about a little bit of a commission that our goal was to touch this particular aspect, and in particular, and bring it in such a clear and clear way that neither with these, nor with those going on. Obviously, we agree that the structural factors are those which determine this problem. This exponential expansive proliferation of pyrophytic species or monoculture, the lack of appreciation of leafy species, ultimately, the lack of adequate planning to the needs and reality of the forest-mass country are at the bottom of the problem and are really the substantial elements. That is why from the beginning we were talking about and nudging in particular that our initiative and our proposal wanted to focus on this very important aspect, we could almost say secondary, in view of the structural elements that were falling apart and which even in the initiative are also being targeted. With regard to the objective of the People's Party, Mr. Balsairos, what do you want me to tell you? If you don't even put on the initiative concrete data that could compromise budget or measures that could have been able to impose on you with the Government of Madrid, but go to the simplest, because not with those. So you are accepting the phenomenon of concentration of fires and accepting the phenomenon of focus in certain parishes, and this is due to a number of circumstances irrespective of the structure, and these others that are being added, and which are, let's say, the ones that are about to be set on fire. And somehow we also wanted to help the Government, because you see, on July 10th, that is, yesterday, there is a gentleman called Fernández Couto — who I think you all know because he also comes to the 7th Commission and I think he's the Chief Executive Officer of Forest Management — who, in an interview at Ideal Gallego, says textually — because he's in the middle of it — to the journalist's questions that he says, "But, hey!, this about the fires he's in charge of, what's going on with this?" "We are fighting a very high criminal activity and shooting in extreme conditions," said the forest management officer. " So we betrayed this to see if we helped the government because they're declaring this. Man! which is a simple thing, which is nothing complicated, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] We don't want anything but to help them do things right. We haven't come here with a negative or destructive vision, or much less; we see: we welcome what the Director General himself says. Nothing else. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u256	Thank you. I understand that you do not accept the amendment to the Block. I'm sorry, I just didn't understand... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u257	We'll talk to see if we can trade.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-11-DSPG035.u258	All right, all right. Thank you. So we'll suspend the full till tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
