ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u1	Good morning. We will restart the session with the seventh item on the agenda, from questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures planned by the Galician Council to curb eucalyptization by launching a new policy for the Galician Mount
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u2	Mrs. Pontón, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijó, today I want to begin by congratulating you. You have the merit of having rewriting the famous song He disappeared from Manu Chao, because that's how you have Galicia: disappeared in state budgets, disappeared in the debate on the AVE, disappeared in the debate of the financing or disappeared in that AP-9 ghost commission. And you know why? Because to that slogan "Galicia first," it happens, as Bob Dylan says in his song, which is blowing in the wind. Today, I have no doubt that you don't paint anything in Madrid. And since he's not able to defend Galician interests in the state, we hope that he can at least defend Galician in Galicia. So let's ask you a question that has to do with something that basically depends on you: put in place a new forest policy. And why do we ask for it? Because your model is an economic, environmental and social ruin to this country. This model only has a great beneficiary, Ence; better said, Ence and his six fellow People's Party, who end up sitting on the Board of Directors of this company in a case of manual -- we could say -- of rotating doors. But allow me to give you some information about the situation that we have today. The eucalyptus plantation, Mr. Feijóo, is absolutely uncontrolled; they are planting more eucalyptus in Galicia than in Australia. We now have 230,000 hectares more of eucalyptus than were planned in the Galician Union Forest Plan by 2032. Forest repopulations in the state were mainly made with species proper to the place where they were planted; in Galicia, they were established with subsidies from the Union, with foreign species. The result is that we have a monoculture of eucalyptus and pine that occupies 60% of the tree masses, just three times the average state. And finally, every year they cut 8.2 million cubic metres of wood and only 300,000 are quality woods from our native species. This expansive eucalyptus fever has a direct impact on one of the big environmental problems this country has, such as forest fires, fires that burn thousands of hectares every year and also hundreds of millions of euros; a problem that will go beyond climate change, and I have to tell you that your government is not in line with the challenge we have ahead. You know perfectly well that your forest model has failed, that it leaves us a Galician that has a serious problem, because a part of the territory is abandoned, that there is an uncontrolled eucalyptus that is taking down prices and that is going to be worse in the future and that we have a lot of wealth that is not taking advantage of this failed and expired model. So I ask you if you have any serious measures to stop the eucalyptization of our country and to put in place a new forest model for Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I think if you want to talk about missing people, I'll tell you that the BNG of the General Courts is missing and the BNG of all the Greek cities is missing; the BNG is missing in most democratic institutions. [[Murmurs.]] Now, if it's okay with you, you're still on this side of the road. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What I do think is good about your intervention, Your Honor, is that now you also focus on plurilingualism. Without a doubt, it's a good news that BNG speaks English in Parliament. That, no doubt, Your Honor, is a sign of the new BNG. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, a few days ago we had a meeting with families who live in forest wealth, who work in the mountains, who carry the money to the house of that industry — where they work, by the way, 70,000 Greeks — and were concerned about whether or not we were going to decrease the eucalyptus planting capabilities in Galicia. You now tell us that what we're doing is the opposite, greatly amplifying the eucalyptus planting capabilities. Look, we always move, or we try to move, in rational postures, in balanced postures. And I think it's fair to acknowledge that there's a proliferation of eucalyptus in certain areas that we think is excessive. Well, it's true, Your Honor, that it's false the data you give of acres, but I'm used to it. He says that since we arrived we have increased the hectares of eucalyptus plantation in 230,000. Well, the total of eucalyptus plantation hectares in Galicia are around 280,000. So little could we increase and should have some common sense with the data it gives. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Your Honor, I'm worried about the Greeks, the 80,000 mountain owners in Galicia who in 2015 cut, by the way, 14% more wood; 14% more because they had to tackle the problems of the economic crisis. I'm concerned that 12 percent of the Galician families who have annual incomes for wood cutting follow them. I'm worried about the 70,000 jobs in the wood industry. I'm worried about 3,000 timber companies that charge more than 2,000 million euros and export more than 770 million euros. Within the wood sector, the eucalyptus is part of that sector. The first short eucalyptus is entering the own Greek families around 150 million euros a year. So, Your Honor, what we're going to do is what you didn't do: to have forest policy. First, because we passed the only mountain law in Galicia in 2012; second, because we developed it by two decrees, regulations, of the year 2014. And that law says that we have to increase the useful agricultural surface, that we have to limit the restockings, that we have to prohibit the replanting of the Eucalyptus genus in areas of trees planted with native species, that we have to try to plant more chestnuts, more deer and more oaks... Finally, Your Honor, what our forest policy says — which you have not had — is, first, to make a forest plan, and, in that forest plan, to say in which areas the eucalyptus plantation is not viable and in which areas you cannot continue to extend the eucalyptus plantation. Secondly, Your Honor, create an agency for the forest industry in Galicia so that the 70,000 workers in the forest industry have a true future. Your Honor, if you want to talk about fires, we can talk about fires, but unfortunately, I think BNG, to talk about forest fires, is not believed in this Parliament. Your Honor, we have instruments, we have proposals and we have policies: a forest plan that we are going to try to align with the municipalities and the sector and an agency of the forest industry that we are going to try to work this first half of this year 2017. I'm sure, Your Honor, that you in the reply could tell me something that BNG had done for the four years that were responsible for the mountain in Galicia. In addition to the burned acres, I'd like to know what your forest policy is. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u7	Look, Mr Feijóo, what the Greeks and the Greeks see is that the missing are the 12 MPs who instead of defending Galicia are defending the sheep of the People's Party; or who is missing because you are the president of the Galician Union, who has not once raised your voice in recent years in the face of the continued state's ills with this country. [[Applause]] He's missing, Mr Núñez Feijóo. And look, for the Galician Nationalist Block this is a matter of country, and what we're not going to fall into is short-sightedness in which you just fell. Look, I've already told you that you won't see me with a manger and Spanish shoes making opposition to the Government in the midst of an incendiary attack. And if you really believe, Mr. Feijóo, that forest policy is reduced to a war of numbers to see that the government has been burned down, the only thing that proves is that you don't have time to be president of the Galician Union, because it seems to be defending the incendiaries, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, we propose that we agree on a new plan for managing uses of our mountain that takes advantage of the potential, wealth and opportunities that exist. This for us is an important agreement, a country agreement, which has to include some basic points for Galicia to actually catch the train and sit in the wave of what other countries are doing, because you come here as a great defender of the eucalyptus, and I ask you: Are the rest of Europe stupid when they bet on quality woods?, don't you really know?, or are you in Galicia actually hypothecizing the future of a single sector and exclusively for being served by the Ence? Look, we propose a country agreement with four very specific points: first, a moratorium to curb the expansion of the eucalyptus, not to occupy more hectares of our soil with eucalyptus and to stop the eucalyptus nitens, because we have quite clear that stopping the uncontrolled eucalyptus is key to putting in place a new forest policy. Secondly, a real plan for the wood produced in our country to become Galicia and not just to make boards or paper folder. There's a lot of opportunities we're missing, and you're not supporting a strategic sector, as the furniture sector could be. Third, tax benefits and reforestation aids, but with native species. And finally, a plan that takes advantage of the multifunctional value of our mountain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u9	...because, look, Galicia, Mr Núñez Feijóo, you can't go on mortgaged...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u10	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u11	... by the designs of Cence, and Galicia cannot continue to lose unique opportunities and exclusively by the blindness of its government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u13	Thank you very much, Your Honor. How can the people always be confused, Mrs. Pontón? How can the people give 12 Members to the Galician People's Party and BNG none? Isn't the Greek people a cult? Doesn't the Greek people have any criteria? Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to these 12 Members in Madrid, we are going to have a budget for all of Spain; therefore also for Galicia. I know BNG would rather not have been budgeted, but that's a way of understanding the policy that we don't share. Your Honor, when you now remind me of BNG's firefighting policies and tell me I'm defending the incendiaries, that is, of course, to make a country, Your Honor. We'll all remember as some BNG leader said that in that fire strike, when you were at the council, the incendiaries were the mayors of the PP. They haven't apologized yet, Your Honor. So to talk about BNG's forest policy, I think we need to talk to a little bit of criteria. And I repeat that for four years nothing has been done in the forest field, zero: Forest plan, zero; Mountain law, zero; regulations in the forest field, zero. Your Honor, what are you accusing us of approving a forest plan and making an agency for the Welsh forestry industry? Are we supposed to say that, indeed, we have to control the uncontrolled expansion of eucalyptus in certain areas and places in Galicia? Do we just need to open more dossiers by eucalyptus plantation during the years of our government than during the two-party government years with BNG in the Council? Do you accuse us, Your Honor, of having more leafy, in the Galician Forest Inventory, than ever since there was an inventory? Do you accuse us, Your Honor, of having twice as thick as the double of eucalyptus? Charge us, Your Honor, that the 70,000 jobs... yes, yes. [[Interruptions.]] If they don't even consult... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u15	...the Forest Inventory is very difficult to talk about. But the forest plan is about to see, and between pines and leafy, Your Honor, we have the triple that of Eucalyptus, but, of course, when the nationalist paradigm falls, the data fall and it doesn't matter the reality. Look, Mrs. Pontón, we have wood policy, yes, 70,000 jobs, we have wood policy, yes, there are 12% of Galician families who have income from wood. What do we have to do, Your Honor? Control the planting of eucalyptuses, favor the planting of natives — coal, deer and fruit growers —, make laws as we did in the mountains, regulate it as we did in both regulations and make an industrial agency of wood. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because the furniture sector, the contract sector — you should review the data — is exporting and has more muscle than ever, and because the wood sector in Galicia can only grow. We have to certify the wood, we have to make certified wood to export, we have to order the wood. And if you want to order the mountain, welcome with your claims to the Forest Plan, but criticising a government for presenting a forest plan and for working in the wood industry is simply criticizing Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leceiaga, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the date foreseen by the Government of Galicia for the availability of a wide offer of accessible industrial soil and well communicated in the south of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u17	Mr. Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u18	Good morning. I want, first of all, to greet the neighbours of Salvaterra and the Snows that accompany us today. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, Plisán's project began at Galicia 17 years ago. It was a logistics platform of 4 million square meters, supporting the port of Vigo, which worked intermodally and should feed industrial growth in southern Galicia. It was good news. And the truth is that until 2002 it was a reasonable move: the agreement was made with the municipalities concerned, the supra-municipal sectoral project, the environmental impact statement... it was working reasonably. Then he entered a phase of paralysis; businessmen in February 2005 criticized delays, paralysis, and that expropriations were stagnant. The government of Emilio Pérez Touriño pushes the project, ends the expropriation phase, prepares the land and bids that project. And from 2009, what's going on? Between the judicial and administrative disputes, there were two years, and there are six, and in those six years there were announcements, many announcements, but there were few realities. There was a slow, too slow march. Even in your election program you announced, in the second half of 2016, that by this year 2017 there would already be companies installed on this platform. The truth is that only in 2015 do urbanization works begin, and only in 2017 is EDAR bids, but important infrastructures remain to be tendered. The summary could be, as he recently made a medium, to say: Plisán to slow down and Portugal gets to sixth. Today we have a new two-year horizon for the installation of the first companies; it's no longer 2017, it's 2019. A success! In the best case, twenty years later, a small polygon of only 100,000 square meters, at an exorbitant cost, rounding the 150 million euros, eventually including the accesses and without intermodality yet—where is the station of commodities?, where is the reform of the line with Vigo?—, at non-competitive prices with Portugal. There are polygons less than a kilometre that have much cheaper costs for companies, without direct connection to the Meseta and without the expropriation payments being made completely. And as Portugal gets straight, the Galician Union has sedated. Portugal did well, it was his duty, he had to do it, and the truth is, if within the legal limits he is willing to capture many companies, he is doing his job. The problem is not what Portugal does, the problem is what we stop doing. This was good as long as we did our homework. And the Galician Board didn't do it, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. You know how I am that expansion prepares itself during recessions, and in the last recession you've been looking elsewhere. Today is the moment of investment, there's money circulating, there's needs to invest, there's important projects looking for location, but the availability of industrial, cheap and quality soil in southern Galicia is still a pending subject. We're getting late, bad and crawling, and we can find that when Plisán is on the move, the growth is located on the other side of the Mine, only 300 meters south of this infrastructure. That's just your responsibility. Mr President, are you satisfied with the management of the wide supply of quality industrial soil that southern Galicia needs?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u19	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, you've chosen the week to ask questions about selling industrial soil. In fact, last week a textile group, the largest in Europe, bought 26 plots, 218,000 square meters in a polygon in the province of Coruña. And last week, a Vigilant company, Ecoforest, bought 10 plots in a polygon, specifically the port of Molle, in Nigeria. These are two clear examples, Your Honor, that economic recovery is activating the sale of industrial soil. But I think that by the time you greet the neighbors of Salvaterra and the Snows, which I too do, and the students of the Torrrente Ballester College, of Pontevedra, it's good that they know how we found the soil policies in 2009. Because of course, you say things, but you don't say that the four public companies Xestur were broken, that doesn't say that; that when we arrived at the Government we owed 100 million euros — 100 million euros — to individuals and to the suppliers of the Geestur, that doesn't say; that when we arrived at the Government we had 180 million euros of bank debt with the four Xestur, that doesn't say; that when we arrived at the Government there were 900 million euros — 900 million euros — of execution and purchase commitments, that doesn't say, Mr. Leicega. Do you know what we had to do? Pay, pay the 100 million euros to the individuals we owed the ground, pay 180 million euros to the banks and rethink the bank debt. Your Honor, what we did was to pay, pay 200 million euros of the worst industrial land policy of the Bipartite. That's why, Mr. Leicega, I'm surprised you don't do that analysis and introduction. Why did all the public companies of broken industrial soil leave us? Do you know what we've done, Your Honor? From four public companies, to one, from four managers to one; from all templates, to one single template. And I'm very grateful to you for thinking about Plisán. Mr. Leicega, I understand that the PSOE did not carry industrial soil policy; it was once again one of the major assets of nationalist policy in Galicia: to break down industrial soil and public enterprises. But finally, Plisán. Look, Plisán's land movement was executed by the Harbour Authority of Vigo without the Bipartite's board putting in a euro. The Galician Union was no longer the owner of Plisán. You know why? Because she sold it to Xestur to get money and spend it at the Galego Institute of Living and Solo. They solved the condominium; there was no longer a condominium between the Free Zone and the Vigo Port and the Galician Union. They had given up the condominium, and what's more serious, were the Salvaterra and the Snows and negotiated with the neighbors a justification that had to be later paid the Free Zone and the Port of Vigo, and not the Board of Galicia; that is, they have deceived everyone. Mr. Leicega, do you know what we did? Pay; as always, pay. We pay money to the neighbors, now in July we pay another money and in December we pay all the money. I mean, pay. Do you know what we've done, Your Honor? He says he's not attached to the Meseta. We made a bus connecting Plisán to the Meseta — 25 million euros that bus — and now it turns out that we are only late in Plisán. But, Mr. Leicega, if we had to lift the breakdown of all public industrial soil companies in Galicia broken by you in the Government! And now we have 100,000 square meters -- the first 100,000 square meters -- for sale, and it turns out we're building the debugger, building the positifier and the connecting vial, and you say we're going to charge don't know what. No, sir, we're going to charge 0.75 square meter/ year to any company that wants to install there through a right of surface...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u22	...0,75 euros square meter per year. Your Honor, we have the cheapest industrial soil policy for the last fifteen years in Galicia; that is, in Galicia today, buying a meter of industrial soil is cheaper than in the last fifteen years. We'll keep talking about industrial soil, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u24	Yes, I'd be surprised if his reply didn't blame him for everything in the years when an alternative government of the People's Party worked. We know it is. The truth is, by reviewing the hemerotheque, the impression that a draft is completely different: problems with the Harbour Authority so that the Ministry of Development had made at the time when the People's Party was ruling a necessary report that delayed the matter for months; judicial problems that forced their decisions to be reversed, and this complicated all the more. So on and on. But I don't want to talk about the past. To me, the difference between you, I'm more interested in the future, and I'm more interested in the future because that's what's at stake and what can be used to activate the living conditions and conditions of employment for the Greeks. And there are two problems with Plisán. There's a first problem with intermodality. You know as I do that depends on the general administration of the state. And you're thinking little about Spanish politics. The PNV managed to remove Mr. Rajoy's Government from the connection of the port of Bilbao to the European freight corridor. And Galicia what? In Master Plan SICA, whose Government defends, Plisán's access to the current railway line is set as a priority project. When will this be ready? We are no longer talking about the modernization of the railway connection with the port of Vigo, which is also planned, nor is it the connection of Plisán with the future corridor Monforte-Forte de Baños, which would make it possible that we were treated just like the port of Bilbao, after that agreement of the PNV with Mr. Rajoy's Government. We need a country agreement to boost infrastructure, and when you can't, you ask for help. And you couldn't. Rajoy punished him, we don't know why, but he's punishing all of Galicia with you. And with respect to the price of the plots, the price must be competitive. You know as I do that Portugal is offering better conditions in the north, and here are two possibilities: either Portugal is violating Community legislation, and in this case it will have to be pursued, or it is doing well and then we have to copy it. And you have to tell me if we chase Portugal or if we copy it, one by two. They gave him the medal of honor from the Port, Mr. Feijóo, for his contribution to Galicia's relations with northern Portugal. I didn't know that the industrial soil policy he developed these years was so well known in the southern Mine. The Euroregion is already a reality for entrepreneurs, and it's fine, but let's give Galicia an opportunity for the training and experience of workers, business entrepreneurship and our capabilities not to clash with the insufficiency, price and low quality of the offered industrial soil, which is what depends directly on its ability, its government. Seventeen years later we can only offer an eiral in Plisán, that's right, now with lamps. All right, but it's not finished with urbanization, it's not sanitation, it's not clean, it's not water capture yet, it's not intermodal... it's only 100,000 square meters, it's half acres per year, at a cost too high for businessmen to be able to sit down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u26	Mr. President, neither manages twenty years for ten hectares nor political weight. That's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You say you don't want to talk about the past, I'm not surprised, Mr. Leicega. Industrial soil policy doesn't want to talk. It hides the House that let the public industrial soil companies break down, hides the House that owes everyone, that they didn't pay expropriations, that they didn't pay the banks, that they hid the House that broke the industrial soil policy in Galicia, and that's why they don't want to talk. But he also says we don't have competitive goods. But, Mr. Leicega, do you know who approved in Europe and who proposed the North Shore in Europe? The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Yes. You say you don't care, or you don't know. But don't you know it was the Socialist Party that took us from Galicia to the Meseta on merchandise? And now we have to try to get back the wasted time to get a way out of Galicia through Monforte with the Meseta for merchandise? But, Mr. Leicega, who do you want to fool? He says there's no debugger or positrator. Sure, we're doing it, Mr. Leicega. Yeah, we're doing it, paying the neighbors. Yes, Mr. Leicega. But you'll see. Look, I'm just gonna give you a date. For two and a half years — because industrial soil bonus policies are this government — we have reduced the price of industrial soil by between 30% and 50%. During the two and a half years of bonus policies we sold both industrial soil and during the years 2007 and 2008, times of economic well-being; 808,000 square meters of sold industrial soil. Yes, Mr. Leicega, as much as in the years of economic kindness. For the first time in Galicia there is a possibility of paying in the environment of half a square meter/year to put a factory or industry in the industrial soil of the Union of Galicia. We have 600,000 square meters at our disposal. Your Honor, there has never been a policy of greater bonus and lower cost price/square meter of industrial soil than there is now. That's why we're surprised, Mr. Leicega, that you come here talking about industrial soil. Look, we make decisions: discounts of between 30% and 50% and the establishment of half-euro square meter/year surface rights; we have obtained results and, indeed, we have sold more than 810,000 square meters over the last two years. And why not make proposals? Look, if you want to talk about Portugal, I think we should talk about Portugal. You're reviewing the metallurgical trade, service, Portugal's, and the Greek conventions. I'm sure we're not going in any case to propose a reduction in the wages of the Greeks, of course not. I don't! But if I'd like to have the same fiscal activity as the municipalities they have in Portugal. Mr. Leicega, will you support the Government of Greece to ask the Greek municipalities to reduce or exempt 90% of the IBI, construction tax and economic activity tax for businesses in Galicia? Will the Socialist Party and the mayors of the Socialist Party propose a tax discount so that companies located in the areas of the municipalities where the Socialist Party governs have the same tax possibilities as in Portugal? We do! Are you, Mr. Leicega? Mr. Leicega, if you want an industrial policy, the first thing to be consistent. Unfortunately, Mr Leicega, your last actions in Parliament qualify for themselves. I hope and wish you to regain coherence because, look, we have just available, we have tools to keep working and there's the highest price bonus... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u30	...of industrial sole of Galician history. That is why, Mr Leicega, we need everyone — the municipalities and the Union — to fulfil their obligations. On the side of the board, don't worry we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece in relation to the general State budgets for the year 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u32	Mr Luis Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, a year ago you were playing a fun campaign of the People's Party with Rajoy saying, "We have to vote for Galicia to remain a priority." Rajoy has Galicia permanently in his heart, in his head, in the budgets and in the BOE. The campaign could be fun if it wasn't for the budgets just discussed in the State House this year, in 2017. Now, with these new budgets, do you keep this statement? Do you think Galicia is a priority for Rajoy? Let's see: as for infrastructure investments, the real investments for 2016 were 1,364 million euros, and by 2017, 925; that is, 30% less, the lowest budgets in the last fifteen years. It seems to Rajoy Galicia is a priority, but in short. Are you satisfied with these cuts? Are these the clippings that worry you or that don't cut your head off in Madrid? It would work. The state and German civil servant, who is worth more than 100,000 people in Galicia, is seen to be increasing by state budgets and their community counterparts, 1%. Rajoy thinks with his head in Galicia, but his head must have something small because the annual IPC is already 2.6 and the forecast is 3%. In real terms, this means that a public employee in Galicia in any of the administrations that a year ago paid $1,000 now, in real terms, will charge 973, or 16.26 % less of purchasing power. This is having a head, isn't it? Stand alone. About 110,000 people in the autonomous regime in Galicia will start paying 3% more than the minimum rate, which means 8 euros more a month, i.e. 96 euros more a year. Our autonomouss and our autonomouss know how to account, not like you and Mr. Rajoy. It must be that in Madrid mathematics is just to stay; if they were explained here in English, they might see that the sum also exists. That's thinking with your head, surely. But the bloodiest, the most worrisome: pensioners. In Galicia, 756,000 contribution pensions are paid, of which 60% are lower than the minimum inter-professional wage. The average pension in Galicia is around 774 euros, 16% less than the state average. Rajoy — with his head on the other side — sobs this year by 0.25%. If we take that 2.6% into account, we see that the variation in less than one year to this part is 20 euros less per month. Mr. Núñez, besides, our pensioners women have the lowest amounts for wages and pensions. Why are they doing this to them? Where's your head? And, above all, where's your heart, the one that said you had in Galicia? By the way, the data is all published on the IGE and INE website, and I hope you've checked them before you come to the Chamber, but it doesn't happen to you like last week and you find yourself here in the very hemicycle of the fallouts that Villar Mir does in Borme, for example. And also, once you take the rabies, think carefully about the things you say because it may seem like an easy resource to intrude, for example, my professional work as a magistrate. But it's going to be much easier for me to remind you that before you were a member of Parliament walking in luxury yachts with illustrious drug traffickers... so that while some of us were around people who worked for justice, others were surrounded by malevolents. [[Murmurs.]] So let's talk about the past as many times as I want... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u34	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u35	...recompiling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u36	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u37	...recompiling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u38	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u39	...recompiling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u40	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u41	Say it's not true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u42	Go on, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u43	They say it's not true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u44	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u45	We're going to end up with the four truths stated in the budgets: 30% less real investments for Galicia, almost 1 million people damaged by the 2017 budgets. If we add the 100,000 public employees, the 110,000 self-employed, the 750,000 pensioners, the quota of self-employed, the 96 euros plus a year; in the civil service, 227 euros less a year; in pensioners, 280 euros a year... Mr. Feijóo, what did you do to Rajoy to treat him like this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u46	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u47	Your Honor, I am at ease with my head; don't worry about my head. I understand that sometimes the unconscious betrays everyone. I don't know if you're worried or not about yours, but for me, Your Honor... as long as the Greeks continue to vote, I have no problem with my head. I have the commitment until 2020; you, Your Honor, I don't know how it is or exactly who it is around. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, you can mount another function. For you and your group, the Tide of Podemos, Parliament is a circus and every day you have to perform a role. And today it plays the role of heads, of confusing people, of manipulating, of saying that since Rajoy arrives pensioners in Galicia earn less, etc. No, no, Your Honor, no, that's a falsity, but what else does it give you if you rigour has long abandoned it? [[Murmurs.]] If he does the same, among other things, because keeping his head is incompatible with being strict. And since you're much more interested in keeping your head up, you probably follow the rigour of this old decabecs. Look, Mr. Spokesman, my assessment of state budgets is known, it's not the first time. You don't have a lot of new questions lately, always look up or ask questions from previous spokespersons or the same ones. We've been talking about state budgets for a long time. I know you're upset that there are budgets, among other things, because what you want is a motion of censure. Do you come like we can say yes? What else do budgets give you if what you want is a motion of censure, Mr. Spokesman? [[Laughter]] But, look, we're being encouraged by the budgets. I know you don't, you know why? Because they've been ruling in the cities of Galicia and they're unable to approve the budget. Why do you want budgets? What you're doing in Ferrol with the budgets is boreal aurora. What they've done with the Coruña budgets is to learn. Your honor, therefore, of budgets... if you don't care about budgets! If you don't know what they're going to do, how they're executed, how they conform! There's no doubt about that. [[Applause]] You have no doubt. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But to us, after a year without budgets in Spain, we're interested in budgets. They are interested in conveying the image that we are a stable country and that we fulfill our obligations. We're interested, of course, to finish the pending work that remains to be advanced. And they're interested, of course, in public employees covering 1% and updating their salaries. I know that when you ruled in a coalition with the Socialist Party for public servants, if you took away 5% of your wages forever; you were silent. When the Socialist Party ruled, the pensions were frozen; you were quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u49	And on territorial budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u51	Look, Your Honor, the investment of the Ministry of Development in Galicia is 11% of the total that is invested in Spain — 11% —. We are the second autonomous community with the largest investment per inhabitant. We have 67% more per capita than the Spanish average, 67% more per capita than the Spanish average. And you think they're absolutely insufficient, I understand, that's why you're making amends. Of course you do! They present an amendment — here it is — to the lady who was previously on her site — the spokesperson for Izquierda Unida, formerly was the spokesperson leader here, which is: "The line between Madrid-Burgos for the economic revitalization of southern Castile is priority and urgent". No, no, I know you guys don't know... No, if I understand. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] The problem is, you don't know about this or budgets. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, don't miss the papers, you see something nervous now at the end. If you don't have any problems with your head, raise your head and defend the self-employed, raise your head and defend your staff. [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, above all, raise it up and defend the pensioners and pensioners of this country. [[Applause]] The data is published there, talk to that data. Does the question bother you? Do you think it's an uncomfortable question? He's always complaining about the questions we ask him! Well, look, by chance, you asked an identical question when I was the President's Touriño in 2008. So you didn't think it was an absurd question? No, right? [[Applause]] Don't! [[Applause]] And, of course, what did you say on October 1, 2008 — is it still published on Parliament's website? You said the budgets were conformists, among other things, because they were forecasting for the AVE of that 600 million euros. And now that they provide for 525, what is it?, is it an act of submission?, an act of cowardice? What kind of act is that kind of investment nine years later? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u54	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u55	Please explain to us what kind of act is your silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u57	A silence that comes to nothing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u58	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u59	The level one is Mr. Feijó's statements. What did you do to Rajoy for Rajoy to treat him like that?Oh, my God! [[Murmurs.]] Tell us what! [[Laughter]] We wanted that. [[Applause]] And we want, in addition, an investment like that of Catalonia so we can modernise the medium distance train and establish a nearby service. Why don't we have any of this for our country? What's the matter, we don't deserve it? Don't the majority of Galicians deserve a kind of infrastructure like that? Let's not say it's just like the Basque Country. They're also upset about the coupon. It bothers them that other communities have what this gentleman cannot ask our country to improve the quality of life of these people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u60	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u61	It's very good that he'll come and talk to us about the budgets because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u62	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u63	And we come back again with published information, two details: the first, which, by spending per inhabitant, is not the second, is the third. Correct, let's do the math for him, which doesn't seem like it. But it's just that, look, you do well to raise your voice when you share these crumbs to say, well, at least you run what they agree to. You know why? Because last year budget execution in Galicia was 41%. Oh! [[Murmurs.]] Or 41%! Do you know how much the average was? The average was 57.97%, it was the lowest in the state! And, of course, other autonomous communities governed by the People's Party reached 74% in the case of Murcia, in the case of other communities, such as Castela-A Mancha, 74%, and Madrid at 137%. Or 137 percent! [[Murmurs.]] With which, it is not true whether or not to have budgets in 2016 to execute them completely. What happens is that there's an absolute majority here and there's a meek president who doesn't care for his citizenship, and that's what concerns us, that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u64	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u65	Are you satisfied with these budgets?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u66	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u67	Look, Your Honor, do you want AVE to Galicia, yes or no? Let's clear up your infrastructure policy. You know you're around in the group, but those who command in the group—leo—: "We don't want great pharaonic works like the AVE"—textually-. The deputy next to you, Mr.Anton Sánchez: "AVE is a huge business and waste. There are no more projects than drilling mountains." And he calls his high speed "classist and centralizer." Mrs. Díaz says "yes." End of date. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, what sector are we in? [[Applause]] The question, Your Honor, is: do you agree with the AVE? Thank you, Your Honor, for your Members are aware of what sector you are in, because we really don't know what you are talking about in this Parliament; we don't know, sir. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, to the Greeks, at last, to the president of the Greeks, who is to whom the Greeks voted, he does not like to draw attention, but if he defends them, as is natural, and we raise our heads to defend our Greeks in Venezuela. Yes, Your Honor, yes, and we raised our heads to the previous plenary so that our Greeks in Venezuela, who had to leave the country, could keep their pensions in Spain. We raise our heads for dignity, for freedom, for democracy, for lordship. We are in favour of the return of the Greeks from Venezuela to their pensions and rights. [[Applause]] You, who says you've ever been a magistrate, are against the rule of law. Look, we raise our heads for the officials who fulfill the judgments. We raised our heads and raised our hands against assaulting police officials for carrying out a judge's sentence and redefining the constitutional right of property. We raised our heads and raised our hands to meet the rule of law. [[Applause]] Your Honor, how will the delighted justice that you have ceased to implement and administer it be? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, with all due respect in the world, we are criticized in Andalusia because there is a flight of millions from AVE to Galicia — Parliament of Andalucía has said — and now it turns out that you are worried about that of Catalonia: EUR 4 billion in four years. We have 900 first year, and, of course, we don't want to understand that, as you don't want there to be budgets and the Socialist Party doesn't want us to have budgets for one semester, the second half of 2017, because they're going to approve June 26th, against you. Because if it were for you, there would be no AVE, there would be no assumptions, there would be no investment in the modernization of Galicia; no AVE, no assumptions, no modernization of Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, however overactively defending Galician VAE in budgets, we'll never forget that the senators in the Senate voted against Galician VA a few weeks ago; we won't forget it. As much as it overacts, you voted against AVE to Galicia in the Senate; to a proposal, by the way, of a socialist senator. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, Your Honor, for the purposes of AVE, you are equal to Citizens and UPyD to Galicia, exactly the same. I have no difference between Citizens and UPyD and the Power Tides for the effects of AVE on the Autonomous Community. So, Your Honor, when there's a paron in the AVE, you protest; when the budget is approved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u69	...and we are the second autonomous community in greater investment per inhabitant, you protest. I don't know why they question you so much, Your Honor. You're the perfect spokesman for a party that has no criteria. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the agenda and we return to point five, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the demand to the Government of Spain to speed up the process of transferring refugees to Spain through relocation and settlement, and to comply with the commitments agreed to with the European Union on reception
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u71	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u72	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Let me stop you. I must begin by lamenting the hasty departure of this government, which, not repeatedly, ceases to be striking. They are clear what the priorities of this government are and how, once the opposition is disqualified, they run away from listening to the issues that concern us. I'm sorry the president isn't here to hear it, but then you can pass the message to him, because it turns out that when the president disqualifies the opposition not only is disqualifying the main opposition group, he's disqualifying the 271,000 people who voted for En Marea, and that's indeed a lack of respect. [[Applause]] They're also showing little respect for democracy. Then they talk about defending human rights, and when it comes to talking about the human rights of people in Syria, it's seen that it's not one of their priorities and they have to go to other matters. [[Applause]] Having said that, let me continue to greet the part of the people who integrate... President, please. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u74	Yes, yes, you're right. Silence!, silence, please! because, if not, it is very difficult for what is in the use of the word to expose accordingly. Then be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u75	Having said that, let me continue to greet the part of the people who accompany us today, the part of the people who are part of the Galician Network of Care to the refugees. Carmen, Isabel, Teresa, Miguel, Adrián, Maria — who can't be here today — thanks for accompanying us, but thank you, of course, for your daily work to remind us that it's important, to remind us that we came here to put a voice to people who don't have it. For all this, thank you very much for defending the dignity of all people, regardless of where they live. It turns out that people's dignity is not only in Venezuela, it's everywhere in the world, in Syria, too. You are the ones asking us to remember how important it is to come to talk about a matter that should shame all of us: the great failure. I don't think there's another title more appropriate to talk about the attention of refugees, the great collective failure of the European project that is proving unable to give a coordinated response to the migration challenges we have in recent years. Once again, the political representatives of all European bodies were not up to the people they said they represented. Nothing makes you think this is going to change. The media focus, unfortunately, has been moving away for months from the refugees. There have been no more photos like Aylan's, and so it seems that nothing has happened. No new photographs were made, although they could well be done — in fact, much closer to us — similar photos on the Spanish beaches. I think, for example, of Samuel, who appeared dead in the Barbate area. For those who don't know him, Samuel was a child who ran away with his family from the Congo and died trying to get to Spain. This is not the first time I speak of Samuel in this Parliament, nor is it the first time that Aylan is mentioned, but it is that Aylan and Samuel had a lot in common, were two children traveling with their families in dangerous ships loaded with despair to reach Europe, fleeing the terror, victims of wars and who ended their days on Mediterranean beaches. The focus has been turned off, as I said, and that's why we seem to forget the humanitarian drama of exile of people who escape war, who escape terrorism and hunger. But the nightmare continues; in fact, we are witnessing an unprecedented situation, as a result of a wrong and unjust foreign policy that comes in the form of military intervention or asymmetric economic relations and that has caused chaos and social instability in many countries, which end up leading to war conflicts. "Who sows wars, collects shelters," wrote Manu Pineda in Eldiario.es a few months ago; clear responsibilities in the causes, therefore, that are nevertheless not accompanied by a co-responsibility in the search for solutions. In early 2016, for the first time since World War II, the number of people displaced from their homes as a result of the conflicts exceeded 65 million people, according to UNHCR data; a figure that would increase if we add to the thousands of people displaced by natural disasters or poverty. This situation reveals the inability of the international community to resolve and anticipate conflicts and situations of humanitarian emergency, as well as the lack of political will to lay down solutions and comply with something as basic as human rights and international protection. Focusing solely on the case of Syria, we should talk about five million refugees since the beginning of the conflict. Eight months ago, on 22 September, it was a year since European Union leaders agreed on an emergency resettlement mechanism to share responsibility for asylum. I'm not going to go into the boisterous ball of figures now or into the shameful negotiation between states to share the coupons. That would lead to a complete intervention. I'm just going to point out that we're talking about an agreement that came late, clearly insufficient and that it was born doomed to failure. The agreement has been signed, but tens of thousands of people have continued and continue, while we're talking here, crowded in refugee camps in deplorable conditions. In the case of the Spanish State, it was only 6% of the committed figure, which meant that at this rate we would take more than eight years to comply with the commitments; eight years in which thousands of people would continue to come and would, of course, continue to die without it happening. 6%, as I said; and more than a year later Spain only welcomed 1,141 people of the 17,337 who said they would welcome them. They've arrived in Galicia 88. Unfortunately, it's not an exception. The lack of four months to finish the deadline that the same European leaders had set was only 24% of the commitment: one in four, one in four people. And what happens in the meantime to the rest? Hundreds of thousands of people condemned to wait in camps of overcrowded refugees, even dead of cold in Europe's gates, are dealing with missing human beings, children and children, but also deportations to their places of origin, those where their lives are in danger, and nothing happens. It is indeed shameful that the European States are unable to fulfil their commitments, unable to act in coordination to resolve this humanitarian crisis in which they have so much responsibility. Far from this, European governments are responsible for a migration policy for the outsourcing of borders which is probably failed, deadly and insensitive to human rights. Clearly, the painful agreement signed between the European Union and Turkey, which not only put a price on people's lives, but, by calling it a safe country, is serving to make Greece a prison and the Mediterranean a cemetery. Remember, 36,000 people died in the Mediterranean trying to reach Europe in the last 15 years. Last year these deaths, according to UNHCR data, surpassed 5,000 people who were drowned trying to reach the poisoned European dream; 5,000 people who certainly believed that the defence of human rights was something more than a European slogan. And along with the figures for the deceased, others, hard and clear: in the last five years, the European Union has allocated EUR 2 billion to strengthen borders and only 700 to host and guarantee the right of asylum for the refugees; 2,000 to 700. But there are more, according to the report The migrants rows, since 2000 European countries have spent 11,300 million euros on exporting immigrants out of Community territory; 1,300 million euros! Imagine what I'd expect to put that money in the refugee camps, but there's no such thing. The Spanish Government, for its part, has implemented the transit visa for people of Syrian origin and in 2016 has legalized, contravening international legislation, illegal returns on the southern border, which in practice is intended to squander the right to asylum. These are some of the numbers of failure, the figures of shame, which we're going to have to explain one day, because this time the excuse we didn't know it wouldn't serve. We know; we know what is going on and what is going on, we know that European migration policy causes pain and death; a migration policy that demonstrates the grotesque caricature in which the European Union is becoming; a Europe that revolves around itself, that raises walls and ramparts that will prevent people from seeing what is on the other side, but that, of course, will not prevent people from coming. Meanwhile, we look elsewhere, we blame Europe as if we had nothing to do with Europe, as if Europe were not all of us. We demand our governments to comply, starting with the Spanish Government. They talk to their colleagues in Europe, we demand that they be up to it, there is no impatience to barbarity or equity to shame. We don't want to be accomplices in a Europe that excludes people who need help, we're not going to look elsewhere. At the bottom of the table we have two Europes: a strong, neoliberal and cruel Europe, at the service of the markets, which raises walls and ramparts that separate us, but, fortunately, there is another Europe: that of citizenship, that of organised citizenship, which screams: "We want to welcome!"Come on!""that of the Galaga Network of Care for Refugees, that of so many and so many organizations willing to collaborate, who want to hold bridges. That is why we put forward this non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Spain, firstly, to significantly speed up the process of transferring refugees to Spain, through its relocation and resettlement; and, secondly, to comply with the commitments agreed with the European Union to host 17,337 refugees." We're late, but it depends on us all doing something once in a while.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u77	Good day to all and all. Also greet the people who accompany us today from the rostrum. And indeed, the number of refugees and displaced persons in the world is indecent, we're talking about more than 65 million people in 2017. It's a record number after World War II and the rich countries have nothing else to deal with, because these refugees have reached European territory; otherwise, in many cases they would continue to look elsewhere, as they are doing with the refugees in Sahara, with the situation in Palestine or with the refugees in many African countries. I want to show BNG's concern today for this situation, because, indeed, the Spanish State does not even comply with that minimum number of refugees, 17,387, to which it committed itself in 2015. I would also like to denounce how the attention of these refugees is being attributed to development aid, with which those development aid is declining in a very significant way and is meaning to let other people be taken away — instead of implementing the resources, they are sharing them — that the Spanish State, despite that commitment, has been lowering development aid since the year 2008; that is, there is no less a commitment on the part of the Spanish State to this issue. On 4 April this Parliament adopted an institutional statement, which means that it is the unanimous agreement of all the groups present here, with exactly this same text and this very decisive part which it brings here today in Marea, which I am sure will be approved today; I do not believe that two months later it will be a violation of what has already been voted upon in this Parliament. With which, as I say of course this goes so, the Galician Nationalist Block we tabled a amendment to this initiative to go a little further, which, since we agreed to make this request to the Spanish Government, which at the moment seems to have not been able to listen well, BNG is presenting a amendment to this non-legislative proposal which we want to go to the causes of the problem of refugees and refugees. And the amendment of the BNG says that "the Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to exist from the Spanish Government that radically and urgently changes the policies of labelling by other aid and welcoming refugees, that ceases to implement and support imperialist and military policies behind this situation and defends and implements actions aimed at removing all military forces, starting with NATO, the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, respecting the sovereignty of the peoples and the political resolution of conflicts, promoting a policy of peace, solidarity and cooperation among all peoples and implementing a policy of internationalist solidarity and anti-imperialist action throughout Europe and throughout the world." Of course, it seems to us an indecency what the so-called rich countries are doing, particularly the European Union and the Spanish State. It's indecent that it's a threat to human beings who only commit the terrible crime of fleeing from hunger, poverty, war and persecution. We denounce deportations, whether individual or collective. We denounce this agreement with Turkey, which only makes it a huge concentration camp the situation of refugees. And we say, loud and clear, that it is outrageous to respond to this capitalist Europe, to the service of oligarchy, an answer that makes it clear that the concern is not to solve the human drama, nor the social, economic or political problems that are at the root of this tragedy of refugees, but rather that the main concern is to shield and leave them out. A European Union that acts with all speed to prevent the arrival of refugees, but does not act with any speed to act on the causes that force them to flee. The dimension of the crisis of refugees emigration has the origin of this imperialist robbery, led by the United States and followed by all the allies of the European Union, who do not doubt to lead to war, death, destruction, misery to various countries in order to achieve their strategic objectives, to policate the natural resources of those countries, mainly energy, and then to unburden themselves of the consequences on the population. We certainly have to take urgent measures, immediate measures, such as welcoming these refugees, such as responding to the humanitarian crisis, but we have to be clear that this drama is not solved by creating a huge concentration camp in Turkey, but by taking action on the causes, that refugees will continue to arrive for thousands if they do not act on the causes, that really confronting the refugee problem means another non-war policy and interference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u79	It's over, Mr. President. We consider it necessary to act on the causes, and the causes are to provoke war, to intervene, to enter these countries. And in short, what BNG calls for with this amendment is a change in that policy of the European Union, changing the policy of interference by a policy of genuine support for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u81	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all and all. First of all, also greet and welcome this hemicycle to the Galician Network and congratulations on the work you're doing. "They did their needs after some tables, vomited on each other, and soon they were filled with lice. The acid of the vomiting and the saltwater of the sea wore their clothes, which turned into rags. They fed powdered potatoes, gauzeed, water was rationed." This, Your Honor, is a text of a book, The voice of the overcome. It's not the story, the experience of one of the refugees, of any of the refugees we're talking about right now. It's when the refugees and the refugees were us. It's when the refugees and the refugees had to escape from this country because of the lack of freedom. It's from any child or child who isn't named Aylan or Manuel, but who could be called Pablo, Begoña or even who could have any other kind of proper name at that time, and who was going and had to leave on a boat in Venezuela. Mrs. Chao, Venezuelan emigrants have also been sheltered, and have been sheltered for fighting for freedom and democracy in this country. That's why the Socialist Group doesn't differ between first and second refugees, and we're never going to do it in this House, either from Venezuela, from Syria or from where they come from. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, about twenty-five years ago this country gave an example of welcoming refugees. That was the conflict of ancient Yugoslavia, ruled by a socialist party that had no charity, but practiced solidarity, which was able to look into the eyes of the countries around it and act accordingly. So there was a much worse economic situation than at present, there was less experience in welcoming refugees in the European Union and we were able to do so. It was, ladies and gentlemen, a matter not of having means, but of having empathy with others. There was also a moment when this country painted something in the international landscape. There was a president who took Spain from this terrible and shameful picture of the Azores. That is why this honourable Member and this group, when they heard today the President of the Union talk about raising their heads with dignity, with freedom and democracy, what they remembered was the day we brought the troops back, the day that that picture of the Azores was drawn, the picture of shame, gentlemen. [[Applause]] There was a country, as I said, that painted something about international cooperation, which was at the vanguard of Europe on this subject, with humanitarian action, with multilateralism, which placed Spain in the international context. But let's get to the point, because I have very little time. At the rate at which we are welcoming refugees, Spain would take exactly twenty years to accommodate all those remaining; it is twenty winters for those children and girls who are in tents at the doors of the prosperous — or so they call it — Europe. We don't want more excuses, neither NGOs, nor political parties, nor trade unions, nor citizenship; we want them here and we want them to come now. What happened in Galicia? Well, we made an institutional statement, as Mrs. Prado Cores remembered. A parliamentary agreement was announced, a plan for welcoming refugees, which I would remind the advisor to assume of it in the media. This group has recorded questions about this on February 6, that is, exactly four months ago, and we have no answer from any of the people who are welcomed or who are the plans of this autonomous community regarding the reception of refugees. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a phrase made around which it revolved part of the environmental policy and also solidarity of this country and of the European Union in the 1990s. It was like, "Think globally, act locally." We think it's also necessary to act autonomously. That's why the amendment we tabled on this initiative goes on this line. We don't want a Union government that hangs medals and takes photos to announce that it will bring refugees and that it won't bring them; we want a government that does solidarity, not charitable actions. That's why we also ask for a quarterly report on the reception plan, the number of applications and settlements, and a specific program, because if someone has taught a lesson in this whole process, since the war broke out and thousands of people are escaping from their country, that was citizenship, and of course also the citizenship of Greece. And for them we also ask for a specific help program for those people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u83	...that they want to take in some citizen or citizen of another country who is going through it can do it wrong and not have the economic limitation. We hope that today, Mrs Chao, if we come to an agreement in this House, but we hope even more, and that the agreements will be complied with, which we have not been accustomed to. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u85	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Greetings to those who accompany us today from the rostrum. We are no doubt talking about one of the social and humanitarian issues that most concern Europe and can't make anyone impatient. Of course, the Members of the People's Party do not leave us unsatisfied. The problems of these refugees do not leave us impatient, they do not leave us impassable social emergencies, no matter where they come from or where they live, whether they are from Venezuela or they are from Syria, or they are from Sahara; social emergencies are social emergencies, they are where they are. And social emergencies, Mr. En Marea, don't have ideology, social emergencies have to move consciences, and the duty of politicians is to try to avoid them and, if they happen, try to correct them. That, of course, is our conscience, that of course is what we think of from the People's Party, and that's why it's ahead of you that, the difference from what you've done with those Venezuelan pensioners who aren't charging their pensions, we, the People's Party, will support En Marea's proposal to help refugees and to speed up their incorporation. [[Applause]] Indeed, the Government of Spain in 2015 made commitments from the European Union to host 17,387 refugees, and that continues to be the commitment of the Spanish Government, as it demonstrates both permanent work with other administrations as well as with NGOs involved and as it demonstrates how the increase of resources to respond to this crisis by more than one hundred percent in terms of international protection and by more than 2,500 percent of the increase in budget for the national host and integration system. But you're right: so far there's only a little over 1,200, which means we're not yet at 7%; we're moving around in that direction as far as compromise is concerned. It is also true that this compliment is not unique from Spain, but that it is experiencing difficulties throughout Europe. As you know, for a relocation to take effect, it requires the execution of a pre-identification and verification process to ensure that the process is guaranteed. And once they get here, we have to offer them housing, maintenance, legal and psychological assistance, health, education, socialization, full integration and even their full incorporation through their work incorporation. There are, as you know, two phases: a first phase that is adaptation and a second phase where full incorporation is already in place. Hence the cooperation that is being maintained with autonomous communities, municipalities and NGOs. I am committed to what, by the way, the Council of Galicia is fully identified, Mrs. Noela, because to us, since the Council of Galicia, we are concerned about emergencies, whether they are being produced abroad or are being produced in Vigo, for example. Since the first moment, Mrs. Blanco, it must be said that the Board has been betting on the incorporation and resettlement of refugees, it has been showing its collaboration, and, if you had pursued parliamentary activity, you would know that here you have noticed, if you have noticed, what the Board is doing in Galicia; you have noticed this Mr. Parrado just over a month ago. At this time in Galicia, there are 131 asylum-seekers who have participated in the relocation and resettlement programme; they come from 20 countries, although most of them from Syria; in most cases they have a minor charge. And this program is managed with state-level entities, specifically in Galicia through the Red Cross and the FEMP, and also in collaboration with all the municipalities through the Fegamp, entities with which the Board, through the General Directorate of Social Inclusion, maintains close collaboration in order to overcome the pitfalls that may arise in the reception phases. At this first moment, almost all of them are in the first phase, and they're working in a cross-sectional way with resources, through the IGVS, schooling, health services, social services. In addition, it must be stressed that the Government of Greece, in the second phase of integration, in addition to making available to these people the same resources that are guaranteed to all Greeks, i.e. social services, education and health, as well as resources for inclusion and integration both with the different associations that are devoted to these issues and with the municipalities. In any case, the concern about the situation of refugees, without entering into valuing particularism, is or must be a feeling shared by all, institutions of all political colors, humanitarian collectives and of course the people of the common world. This feeling of solidarity in general was referred to at the Conference of Presidents at the beginning of the year and even there a coordinated emergency aid plan was agreed, precisely to try to alleviate the deficiencies and try to speed up the procedures further.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to finish. Say Galicia also participates in this project. Galicia has already given the Government of Spain its willingness to welcome the refugees who had been sent to it and in this Parliament we have approved, as you have mentioned here, an institutional statement in this regard. Therefore, our vote today will be affirmative to this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u88	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u89	Welcome to the deal, of course. The truth is, we don't get used to the one who's going to go ahead with something that we're proposing. Welcome to the deal. Thank, of course, the goodwill of all groups. It is good news, no doubt, that this Parliament has a unanimous stance, which goes in line with what it should be, with which it is clearly out, which is the will of the Greeks and the Greeks to make Galicia a country of solidarity. Welcome to the deal, therefore. Now they just need to call on their colleagues in Madrid and tell them they've voted on something here and they've fulfilled their commitments, because, of course, it's very good to say that we're going to commit ourselves to the attention of the refugees but then cut the resources for this game. It's like the world backwards, hard to explain. It is difficult to explain above all that the People's Party has just voted against an amendment to the budgets in which it was requested to increase by 195 million euros the game intended for the attention of the refugees. So, of course, in an amendment that was not an invention of opposition groups, but actually presented Intermon Oxfam, ciphering alone — you see — 195 million euros are done to meet the commitment of attention to the refugees, the People's Party — as I say — voted against. So curious, hard to understand. In any case, thank you for supporting this non-law proposal, thank you for supporting it. As far as amendments are concerned, to say that, although we certainly share the substance of the amendment to the Nationalist Block in Wales, we are not going to accept it, because we understand that it overflows the objectives of this motion. As of course they will count on our favourable vote if they present a non-law proposal in these terms — we have moved forward from now on — but since today's initiative at Marea is not our thing but, as we have said here, it was an initiative referred to by civil society organizations and specifically the text that was registered was forwarded by Amnesty International, we think it would be inappropriate to accept an amendment without having previously discussed with them. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, if we accept as an addendum point (b) that seeks to provide more information, which we have from then on also requested on repeated occasions in this House, with little success. He said it before: the only thing we know, so we were told in a commission, was that 88 people arrived in Galicia, nothing else, not when it's expected to arrive more, how, where, with what resources. So we agree that we need more information. I'm done, since we're surprised, as I said, to count on a positive vote by the People's Party, giving a voice to some of the people we're talking about today. That's why I wanted to end with the words of a Somali refugee in this case who wrote a poem to dedicate it to Syrian refugees, saying, "I ran away from me now, I don't know what I've become, but I know you'll be safer anywhere than here.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Let's make Galicia, therefore, a secure land, make Galicia a land of shelter for all the people who need it, with enough resources. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the blockades and restraints that have been taking place on the AP-9 motorway
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u91	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u92	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. We'll talk again about AP-9 and we'll talk here every time it's necessary, because it seems to us of course an extremely serious matter what's going on, what's going on now, what's going on over the last few years. And we just need to go through the hemero library. July 2012: Development opens the file to Audasa for roadblocks, AP-9. July 2014: Feijóo encourages the Greeks to denounce Audasa. That the AP-9 dealership causes the jams is something we can't accept. Together demands the Promotement measures to avoid jams and lower rates on AP-9. That's what Mr. Feijó said in July 2014. The Ministry of Development opens an information file to Audasa for excessive delays in the beaches. Pastor points out he opened a file to the company and is under inspection. Then Mrs. Pastor said, two years ago, "There have always been attacks, but now they're taking action.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Anyway, let everyone draw their conclusions. I promote an ultimatum to Audasa for the solution to AP-9 locks: either solve the locks or withdraw the concession. The minister sent the inspectors to check on site the solution of the fees, a measure that has never been done in the history of the highway. This was announced. Nothing at all. And at that time the minister even announced a global audit for the situation of the highway, mainly because of the poor service and the problems of the retentions and locks that occurred in the beaches. Well, do you know what these ads were left for? Nothing, smoke. And why? Basically, because you Audasa gives him the treatment of a friendly company, with permission, with the complicity of the People's Party governments, whether from Madrid or from Galicia, among other reasons also because, of course, the President of Audasa has been a gentleman named Andrés Muntaner Pedrosa, who was placed there by the People's Party, when the highway was still public, and who is curiously from Pontevedra and Mr. Rajoy's personal friend. By the way, Mr. Muntaner Pedrosa must do his job very well, because he pays the substantial salary of 172,000 euros a year — as you know —. Well, all those ads that were made were a pure paripé, they were fireworks of artificial to calm the spirits, to soothe logically the outrage of the people we suffered every day the abuses of Audasa, the abuses of the pricing scam, which are the most expensive of the state, above all for a bad service; also for the poor state of the infrastructure and knowing, as we know, the millionaire business that this self-sustained highway for the concessionaire, which is a real wire, a gold mine, with revenues of 46 million in 2016 and revenue every day of 380,000 euros. And above all, because of having those millionaire incomes, it turns out that they reduce the staff table by nothing more and nothing less than 85 people in ten years, coming now, in 2016, to the company's minimum historic staff, with 215 people. And all this was adopted, in case it was still little, by the announcement of a further increase in the rates as a result of the agreements signed, of the agreements signed with governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party to finance the works of expansion of the Rande Bridge and also of the third lane in Santiago de Compostela, mainly. So we're still going to suffer, above all, a new increase in the rates. Well, the reality is that, after all the announcements of the Central Government, of the Ministry of Development, we continued to suffer abuses and jams in 2015, in 2016, always with the same canteen: that there were records, that there was research; even there came to be an investigation of the People's Valuer, which, by the way, now also repeats itself with another of the People's Valedora. So it's raining on wet and we're running out of patience. I said it the other day: God gives us wrath, because patience is enough. Of course, there's little left to stop this scam, this abuse, the highway. Well, in 2017, above all, the aggravation of the People's Party veto to the transfer of AP-9, which is, as we have already said, a shameful display of submission, vassalage, with which the People's Party behaves with respect to the People's Party in Madrid. They don't paint anything, the same thing that's happening with the state budget processing, in which Galicia is missing, the German People's Party is missing. Your deputies don't paint anything. Well, if it's true that in the years 2012, 2014 and 2015 you apparently protested by that scandal of the malfunction of the fees and retentions. Now they have changed records, now, as they have created this bilateral phantom commission — which we do not know very well what it is dedicated to —, parity and the highest level between the Ministry of Development and the Board of Galicia, because it turns out they do the role of [...] of the central government, they don't even protest. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Article 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] They consent, justify and protect the troops — because they can't be called otherwise — and the abuse of Audasa. Restraints and jams have been repeated very seriously this Holy Week — not in the summer, as has happened these years, but in the Holy Week — now aggravated by the works being done on the highway. By all means he has agreed to do all of them now at the same time, with an absolute lack of planning and forecasting. There were kilometre restraints at the rate of Vilaboa, hundreds of motorists trapped up to five kilometers of tails. And also in April there were problems arising from the works of the AP-9 expansion in Santiago de Compostela, which forced the motorists, nothing more and nothing less than to go to the Standard — because they would not let them out of the Milladoiro — and have to turn around, and above pay the fee. What do you call this? So we are faced with a real abuse, a real scandal; and, besides, every day. You know that because you also use — at least, some of you, like you, Mr Pazos, who is also the spokesperson on this issue — every day on the highway. And we are also suffering every day from the abuse of works that force us to travel at 60 hours over many miles, in a situation of risk and danger, changing lanes, circulating in two senses only, one sense of going and the other back, as if it were, or worse still, a conventional road; a true yincana that we have to do to come from Vigo or from Pontevedra to Santiago. And the Government of the Union and the Ministry of Development, instead of demanding responsibilities, as I told you, they covered this situation. So did the spokesperson for the People's Party in this House, who said that, of course, the blockades we all suffer and that also when we go to the beaches there are jams. Small frivolity!, with which you are falling, with the wig and the indignation that exists in the users and users of the highway. You ask here is, more or less, Christian resignation. For we do not resign, we demand that you act vigorously to avoid this swindle, this spolie and this abuse. And we propose four concrete, effective and immediate measures that must already be taken, which should already be done in that supposed follow-up commission — which is not for any reason, but that we demand that this House and the Government of Greece demand the Ministry of Development: first, open a file to the concessionaire and sanction agency for providing a pessimum service, a third service, while we pay the most expensive charges of the State; secondly, to approve a protocol in the case of restraints and locks that obliges us to lift the barriers when there is at least one kilometre retention — of course, as is the case in many self-directed State services —; thirdly, to conduct a study to reduce the fees in the trastements in works, because it is not fair, it is not logical, that they cover us when there is at least one kilometre when the highway is in work and not, because it is not the same service and because we are in a situation where we are most likely to move through that self-station, and it would give us the opportunity to have the necessary recovery of the necessary, and, and, as possible, the necessary, the safe location, the restoration of the necessary, the safe location. So what we're asking them to do is to defend the collective interests, not the interests of a private company, to face them and to feel the basis for ending the abuse of the fees and the abuse we're suffering from by the people we use at AP-9. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. I would ask you, if you don't mind — I understand your goat — but to replace the word "mammary" with another word, so that it wouldn't appear in the Journal of Sessions, because I believe it affects the decorum of this House. So we went to the speeches of the parliamentary groups. On the part of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Bará has well said, we've had a lot of debate about AP-9 in recent months. And it seems logical, because it shows the importance of this route in all road communications in our community. Consequently, ensuring the proper service and operation of AP-9 is essential to facilitate adequate mobility of Welsh citizenship. It indicates that the BNG is producing restraints and jams in AP-9, a circumstance that we understand it is necessary to follow closely to require those who have the responsibility of their management and those who are competitive on this route the measures that are necessary to prevent these problems from occurring, or to minimize their impact in case they may be inevitable on time. Ladies and gentlemen, we share your concern, and that's why the German Government has already demanded the Government of the State and the concessionaire of the highway that have taken the necessary steps to correct the service outlets that affect users. He did it in the past, and today, as a parliamentary group, we want to do it again. And we will continue to do so in the future as long as these problems are not addressed, regardless of the figures of profits or losses presented by the concessionaire. But at any given time, we are going to do so with strict attention to legality and out of the considerations, prejudices or private considerations that you intend to criminalize the business profit repeatedly, thus abounding in that vision — if you allow me — a child of a society divided into good and bad. Your Honor, it is not up to this House to assess the profits account of no private company or the salaries of its directors. And if what they intend with this account is to once again extend the shadow of a non-existent conspiracy of the elites against the interests of the Greek people, slave and ignorant according to some, and to what it is necessary to permanently rescue from decisions that are democratic, free and stubbornly adopted in the polls, for it is evident that we cannot agree. If, on the other hand, what is intended is to defend the interests of users, monitoring the fulfilment of the conditions of the concession, they can count on the support of the majority. And for that it must be established which is the source of the pitfalls and retentions that are being suffered in AP-9, because it is essential to determine the legal responsibility of those who correspond, according to the law, in the same way that it is essential to take the necessary corrective measures. Therefore, we will not be shaken by hand in demanding corrective or sanctioning measures, but it seems reasonable that it is determined in advance what is the source and who are responsible for the problem justifying this request. We therefore request this in the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, which it proposes to require, firstly, that the necessary measures be taken to resolve or minimize seizures and retentions; secondly, to ensure compliance with the conditions of the concession, especially with regard to the quality of service in the field of staff; and thirdly — yes — to investigate the actions of the concessionaire in relation to the quality of the service as a step prior to the possible adoption of corrective and/or sanctioning measures — the normal and reasonable in a rule of law. What seems unreasonable, Your Honor, is to constantly complain about the problems of saturation of a track and at the same time systematically oppose any of the structural solutions that are proposed to solve. Mr. Bará, you opposed the construction of AP-9, opposed your request for transfer to the Greek Government, opposed the expansion approved by the Socialist Government, which we did not agree with, opposed the construction of a free alternative route, and objected to the practice of all the actions that took place in Galicia in terms of high-capacity routes. In fact, even today you demand improvements, but at the same time you also oppose and are not willing to assume the consequences of performing the works inherent to those improvements. Anyway, the one of always, first, is "not to everything," and then, later, "everything we want now," "everything we want already." We have tried to be more coherent, and that is why we will continue to insist on the need for proper monitoring of the obligations of the concessionaire, in the same way that we continue to consider that such control would be more effective if the transfer of the motorway to the Greek Government took place. So we have expressed it, so we vote for it in this House and so we will continue to defend it, without doing something today and tomorrow asking for the opposite, without demagogy, without promises of impossible fulfillment, that for that there are others. Because we'd all like a generalized fee drop on AP-9, and even total suppression, so favored by BNG. But the truth is to pose that possibility as a reachable goal in the short term, and to link it directly to the transfer of the highway, is simply a blatant attempt to deceive the Greeks, in which we will not participate. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to remember that it was a government of the People's Party with a Welsh minister in front of the Ministry of Development that kept negotiations that assumed freeness for the usual users of the beach around the Vigo-Pontevedra Tram, Pontevedra-Vigo, the most expensive one in AP-9. And I wish we could get new benefits in the matter of fees. What a difference, Your Honor, with the inheritance of Mr. Zapatero's government!, the one who woke up twenty years of consecutive rise of peas, the reason of 1% a year, in the last council of ministers of that progressive government, 48 hours before the general elections, concealing from the citizen the shameful conditions of the royal decree signed by another Greek, the socialist minister Mr. José Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u97	...really decree that, by the way, it did not include any clauses of sanctions for seizures. I'll be done, Mr. President. But, of course, there the BNG lords didn't whitewash dark interests. And if they do, in any case, it does not prevent them from reaching government agreements with elite advocates, that socialists for you — and we know it — are only Spanish caste during the elections. If they must then do a work to the greatest glory of Mr. Abel Caballero, the greatest preboss of the socialists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u99	...and recently banished from the haven of neosocial orthodoxy, for they forget the attacks on the people of Greece and furrows to the sea, which is important not to rule the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u101	I hope that today we all maintain more coherent positions than these that I have just reported. Let's put some common sense on this issue, and send a message in defense of the interests of AP-9 users. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u102	Thank you very much for your intervention. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Again we're talking about the AP-9 motorway, the receiver and distributor highway of the greatest traffic density in Galicia, the highway that connects five of the major cities of Galicia, Ferrol, The Coruña, Santiago, Pontevedra and Vigo, of the motorway that channels and supports the intense traffic road of cities, towns and towns of the Atlantic Strip, where it resides around 60% of the population of Galicia and where it takes place around 70% of Galicia's economic activity. AP-9 plays a decisive role in the integration and articulation of the Welsh urban system, boosting mobility and ordering and generating road communication systems. It turns out to be an indispensable artery of connection and articulation of our territory, a strategic and vital infrastructure for Galicia, as well as a fundamental instrument of economic and social vertebration. AP-9 has been and will be a permanent reason for debate in this House, in line with its relevance, an identifying and recognisable relevance in the vocation of being a permanent opportunity of growth for Galicia. Today it continues to be indispensable, no longer fulfills that role, and I should fully play that role to put it to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks and not to the service of other interests at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks. That role of generating added value to which beneficiaries should be users changed from recipients to political decisions of the People's Government. The social perception is that this opportunity for Galicia that represents AP-9 has changed, through political decisions, into an exclusively economic opportunity for the concessionaire. Every year it is no longer an added value for society and for the economy of the Greeks and the Greeks, and it is becoming an unaccountable burden for families and businesses; charges that impose the current management of AP-9 to add to its benefits with the complicity of the state and the Galician governments of the People's Party. That's why we are debating so many initiatives on the freeway of the Atlantic in this House, so that it will stop being a burden on the Greek social and business fabric and become an incentive and an opportunity for growth. That is why we are debating the permanent price increases, the rise of VAT in tariffs, the different prices in the various tranches — only identified by ad hoc collection — about the absence of tariff subsidies, also about the manifest insufficiency of the conservation of AP-9, about staff cuts in maintenance tasks, about the reduction of staff in customer care booths, about the null reversal of benefits on the network itself, about the scandalous benefits of the concessionaire. We are debating in this House about AP-9 because we are aware of its importance and because it is necessary to break up with that management model in which we always lose — we lose competitiveness, especially — and the concessionaire always wins. And it earns more and more by rising costs and reducing services. The initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block that we are also debating is also debated year after year around these dates and it is enlightening of the convolence of the popular governments of Spain and Galicia in the way they act from the concessionaire. It is neither acceptable nor acceptable that in the light of the well-known increase in displacements with origin or destination in the AP-9 area as a result of the vacation and summer period, the concessionaire has not activated preventive measures and even compensation mechanisms for users and victims of seizures and retentions. That shows only his pursuit and indifference to the service he provides, and even his contempt for users, as the former Infrastructure Advisor at one time acknowledged.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u105	We believe that strong measures must be taken and that is why we will support this initiative of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr Pazos speaks of AP-9's management and responsibility as if he weren't with them. Whoever rules in the state is you, who manages Development is you. It's the People's Party that's running. This is sent where it belongs, and it's you who it is. You're the ones who gave the AP-9 Audasa award at a friend's price; that is, some kind of responsibility you'll have, don't come here and throw balloons out. And there's another question that Mr. Paz also commented: he's concerned that we made ourselves in the indecent benefits of Audasa because it's a private company. Home!, if a private company is earning 1 out of every 3 euros that we are leaving on the beaches, of course we are concerned and we seem to be indecency. And we don't understand how you don't look like an indecency and want us not to worry about the benefits you're getting from this public asset. Well, our position on AP-9 is well known. If it depended on En Marea, the highway would be recovered by the public sector and put to the service of citizenship. I would be at the service of Galicia's interests and its economic and social development rather than the service of the economic development of oligarchy investment funds, which Mr Pazos seems very good. Today there is an article in La Voz de Galicia by Mr Manuel Lago — I recommend that you read it — where there is an estimate of what would cost the ransom. Of course much closer than the ridicule you presented in the state to defend Audasa's interests. I recommend your reading. Now the situation isn't what we'd like about AP-9, because it's not up to us. The management of AP-9 is in the hands of a company that is getting great benefits and offering a poor service. So we are going to support this initiative, because we understand that, in the current situation, with AP-9 privatized and being a business object for a business group that also gains indecent added value, the measures proposed in this LNP are common sense, are measures that I think we can say, without fear of mistaking ourselves, that most citizens would understand that these are logical measures. It's a company that's exploiting a public asset and earns 1 out of every 3 euros that we pay in the payout booths, which divides 100 percent of its profits among shareholders while they fire personal and doesn't provide the service that should be demanded from you. We have already talked about the great gains of Audasa with the exploitation of the concession of AP-9, where the prices of the peas pose a scam and are an impediment to Galicia's good social and economic development. Between 2011 and 2015, the net profit after Audasa's taxes was 186 million euros — we are concerned, Mr Pazos — who devoted entirely to remunerating their shareholders; nothing to improve service, nothing to keep jobs. Data does not give rise to any doubts. With the award of AP-9 they win oligarchies and lose citizenship, another looting of the public that has as its origin a privatization made by the People's Party. A government with a view on the common good would never have granted the management of AP-9 at a friendly price without any requirement. The same people who tell the citizenry that they have to tighten their belts to pay for the financial system slips give all kinds of facilities to those who have enriched themselves with the practices that led us to the financial crisis. It seems common sense that if a company exploits a public asset and does not provide a quality service to its citizens, mechanisms are put in place to improve these services. In that sense, the four proposed points go this way and I think that the vast majority of the citizenry would agree with their execution. And as the work of a government is to rule for citizenship, they should be assumed without excuse of ill-paying as the amendments that the People's Party brings today. The opening of a sanctioning file for the bad service that Audasa is providing is a matter that had to get out of the Executive itself and not be brought here by any opposition group. The adoption of a protocol to lift barriers when there are more than one-kilometre jams has a double benefit for citizenship: on the one hand, to give more fluidity to circulation and to ease circulation; and on the other hand, to offer a counterbalance in the form of economic savings to users by contractors. On the recovery of jobs in payrooms, we consider it very negative that, for the proper functioning of the real economy, on which the good functioning of society depends, personal discharge is made when there are great profits, when a company is getting great benefits; but it seems to us an indecency when it comes to a concessionaire who is exploiting a public good. And the case that comes with this LNP shows that redundancies that have been made of staff are a clear decrease in the service and therefore need to be recovered. And finally, there's the fall of the peas in the truces in works as counterbalance of the disturbances caused. If the People's Party is well pleased — because we have already discussed it in this plenary session and it seems well — that once the works are finished, the fees go up because there is an improvement in service, in the same way and with the same criterion, it should seem good to you that, when there is a lack of service, you also lower the fees. When you win the company, you look good, but when you win the citizenship, it doesn't seem right to you. We have to ask ourselves why a concession has been signed guaranteeing the benefit of the concessionaire and whether the quality service is guaranteed or whether the jobs are maintained when the concessionaires assume succulent benefits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u109	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which causes doubts in citizenship and destroys institutions are corruption like that of AP-9. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. You have the floor, on behalf of the parliamentary group, author of the non-law proposal, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u111	First of all, I wanted to make a clarification about Mr. President's linguistic complaint and the People's Party as well. You tell me that Mrs. Paula Prado made a last-minute consultation with the RAE, and I want to clarify — because you are so delicate, they have very fine skin — that I did not refer to the sexual activity of the equidae when I used the word [...], I specifically referred to the figurative meaning of that word, which is equivalent to "pelots", which makes the work dirty to the superior — to the boss or to the boss. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Article 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] And I think it represents very well the submission and the vassalage with which you act on this AP-9 issue and in many other respects of the central government. In that sense I used this word, which I think is a word, in any case, common in political language... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u112	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Thank you for your clarification. It makes sense, but I asked him to take her away. [[Murmurs.]] I guess I'll take it off... because if I don't take it off, then I'll have to call it in order and I'll take it off. [[Murmurs.]] Thanks anyway for the clarification you made.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u113	Okay. Well, regarding the intervention of the People's Party, this is to continue with attention, well, it sounds a bit like this... superfluous... what? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is he retired? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I think it's a word that's used in that figurative sense that has the language, which is a communication tool that's rich, it's different. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you must understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u114	Well, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then it's okay. I ask for the withdrawal of the Journal of Sessions and I have to call the order. [[Murmurs.]] Let's move on with the debate, please. Go ahead, Mr Bará. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u115	This is unqualified, the delicacy of the People's Party... [[Murmurs.]] With regard to the question and the argument of Mr Pazos, that the matter is not worth our attention. And besides, you're worried that we report the company's profit account, the millionaire profits, the cop that they're doing every day with AP-9 and, in addition, we're defending a good service at AP-9. I think the two questions are necessary, denounce the policeman and ask for a better service. And, of course, with regard to their amendments, there is no problem in accepting them always and when they are amendments to add to these four proposals that seem absolutely reasonable, necessary and legal to the BNG. And we ask them to support them, because at the end of the day we are asking for a file to be opened, to be sanctioned for this malfunction of the highway, to be approved for a protocol of action, to consider lowering the fees on the tiles in works, demanding the concessionaire the recovery of employment and, above all, the reinforcement of the personnel of the fees. It seems absolutely reasonable to me; therefore, support this. And there's no problem in which we also add to his three measures. So I think it's a paperboard what they come to do here, which is a scrape and a slip. And besides, to accuse the opposition parties and the BNG of being against the transfer of AP-9 when we've been defending it for years, years and years, and when you've just seen it in Madrid, when you've just banned the processing of the approved law... how they have the defect and the undoing to say this! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] How dare you say that!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u117	Therefore, the BNG is opposed to the fraud, abuse, the AP-9 policy; the policy, the fraud and the abuse of abusive sins and the poor service provided by the concessionaire. And you should do the same thing and decide which side you're on, if you're on the side of the powerful...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u119	...on the company's side, on the side of friendly companies, or if they're on the side of people and in defense of collective interests. You decide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u120	I'm sorry, I didn't understand what it was.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u121	Yes, if we support the four measures proposed by BNG, we have no problem in adding the three of the People's Party to them as addition amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u122	Okay, thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece on the development of the new Map of public road passenger transport services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u123	This motion for a non-law tabled amendments to the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez; the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mr Luís Bará Torres; and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u124	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Galicia and the German Government are currently finding themselves in a complete transformation of public transport by road with the aim of increasing the quality of the service and offering greater territorial coverage, especially in rural areas. This ingent and transcendent work is done with the clear objective that citizens have competitive, efficient and useful public transport and respond to their demands and needs. This public transport is designed to ensure, and will guarantee and guarantee, equal opportunities for all citizens, regardless of the territory in which they live, promoting integration, accessibility and development throughout the territory, especially in rural areas. We are talking about legislation on rural areas and equal opportunities, and I believe that this transformation of transport will go and work on the line of expanding and equalizing the opportunities of all citizens regardless of their territory. Obviously, as has already been mentioned in this House, given the historic and traditional territorial occupation in Galicia and its dispersion, it's not an easy subject, it's a difficult issue. What makes us a more complicated problem than in other autonomous communities, but, of course, it is necessary to address its particularities. So this challenge of completely reordinating the public service and implementing these new services will also incorporate new services, such as on demand transport, which we believe can help in this objective. We talked about a motion yesterday and we were accused of announcing only wishes. I'd say they're not wishes, they're made too; they're made clear that the proposal is that 40 euros comarcal rate, they're specific facts that in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense triples and doubles the number of stops, or that the lines increase in almost all cases that are raised, doubling that number of stops. So we're talking about concretion and improvements especially for this rural world at this first stage. We were also listening to the other day's questioning, yesterday's motion and the Commission's 2nd lot of opposition criticisms, many criticisms saying that it was little deligent, and I think it's quite the opposite. They like it, and we've heard it several times, to start the story in 2009. History on this topic began before 2009. It is true that the Bipartite gentlemen do not like to remember that from 2007 to 2009 they ruled in Galicia and that the Community regulation was adopted in 2007, and it was already known that by the end of 2009 a new transport had to be prepared. It wasn't so, and the Government of the People's Party, the Government, had to make in six months a law that allowed this record time to guarantee not only that transport to rural areas but also the jobs, the nearly 5,000 jobs, which this sector occupies in Galicia. And then they said, of course, what has been done in these years until a new sentence in 2016? Well, look, during all those years he worked with services, with networks, with contracts that had some deadlines that needed to be respected with vigour concessions, he got better and couldn't make a more quiet change because there were these realities of contracts to be met. Now, with the opportunity and condition of this sentence, if it's possible to make a more silent transformation. A transformation that also takes place with a law working with diligence and planning until 2019, which will be when by the end of 2019 this new transport system has to be running, although the plan, as we said yesterday, has to be approved in twenty-one months in mid-2018. In any case, the very clear objective of the council, and that's why also in relation to some of the amendments, is that this August doesn't stay rural without those services and that the workers in this sector keep their jobs and don't stay or stay unemployed. We have to guarantee that level of quality. And besides, he's already working and he's beginning to approve some news, such as the integration of irregular school transport. It is this first pilot phase that will allow you to test some topics towards the second stage, because it will incorporate the irregular routes of continuous provision, the regulars previously established according to days and hours, which if you already know the demand, new reservation systems of the service previously made, and always using in addition to new or all the services or modes of transport, which allows buses, microbuses, taxis or the school transport itself as we talked about. Therefore, planning, roadmap plot, defined schedule, to reorder and modernize passenger transport, once a sentence allows making that more ambitious transformation of how it has been working on timely improvements to contracts and current concessions. But this isn't just a government job, it's not just social agents and businesses. That's why we present this proposal not of law, because we believe it must be an effort and a work of all. And when we say of all, we also say of the other administrations, we also say that if we urge the provincial deputies to help them, to work together not only in their implementation and planning, but also in collaboration with the maintenance of the service, which may be — you speak — a new administrative or territorial organization. There is a territorial administration that can work in smaller areas and which has the ability to help, to collaborate, and can be a key agent for this new transport in Galicia. That's why we put forward this proposal. On the other hand, already in the first stage, dialogue, participation and collaboration were broad. In this sense, we recalled yesterday those fourteen meetings with the municipalities of the areas, which were sent to 279 municipalities, of which they answered 169, more than 60% of them. And at this second stage, we understand that we must not only maintain this dialogue, this collaboration, this participation with the municipalities, which are -- as we always say -- the administrations that are closest to the citizen and who are better aware of their demands and needs and that they can also collect that work that the council did with surveys on the street, but that, of course, the municipalities can collect much of that information. And so in this bill we propose that a stable and permanent framework of dialogue be established in the second phase with the Greek municipalities so that they can continue to work and improve, regardless of whether the municipalities and associations, the collectives, the parliamentary groups themselves can make the appropriate considerations within the channels that the Union has established, from the public processes of participation and, of course, from allegations. But we understand that it is possible to give these municipalities a leading role in this second phase and to contrast how the implementation of the first phase is done, seeing the results, seeing the possibilities for improvement. And within this second phase, it gives a stable framework to municipalities and deputies, who can participate more actively or in a more stable way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Round of parliamentary groups. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u127	Mr. Fernández Prado, I have to tell you that it's very difficult for me to classify this proposal; of course, it's not a bot smoking model, it's not a bathroom style and massage either. Because I think that really, even if you don't confess it, you're worried about the revolt that's going on in the sector, because you don't have to hide that many of the companies that had all the concessions say that they were companies close to the People's Party of many rural municipalities and that now they feel betrayed by this blow that they've just been hired by counseling. This could be a counterprogramming motion that comes a little late. Of course, since the opposition has put different initiatives in Parliament these days, you are now presenting this initiative to urge the Government. Well, they've had time to urge the Government already in these months to take those measures and those initiatives for dialogue with the municipalities and the deputies, because there was no such dialogue with the municipalities and the deputies. It's not a dialogue to call them at a meeting to inform them that they're going to do something and then plant the result of that job without negotiating with the affected parties in advance. That's not dialogue, it's not participation and it's not agreement; that's taxation -- you can't call it otherwise -- that's the technique of Juan Palomo, right?; that's what you do with this theme of Galicia's Public Transport Plan. So to understand, with this first phase, because this is not the plan, this is a first phase, in which there was no participation or information and transparency. And we, of course, are not going to help bring about this outcome, this kambalache that has so serious consequences. You have directed the six studies in the areas to a number of companies — by the way, foreign companies — which have charged or will charge for this EUR 800,000; EUR 800,000 for zone studies which are a real disaster, which have numerous mistakes, as will now be demonstrated by the allegations of the municipalities, companies and all the parties concerned. They made a few meetings and in three or four months, it turns out that they put forward a proposal that, I say, they didn't negotiate it, they didn't advise her. So we're not worth that system. And now they publish it on May 30 and set a deadline of ten natural days for them to come near, for allegations to be made. This is participation?, is this dialogue? You're talking about the motion for a dialogue for the plan to be implemented in 2019. Of course, for that a long time ago. We're talking to you about this phase, this first phase, which you're imposing and which is creating a lot of alarm and a lot of indignation, because it has very serious consequences. Besides, because it's a small change, there's little change with respect to the current reality. The only change is the integration of school transport and regular transport. By the way, that already existed, that it was already being done, that it is already being done in some neighborhoods experimentally since 2007, implanted by that famous and disoriented by your two-party government, and it turns out they're now taking the idea. What happens is that in those places where you've established it's free of charge and you're going to charge 40 euros to users for already using the lines that had to be used in school transportation. Well, it has very little change and it has very serious consequences, a lot of collateral damage, both in employment and for businesses, especially companies that provide their services and are rooted and create jobs in rural areas. We are, of course, very doubted about this system, this proposal, for the unilateral annulment — as we said yesterday — of the school transport contracts, which will have consequences, it will have claims, it will have resources, it will have compensation, for the subject of subrogation of the people working in the current contracts, for the subject which is unsolved from the waivers to the concessions — you have not yet solved the waivers to those nearly six hundred lines that companies have submitted — and for the fact that they are contracts for two years that create a lot of difficulties for small businesses to compete. Because how are small companies going to make investments for a two-year contract? This is thought of for certain companies and this causes us many doubts and many suspicions when there are also high offices of the council that are now working for one of the federations of companies. We think that what they prepare here is a ballast, which has the same pattern as that macrocompetition of the Euro 121 million ambulances, which we already know how it ended, with a large company in the sector with investment funds and an ex also high office of the People's Party running that business. So it's going to a concentration, a monopoly of large companies in the field of transport as well, destroying all that business fabric and all that jobs that were generated in rural areas. It's about the loss of a thousand jobs, and not just about the precariousness of work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u129	The advisor says she's puzzled. The advisor to this reaction and the sector's response says she's puzzled. Who is puzzled, who is outraged, who is on the verge of war is the sector because of the serious consequences that this will have. And the unions have already called him off from next June 20th. Therefore, the BNG is willing to establish a way of dialogue and agree on this matter. We think the current system is obsolete, that we have to change it, but we have to do it with time, with calmness, with debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u131	...with participation and with consensus. That's why we're making a series of amendments so that this subject is handled calmly. We think August's date isn't a deadline, that we can have more time margin to actually change the model, to integrate transport, to contemplate also rail transport and other modes of natural mobility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u133	...and enrich and improve this proposal, which seems to us clearly insufficient and very harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u135	Good morning to everyone again. First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Laxe school who accompany us in this plenary which is taking place in this House. Mr. Fernández Prado, I'll explain in rural language. Look, you, for seven years, stopped working the garden -- in the same way as the transport -- and left it up. And now they want in a few months, without working on the land, without paying for it, without planting or sowing, without watering or caring for it, collecting fruit. And they assume they're going to have a good harvest. Look, any one of the people would tell you they're installed in absolute irreality of what happens. Last 24 came to this House the Counsellor to be questioned about the development of the Public Transport Plan and the new Transport Map of Galicia. In his first intervention, also in the turn of reply, he repeatedly insisted on some matters which were worth highlighting and even clarifying. He said, we're doing an intense job that takes a lot of time in the council. It's not absolutely true; I think it doesn't approach a slightest certainty. They're only recovering minimally from work and time not dedicated to transport in the last seven years. Nothing but that. The first example. He also says we work with a lot of people involved. I assure you that they are far less than they wanted to get involved, and they were vetoed, starting with the agencies and institutions that should provide reports if they hadn't relegated them to the content of Galicia's Public Transport Plan to the annex situation of Law 10/2016, of July 19, urgent measures for updating Galicia's public transport system. At that time they were vetoed and did not report on their decisions. With that decision, they also rejected, without listening to us, the contributions of the parliamentary groups by not debating their own law in this House. He then made a curious historical reminder: 2017, European Regulation; 2007, 2008 and 2009, the Bipartite did nothing; 2016, judgment of annulment of the extension of the concessions. This journey and its absences would alone deserve an intervention that I cannot afford for the time I have. One day he'll come to this House again. Just highlight the absence of the 2010 resolution of its government, the reason for the Supreme Court's judgement, and the historical void between 2009 and 2010, ruled by the People's Party, that, as I said, the work done was absolutely null. He went on to say, "We meet in a participatory process with the municipalities, the unions, the ANPAs, the transport federations, the users..." For the same intervention, I stated: "I reported the new Map of transport lines to the Fegamp, the municipalities, the ANPA, the transport federations", etc. It is striking and enlightening that in the same intervention, with the same protagonists, the counselor had used the expressions "we gather" and "report," as if it were the same, and it's not the same. That's a clear evidence that there was no dialogue, and I have faith, in addition, I am witness, that what prevailed was a monologue of order and command instead of a dialogue. Mr. Fernández Prado, I agree with your contribution and appreciation of the importance of the subject we are dealing with in the fourth paragraph of your explanatory statement, to which I give textual reading — and do not hurt myself — "Given the importance of this process of managing and planning the transport service map, and taking into account the complexity of adapting and adjusting services to the real needs of citizens, it is essential that local and provincial administrations participate and collaborate throughout the process." I agree with that argument. Okay, um...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u137	...the contribution and collaboration of local authorities in this process, but insufficient. You know perfectly well that mobility must have the range of country issues, as you know that transport has other essential actors to contribute, to compromise and to be accomplices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u139	I'm done, Mr. President. It sounds good to your proposal for agreement: to establish a framework for dialogue and collaboration, to call for active participation. But too limited and with courtesy that the Socialist Group wants to expand and dissociate through the amendment we tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u141	I'm done, Mr. President. A lot of uncertainty and questions in the sector as a whole. The Councillory and the German Government would do well from our point of view, also from the point of view of the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u143	...in replacing the monologue with dialogue and imposition by the search for agreement. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u145	Good morning. Greetings also to those who hear us up there in the audience. With the flu I've got, I'm gonna look like Raúl Fernández talking again. Mr. Fernández Prado, begin your intervention by saying that this plan will allow citizens and citizens of Greece to be guaranteed equal opportunities regardless of where they live, I don't know if it's to laugh or cry. That's right, it's being out of reality. From any ideological point of view, to say that this plan can guarantee equal opportunities is to laugh at people, and if I don't talk to rural people to see if they're told that they have the same opportunities. In fact, this inequality of opportunity, that inequality of providing services to citizens depending on where they live, is what causes the constant abandonment, aging of much of the country, of its rural population. That's what's causing people to go, precisely because you and your policies don't offer you equal opportunities. It's the other way around. You speak of what makes this difficult is the historic occupation of Galician land. It's a lie!, it's not historical the occupation of Galicia. It is the evolution of the last thirty years of 90% of our territory that makes it difficult to make a minimum transport plan. And what they should worry about is how we break that vicious circle, because, of course, there are fewer people in the villages, there are fewer people in the villages, there are fewer new people who can use public transport. And the solution is to analyze, well, because we cut in public transport. We cut it off because in the end it may be the most rational solution as you do the improvisation base, but it's not going to be a solution that reverses the evolution of the last few years of rural life: less population, less profitability services, we take out services, less possibility that population is fixed. That's what they've been doing with all of you: with public services, with public transport, with railways... they're still keeping that same cliché. I mean, it's not worth having an open school because it's only six kids, we're taking the school out; we're already making it difficult for more kids to run schools. Where is your plan to reverse this reality?, where is it? And don't talk me about planning. So much planning has allowed the public exposure period from 10 days to 30 days to the rural area to be delayed without services. What planning did you guys make? On the other hand, he complains of criticism because he's little diligent. And that's the reality. You've been seven years without doing anything. You, once again, blame the Bipartite. All right, but you said they did the first law in six months, Law 5/2009. They made this last law in three months, Law 10/2016, after the March sentence, and in three months they made a law. And, on the other hand, the first thing they did was to automatically extend them to concessionary companies for ten years, which was what the Supreme Court annulled by failing to comply with the European Regulation. Why didn't they do it when they arrived in six months the law they did in June 2016? Why didn't the renewal of a map that was out of sight? What did they do for seven years more than change four general directors and general directors in four years? Is that the evidence that there is a coherent policy and a line of action for the People's Government in transport? No, no, no, no. You know that they don't even have human resources and human capacity within the Directorate-General for Mobility to make mobility policy, they didn't worry about it. That's why they had to outsource their work to a company. And that's why now the only thing we're doing is technical and non-political, because politics would be making this framed plan within other lines to reverse this country's territorial imbalance. And you don't, they improvise. They so improvise that when he answers me about land management, he tells me that the solution of the 21st century is the provincial deputies. And all of a sudden, the People's Party, when the preliminary drafts are already on public display, brings here an initiative to create a framework for dialogue with the municipalities. And it comes to the assumption that fourteen meetings with the municipalities — I have pointed out here what you said — and some surveys to which 60% of the municipalities answered, that's a participatory process. Where is the participatory process, Mr. Fernández Prado? They're constantly improvising. Because you're worried about fixing business with businesses, nothing more. And we'll see if after this partial adjudication for two more years, if the oligopolie of transport is being formed or small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the ones that support rural employment. We guessed that better, once again, certain big businessmen will come out smiling. And you're going to deny our amendment, which is what you ask is to open a participatory process and not relegating the Galician Parliament to mere spectator, which is what you are doing with it. We asked for a study commission to be created for the year and a peak that remains to be made of the transport plan. We also ask that the plan be brought, in the course of article 142, so that we can discuss and present suggestions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u147	And we are also asking for the coordination committee to introduce the municipalities, the ANPAs and other collectives. We're asking for that, and you will surely refuse. All they want here is to come and put on a saint you've already done and can't say publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u148	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u149	Thank you very much, President. Starting with the BNG. He says we're worried about the riot in the sector. Look, we're worried about citizens, about providing services and rural. What seems to be worried about the sector is the BNG, because it's really fun to hear about defending and using the same arguments to the BNG that big companies do right now, that is, they're putting forward the speech of the big companies. That's why you're worried, we're worried because in August we're still having transportation and employment. [[Applause]] They said both you and the spokesperson of the Tide that there was no transparency, no dialogue... apart from what I've said so far, the dialogue is still open; yesterday there was even a meeting with the unions and a process of allegations is open. What's the claim process for? To contribute. By the way, they could contribute something in that process to the tide, the BNG or the PSOE if they are so concerned, as they say they have so much to contribute here in this Parliament. I think the process is open and they have a place to pose. He says there's only a few changes. Don't I understand that if there's only a few changes, he's talking about the end of the world? Do you think there are minor changes when in rural areas of Ourense or Lugo they're going to double or triple the stops and changes? They don't look like small changes to me, they look like important contributions to me. Mr Bará, I tell you the same thing you said before to my companion Peace on AP-9: we would be willing to incorporate points 3 and 4 of your amendment to reinforce this initiative if, as you said, you also support point 1 and 2 that we present in ours. It's an offer that's there, just like you did with the AP-9 proposal. The Socialist Party, the PSdeG, Mr. Fernández. He says we stop working the garden. Look, the garden when we arrived in 2009 didn't seem to be a lot, it was necessary to get the decoy but the big ones, because you didn't do anything in the two years, and they knew and knew the directive. But to say, moreover, that no one's opinion was considered, because it's still open to the opinions of everyone. If you really say — as you have read — that you agree with the importance for the country of this transport and the participation of municipalities and Members, why does your amendment expressly remove Members? Don't you want the two to rule that they participate in? expressly, because they're gone. If you really agree, support our non-law proposal. And finally, I'm done speaking of the Tide as well. This is about what we discussed yesterday but with the incorporation of the Town Councils; we appreciate the participation of the Town Councils. You have the habit of putting in my words things that I didn't say and reinterpret what you understand about deputies. I say: Deputies exist and they can help. It's not the solution to the future, I say that this new transport plan has and can contribute a lot. And it is true that this is a problem, the problem of rural and rural depopulation is perhaps one of the most important problems not only in Galicia but throughout Europe at the moment. This same approach is right now worrying about all the Spanish regions and European regions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u151	And this government, if there's one thing you're doing, is working cross-sectionally on this rural reinforcement. Last night...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u153	... already finished yesterday—we even heard the Social Policy Adviser talk about these mobile social services units, and we can and will continue to work to minimize the possible differences that may exist in some services and that can — as I said — this plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u155	...cooperating on equal opportunities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u156	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. And in the end, you accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u157	We'd accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u158	...the BNG points 3 and 4 are nothing else?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u159	We'll negotiate with them, if they support our 1 and 2 of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u160	Okay, but for now only with BNG, the other amendments are not accepted. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the abolition of the institution of the reinforcement of Members and Members and the incorporation of this position into the set of reforms of the Galician Self-Government Statute which are currently being addressed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u161	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Blocs of Wales and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u162	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. As we have announced in this battery and in this line of work that we are following from the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the various legislative chambers, and not only in this autonomous chamber, one of the central issues in the debate is precisely the institution of savings in our case of Members or Members of this House. We also pointed out in some previous initiative, in the area of anti-corruption, in the area of fraud, in the area of transparency, in the matter of good governance, ultimately in the field of greater and necessary democratic quality, of the necessary regeneration of our democratic political system, that citizenship, as we are observing, is absolutely disillusioned, totally affected by the wave of corruption that afflicts us. And this disenchantment lies in the institutions and also in us, of course, in the representatives of citizenship that we are being perceived on a daily basis as alienated from reality and general interest. As we know, Article 11.3 of our Autonomy Statute provides that "The members of the Galician Parliament shall be inviolable by the votes and opinions they issue in the exercise of their office." And during our term of office we cannot be arrested or detained for the delicious acts committed in Galician territory, except in a state of gross crime, and it is up to the High Court of Justice of Galicia to decide well, or to the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. The institution of defence, as we have stated in the explanatory statement of this initiative, really lacks material content and projects exclusively in the organic and process field, and has been justified for various reasons: among other things, to avoid political instrumentization of justice, to give the courts with greater qualification and experience the knowledge of causes with potential institutional consequences, or to ensure that judicial action meets the principles of legality and impartiality, considering that the higher judicial bodies are better, priori, conditions for guaranteeing independent action. The institution of defence is also justified in protecting the independence of the legislative body and in preventing the judge from being co-hosted by the institutional weight of popular representation. However, as has already been written profusely in the different also political-legal doctrine, at present this exception, because it is really an exception to the principle of equality before the law, it is anachronistic and inappropriate. None of the above-mentioned reasons is sufficient to justify the rupture of this essential principle of equality before the law, nor is it today proportional to the purposes that are intended to be achieved. And within the framework of a democratic state and a consolidated and mature law, in which the separation and independence of powers, including the judiciary, is guaranteed, and governed by the principles of equality before the law and effective judicial protection, well-established in Articles 14 and 24 of our Constitution, the maintenance of prerogatives such as immunity and relief is certainly questionable. The citizenry perceives this institution as an absolutely unnecessary privilege at this time that contributes to disaffectation with its representatives, with us, giving rise to a growing mistrust in institutional mechanisms to combat fraud and corruption. So we see, month after month, how the barometer of the Center for Sociological Research and Corruption puts itself in the second concern of the citizens after unemployment, and is even in an almost identical position. Nor is it common for us in the parliamentary democracies around us to reflect this supposed processal outflow with constitutional rank, and in our case with a statutory rank. Neither France nor Germany nor Italy contemplate it at that normative level. And in these issues, also relevant are the doctrinal conclusions of the Panel on Parliamentary Immunity of the World Parliamentary Organization against Corruption. Trust in the independence and professionalism of the courts and courts of all orders must begin by the citizens' own representatives in Parliament, in the various legislative chambers, which we do not cease to be public servants. And that maximum confidence in the judiciary as a whole must be demonstrated in full equality when submitting to justice, ordinary justice and natural justice. What we are demanding from this initiative is that Galicia has a normative framework in which the institution of the defence of Members and Members of this House is clearly banned, which does not happen as with any other autonomous legislative chamber, as it may be known in these weeks or months to the Murcia Regional Assembly, where the People's Party necessarily had to access — because it is no other expression — the pressure it had received in that House to debate and vote in favour of the abolition of the reinforcements because of the situation of the former President of the People's Party of the Murcia Chamber, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, for the Auditorial case or, recently, for the Punic plot. That is why we want Galicia to act preventively, not to act tow situations of corruption, charges that demand that this debate in this case of the institution of escape should take place, because when we act by reaction and not in a preventive manner precisely that debate is completely undervalued as well. Galicia, for that reason, we insist and will continue to insist that it must take all the steps necessary to move forward in a decisive way in the democratic quality of our status framework and our institutional framework. What we wouldn't like is that it had happened as in September 2016, on the occasion of a motion also of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate, in which precisely the abolition of State and legislative chambers were requested or urged to be removed, and to hear words from the debate by representatives of the People's Party calling precisely the elimination of bail as a hunt. We hope that in Galicia we have another perception of these issues, we are aware of the need to abolish this institution of saving as a measure more than necessary democratic regeneration. That is why I also insist that in this case the People's Party does not follow precisely the criteria and arguments, especially at times demolition, which it presented at the Senate in September and, on the other hand, that it learns — as it were in some way — what it had to debate and vote precisely in the Chamber of Murcia. I believe that to culminate in this brief presentation in defense of this initiative is very significant the car, precisely, of the Criminal Chamber of the National Audience of May 30 last, in which what was ventilated was precisely the way in which Mariano Rajoy had to stand as a witness. There are two sections of this car that I think are significant in what line and philosophy we should follow in our country about the separation of powers and, therefore, also equal before the law when we come to ordinary justice: First, the National Audience pointed out that Mariano Rajoy does not appear as President of the Government, but as "a Spanish citizen on account of his positions in the People's Party, in collaboration with justice and in a citizen act that is part of the democratic normality of the rule of law". And secondly, he pointed out to the National Court that the Court, the National Court, "is in the same plane as the executive's powers." I believe that in that car, precisely, the National Audience clearly sets out which guidelines should be the behavior of the legislative power and the executive power in relation to the judiciary. And we must therefore also submit ourselves to the principle of equality if we want to continue to move forward or try to strengthen a democratic social state of perfectly mature law and, at least, to the surroundings of our European countries. We hope, even though we will then examine the meaning of amendments, that this initiative is clearly supported by all groups of this House. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u164	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u165	Good morning, everyone. It's a very interesting debate that opens up the Socialist Party, but there's a part of its explanatory statement that has resulted to our group, considering the recent or most current events in the Spanish state, at least resounding. You say in the explanatory statement, and you have actually read it now in your intervention: "In the framework of a democratic state of established and mature law, in which the separation and independence of powers, in particular the judiciary, is guaranteed," and since the Nationalist Block, Galicia, we believe that the independence of the judiciary is more than an issue after various events. I've already said that it can be questioned since before, but since various events that have happened recently and that I'm going to remember: On the one hand, the manoeuvres of the Spanish Prosecutor's Office not to charge, now investigate — in the exercise of this quasi-orwellian neo-language — the former president of Murcia in the Punica case, after the appointment of Mr. Manuel Moix, today dismissed — all the people we are here know — in front of the Attorney-General's Office Anti-Corruption. Ignacio González told Eduardo Zaplana — both defendants-investigated in Operation Lezo — that name "serious" whose placement was "a part" — they said — "of control of the apparatus of the state and the media". [[Sic.]] Named Concepción Espejel, "Dear Concha" — they said — as president of the Criminal Chamber of the Spanish National Audience. That lady will preside over the same room that removed her — her and the other person — from the court that judges Gürtel for her ideological proximity to the People's Party, decoration through Maria Dolores de Cospedal, today Minister of Defense. That lady will now be responsible for coordinating the four sections of the National Audience Criminal. In short, it will decide on the courts that judge the main cases of political corruption that revolve around the financing or alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. In the second line of the front, behind Espejel, from the Appeals Chamber of the Spanish National Audience, Judge Enrique López, usual of the talks of the FAES, the Zentan of the People's Party; also part of the Gürtel by affinity with this political formation. "We have the government," said Ignacio González, "the Ministry of Justice, I don't know what and... And listen: we have a judge who is provisional; you turn it up and I tell you to see, come here, what is the square that touches him?... To a lieutenant: "To fuck a lieutenant."." Separation of powers is called! Since the Galego Nationalist Block, we believe that the fact that the Prosecutor depends on the executive power and not on the judiciary or that there is an absolutely obscene relationship, as we now see, between the party that governs and the high offices or judicial orders is the focus of the questioning or mistrust generated with regard to the institutional mechanisms of combating fraud and corruption. Corruption worries. I think all the people we're here are wise on that. Yesterday the CIS barometer even went out, and 12 points increased that concern about the previous barometers. But corruption is to put the State's Official Gazette to the benefit of the financial oligarchy and large companies in exchange for economic consideration or simply to maintain class privileges. Corruption is privatizing public services or managing natural resources to fatten business portfolios. Corruption is to leave the ministry and the Council of Ministers and heat up the chair of a board of directors in any company. We agree that people who exercise or perform parliamentary representation functions should be judged by ordinary courts, following the usual procedure as any other person, whether by civil matters or by criminal matters. But we must also remember that in Article 11.3 of the Statute, which refers to the initiative, it is not only about saving but also about inviolability — you also quote it in that statement of reasons. This is the guarantee that the people we make up this House cannot be persecuted by our ideas, by our opinions or by our vote, one of the fundamental principles on which parliamentaryism is based. That is why we have tabled a modification amendment, in which we expressly include the maintenance of that prerogative, because we are not excessively clear in the resolution part of the proposal if the objective, even if the future and before a hypothetical statistic reform that we do not know if it will come, is to completely delete Article 11.3, shade it or draft it ex novo. So we believe that, in view of this hypothetical agreement that can be made in this House today, it can be interpreted in the future, not as a guarantee of this parliamentary inviolability. We repeat: what we urge in our amendment is that it is guaranteed, because it is a guarantee, that we cannot be persecuted ideologically by our opinions or the sense of our vote. We therefore hope that they will accept our proposal. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, inviolability, immunity and defence are prerogatives associated with parliamentary status, which have as object the protection of legitimate representatives of the people in the exercise of their functions and indirectly protect the people themselves, whose freely expressed will could not be violated through inadequate use of judicial processes. It is true that recently, and as a result of the natural evolution of the Spanish democratic system itself and the guarantees associated with that system, there has been a debate on whether these prerogatives currently constitute a guarantee or a privilege. In the text of your non-law proposal, you mention the doctrinal conclusions of the Panel on Parliamentary Immunity of the World Parliamentary Organization against Corruption. And although in these conclusions there is no mention or recommendation on the figure of saving, since it limits its consideration to the inviolability figures of parliamentary immunity, I believe that some of its statements may be of interest to the debate that brings us here today. The panel, in general, recommends a review of parliamentary prerogatives for — and I quote literally — "to avoid possible abuses resulting from the loss of confidence in the population in parliamentarians, which may be affected by the lack of full understanding of the parliamentary immunity mechanism as a tool that contributes to the democratic government". To strengthen this trust, it also advises the panel to discourage the parliamentary use of freedom of expression for defamatory purposes. Similarly, it is stated what is the fundamental condition for this necessary reflection on these guarantees: the existence of a consolidated democracy in which effective separation of powers, equality before law and effective protection is guaranteed. And so it advises to maintain this strengthened protection of parliamentarians in countries where — literally — "there are doubts about the impartiality of the judicial system and the courts, or where legislation is perceived as a power dominated by an all-powerful executive". I'm sure that sounds like a speech to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group substantially agrees with the conclusions reached in that forum. And we believe that the strength of our democratic system allows us to address with full assurance a review of the status of defence without jeopardizing the essential safety of parliamentarians in order to develop their functions inherent to the condition of such. Although recent pronouncements and attitudes maintained in this House may lead us to be suspicious of the full use of judicial institutions by some member or former individual member of the judiciary, I believe that we will agree that the strength of our democratic institutions, and in particular our judicial system, is able to guarantee the safety of Members in their parliamentary activity over the punctual sectarian behaviours of some individuals, even though sometimes that sectarianism is so much that it can be frightened. But in Spain, contrary to the speech repeatedly maintained by the representatives of the new policy, it operates a fully consolidated democracy, with a regime of freedoms that can be approved to any democracy of the most advanced in the world, and which is a direct consequence of the generosity, dialogue and the search for harmony that presided over the process of Spanish transition, of which we are very proud. On these premises, Your Honor, allow you to welcome the debate on the revision of the budget. It is true that we have been waiting for you for a long time, but we are pleased to see that you are finally ready to address this issue in order to act — as you said — in advance. As early as November 2014, at a meeting held with the then Secretary-General of the Greek Socialists, with the goal of trying to reach an agreement on the prevention of corruption, the President of the Galician Union offered Mr. Besterio the possibility of bringing up positions to reform the figure of savings, at that moment receiving a loud silence and no proposal. See you today! Focusing on that proposal, we believe that the most appropriate way to address the abolition of the Greek House's enlargement would be within the framework of a reform of a state character. And in that sense, we are proposing an amendment calling on the groups represented in the General Courts to adopt an agreement that homogenizes the institution of savings in all national and autonomous chambers. Because it's important to remember that this figure affects 2,000 elected, 15,000 judges and prosecutors and more than 263,000 partial fugitives from the Armed Forces and the State's security forces and bodies. And it seems to be thought that the scope and content of the outflow is defined for these cases from a coherent approach that sets identical conditions for those who perform identical functions. Because we would not understand that the Galician Parliament should not be provided with a lower level of guarantee than any other House in Spain. And we do agree that this agreement would be incorporated into the Galician Statute as part of its reform. I do not want to forget either of the amendment tabled by the BNG, which, although I think it is a mistake of concept in misappropriation and inviolability, assumes in fact an acknowledgement of the democratic guarantees of that Spanish State, which up to very little termed "oppressor" and "not democratic". Because despite Mrs Rodil's statement, it is difficult to understand that they were willing to renounce the guarantees of parliamentary status if they did not recognize the existence of a consolidated democracy and, consequently, the kindness of that which they despectively continue to call "the 78 regime". Ladies and gentlemen, let us welcome constructive parliamentaryism, and welcome the recognition of the democratic kindnesses of the 78th regime. Let's see if today we're accompanied by luck and the tailor and we can welcome a broad agreement on the figure of the scavenger. We, of course, would like to be part of that agreement. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u168	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. At Marea it announces its vote in favour of the PSdEG proposal in relation to the declaration of the will of this House to eliminate the savings of Members and Members, without having a problem in accepting the transaction proposed by the BNG as well, insofar as we understand that it simply contributes to clarifying what has been said here, even from the People's Bank, that is, we are talking about saving rather than other institutions. It cannot be denied — we understand — that citizenship looks at shelters as an institution that favours certain people and that allows certain people close to power to be investigated and assessed by organs other than the common mortals. And that is often perceived as a privilege. This perception, even if it's just a perception, has to be reversed. It is an undeniable duty to adopt measures that put an end to that feeling of impunity which is undermining citizenship. It's not the only one, it's not the most important, either, but it's a step in the right direction. Democracy understood in its radical sense and in its profound sense, determining all just social relations, gives rise to all people's need to face in the same conditions in the application of justice, equal in law and law enforcement and before the law, but those we are public representatives not only do we want privileges for the occupied position, but we demand greater controls precisely by the occupied position. And that's what leads to us having to be particularly careful about all the institutions that have now lost their material protection content. In this case they merge into two functions of saving up to this moment, which we understand they no longer have vigil. The first one, which has not yet been discussed here - and we believe it is important to realize - is that it has to do with the very appointment of the members of the Civil and Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. As you know, in the Organic Law of the Judiciary it is established that one in every three squares of the Civil and Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia is designated by this Legislative Chamber, that is, by the Greek Parliament. This has an essential meaning in relation to the Constitution, in Article 151, when it provides for the completion of the judicial organization in our country by the High Court of Justice. Subsequent reforms, recentralization, usurpation of competences in our community and the removal of citizenship from those moments have not grounded in this institution to dignify the High Court of Justice as the highest court in Galicia. And, in any case, this provision of the number of squares relates to those functions given to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, to the importance in its role as the maximum interpretative organ of civil law itself and to this vertical position of the judiciary; civil right itself that, as you know, we do not exercise today in criminal matters. Now, the problem is that this civil right itself has not been sufficiently developed and is not criminal. At the same time, however, the outcome to which we have been subjected to the constant relationship between corruption which now stands the party that sustains political power, or alongside the command of its economic power, has given more and more importance to the other function of these rooms, which is to settle in cases of bailout. It is therefore competent to judge in cases of defence of the Civil and Criminal Chamber, which has one third of its magistrates appointed by this House. So, as long as we maintain the situation of impartiality and assume the kindness of the people who are appointed by this House, it will be the people appointed by this House who, after the case has arrived, will investigate and judge their own designations. Which introduces a shadow of doubt that it was necessary to fight, and this is the first reason why we support the suppression of this suburbs. The second reason was partially pointed out here: the defence of parliamentaryism. At the moment, historically, the overhaul was justified in guaranteeing popular representation and protecting it from whimsical reprisals or unnecessary submission and expiring judicial processes related to its activity. However, in today's day, those who have made a sprawling use of institutions are those who have devised our scenario of cases of abuse of power, of prevarication, of corruption, of envelopes or gold ingots — no matter what — In this way, savings at this moment is perceived socially as an instrument to delay the judicial causes by referring them to organs other than the so-called "ordinary" by the common people for their research and for this purpose of protecting parliamentary activity. That's why, at this point in time, we understand that lack of material sense the institution does not withstand a counter-analysis of profits and losses that justify it. So, and understanding that savings are not at this time to protect any kind of guarantee in an additional way than they would already do in themselves persistent institutions of inviolability and immunity, we understand that it must be suppressed. We do not understand the amendment by the People's Party on the need for this to be coordinated at the state level. This House is sovereign in order to agree on the situation of saving its own Members. And if we agree that the abolition of retirement does not reduce the guarantees of any kind to either and none of us, to the extent that we are citizens like the rest, there is no circumstance to subject this to coordination at the state level. On the contrary, we have the opportunity to set an example for all of us and for all of us to be equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u170	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u171	Well, I think it's comforting the tone used by the different speakers of this House and the political groups in analyzing a question that, beyond the institution, I think it has a special relevance as a message to citizenship too, and the ability of this House, of the Greek Parliament, to make its own decisions and to allow precisely not to eliminate guarantees, which is not precisely that, but to eliminate prerogatives that somehow we understand will expire. Indeed — as the voicer of the Galego Nationalist Block pointed out — one thing is real independence and another is formal independence. The formal independence of the judiciary, I think, in the institutional framework, in the constitutional bloc, is perfectly designed. But it is true that there are behaviours — we have seen these behaviors recently because of the disastrous performance of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office — that they doubt that this formal independence of powers is an absolutely real independence. If we accept, of course, — he has called it — the killing, the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, because at no time at our initiative we would like to question the inviolability of the issue of opinions or votes in the service of the office of Members or Members; it was obviously confined to the institution of retirement. But it is true that from a point of view of the legal-parliamentary technique it may be more interesting to leave this question very clear that we do not question the need to guarantee the inviolability of votes and opinions expressed in the exercise of political representation. With regard to the intervention and amendment tabled by the People's Party, let us be told by Mr Pazos that we are moving the debate to the General Courts, to Madrid, or that at some point we are betraying the debate to this House. It is precisely that we are debating this today, Mr Pazos! I think Galicia is at least Murcia, and in Murcia they had to act on the trailer. We in Galicia want to act preventively, and Galicia has the appropriate statutory framework to comply, where appropriate, with this amendment. What we ask for and insist on is that the House take as much consensus as possible a position in Galicia when we approach a statistic reform to have our position well prepared. [[Applause]] Without prejudice to the fact that we have given them, of course, a transfer to the General Courts of Galicia's position so that this question can be transferred in the context of the General Courts. In that sense, just as we accept the slaughter, the amendment of the BNG, we could accept the amendment of the People's Party whenever, of course, we accept the initiative as the first part, and as the second part, we would transfer it to the General Courts of Justice from what was decided. But the priority decision for us is to make a status decision in Galicia. And one question to finish: we don't look back, we're always looking forward — as this morning manifested our voice. And if we want a parliamentary agreement of good parliamentary technique, of good parliamentary courtesy, I think we could get a proper deal. But — I insist — we need — with that precision which I pointed out — to maintain the decisive part of the initiative as it is drafted with that precision; and, secondly, to add the addition they propose. What I would like to stress is that it is fundamental — not just for the People's Party, for any political party, what happens is that the People's Party is mostly about what we are observing — to access these kinds of initiatives. It suits the People's Party itself, suits the political system and suits the whole institutional framework, because that's what society is demanding.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u173	I just want to close, Mr President, because I think we should take a quiet look at the cartoon that El Roto publishes today, claiming the need to spread the tumor of corruption. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u174	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and two other Members, on the end of the process of the approval of the Plan for the Management of Natural Resources of Pena Trevinca and the initiation of the procedure for the declaration of that protected space as a natural park
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u175	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u176	To formulate the proposition has the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u177	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there are six natural parks in our country; three of them are in the province of Ourense: the Serra do Jurés, the Serra da Encinña da Lastra and the Serra do Invernaeiro. We believe it is fair — and it is not new — to claim that the tops of Trevinca and the texadal of Casaio are also part of our natural parks. Besides, two days ago it was World Environment Day, and we think it's very important. And let me speak of an exceptional prodigy of nature, decarnated litochan, pronounced pendant, extreme hostile climate, complex forest, origin in the tertiary. Di Gurrián, a scholar and acquaintance of this space: "It is a dream come true the power to enjoy the vision of something that was born near Earth's origins." Corrupt and collapsed trees that acquire plastic shapes, shapes that challenge gravity, incredible plastic forms tighten and round, cream survivors. Fallen trees, infested, again sprouting vicious daughters from the farthest parts of the planet. The best timber forest on the Peninsula, one of the most important in Europe, but more. It gives the impression of being in front of a living, remote being, with almost human intelligence. Some people repair in the communicative language of their roots, bridges and doors that open myths and legends to sensitivity. We need to listen to the ground. It is true that the best book of mankind is written on earth; it has been born many generations and will continue to live when we no longer live. It deserves all respect. It also has symbolic meaning, these are cult trees, temples of worship from the origins. We need to keep them, love them, take care of them. We can also learn from them, from their ability to survive in adverse conditions. His regression is an indication of the planet's deterioration. It has an excellent botanical value, it's called the magna class of nature, the botanical cathedral of the weaving, the geonatural path. Initiative, telluric, magical and mythical path, rootly transmitted from generation to generation. I'm in the way of striking contrasts. Sweeping landscape: slate bed, the planet's biggest lax, dreamy sensation!, opens the way to a sublime landscape, enticing! Historical value. It's no accident! In his inaccessible heart the city of the jungle, maquis, remnants of cassavas, meeting place, break of anti-frank guerrilla in the post-war of 36. In the path of traditional access to the hermitage of Saint Xil, medieval aeremita galego — one of the few —. Just a few hundred meters away from the remains of the Walframium mine of Valborras or the Germans—also called because it was exploited by the Nazis to extract wolframium—; yes, mineral found at one of the highest temperatures; weapons, field of work. Republicans and guerrillas, more than trees... four hundred sixty-one prisoners: Andalusians, strewn, Asturians, Madridns. Yes, it needs protection, we protect the roof of Galicia, the penalty of Surbia, the penalty of Black, the punishment of North Trevinca, the penalty of South Trevinca. More than two thousand meters high. The highest peaks in our country, the cliffs where the tessedal, the brown follo and the streams that end up making up the Casaio River, are part of a great communal estate, shared by the villages of Lardeira and Casaio, which historically enjoy it with the Marquis of Villafranca do Bierzo or the Count of Peña Ramiro. In the mid-1960s of the last century, in the outer areas of the Town Hall of Carballeda, the exploitation of canter farms from the open sky to the open sky began. All this Orensan territory, Trevinca Pen, massive mountain, is the most eastern area of Ourense, geographic vertices of three provinces: Zamora, south; León, east; and north and west, The Veiga and Carballeira de Valdeorras. The area has 28,678 hectares, which are part of the Natura 2000 network; in it is found the forest of the weaving. The ZEC area (special conservation zone) is declared and is also ZEPA zone (special protection zone of wild birds). The 400 scissors, Taxus baccata, over four hundred years old, are in the catalogue of the simple trees of Galician Union. The procedure in 2002 to develop and develop the PORN - Natural Resources Management Plan - of Pena Trevinca. Public information has not yet been approved or submitted; if there has been an invitation to tender, if there has been a payment of EUR 87,000, if there has been a recruitment and adjudication of 70% of European Union co-financing. Fifteen years have gone by to manage the management of a space protected by the most important European guidelines for the conservation of biodiversity and our ecosystem. We can talk about quitting functions. Yes, but we want above all to talk about the need for a natural park declaration, to give geographic, ethnographic, botanical, wildlife and landscape continuity of the Sanabria, delimiting the peaks, the texadal, the brown follo and the high area of the municipality of Veiga, which is also enhancing this space for sustainable tourism as a means to fix rural population. And the development of the municipality would be a complement to ensuring survival against irrational predation and fires that year after year are taking place around it. Five months ago, on December 28, the Rural Council reported on an active forest fire in the town of Carballeira de Valdeorras, in the parish of Casaio. It started at 8.40 a.m. and it was extinguished at 5.10 p.m.; affected: 36 a.m. Even though the texadal is in a wetlands, it's not unthinkable that it burns. This is something we can't afford. We speak of 4,000 years of the existence of a unique and almost planetary treasure. We can't risk it. This Parliamentary Group in Marea — I repeat: In Marea — considers that the protection of the mountain mass must be addressed and the guidelines of Law 42/2007 on corridors and eco-connectivity should be included. It urges Galician Union, therefore, to review before the limits of protected space, the precise determination of habitats of Community or priority interest, as well as a relationship of endangered species, and to complete the process of approval of PORN of Pena Trevinca. And, at the end of the PORN, the process began to declare Pena Trevinca's protected space as a natural park. And if we accept the amendments of the other groups because we believe that, above all, there is the defense of nature, the defense of our peaks and our weaving. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u179	Good morning to all and to all. Since the Galego Nationalist Block, we will support this initiative and the endless history of the continuing non-compliances and lack of will of the Galician Union with Trevinca Pen and all that is referred to in this Management Plan. And not only is it something that my group has already brought into this House at other times, it's more: this is an answer from the German Government in writing in 2013, to a question from the Nationalist Block in Wales precisely as to when that plan was going to be public and definitive. And the answer -- you've read a few lines -- says, "Now, after you've passed the participation and public information procedures and the audience to the stakeholders, the draft decree is found in the last stages of your administrative processing, and your approval is planned in the course of the current year." This is dated January 29, 2013, leaving the Vice President's Office and the Chair's Board of Directors at that time. Well, four more years have passed and we continue to add to this question. The conclusion is that the Government of the People's Party in environmental and protection matters is speeding up the proceedings when it wants them. Now we're in great fashion that -- we don't know whether to stick someone in Vigo or where -- we're sold that in two days the Atlantic islands will be UNESCO's heritage. We rejoice, may it be as soon as possible, but in time to see that the matter of the Sacred Ribeira is taking pace and agitating, too, and they agree on something about Pena Trevinca, because it has a very important level of urgency to protect itself over this space, and I'm going to explain why. We can't talk about Pena Trevinca without talking about the trash and not talking about the slates. I was initially surprised that the initiative had not mentioned it, although then her spokesperson did so in voice, and that is what our amendments are about. We are not going to fall into any anti-industrial speech or any such speech — as I suppose they will answer us —. But we must not forget that Galicia is world power in the production and export of slate and that the whole area of Valdeorras is a reference to this type of work, and that this has associated a very specific environmental problem that requires very specific treatments and that they especially affect on this territory. And he referred to En Marea's voicer in the vicinity of the weaver and its high value as a unique forest in our country; we shared that appreciation. But go anecdote to make a fincapé: for those who don't know the territory of the important one is the impact of the blackboards on this one that for any of us who are going to make a route to that forest because the reference to access is precisely a broom close by. He also spoke about En Marea's voicer from the German city and we can recall news from the July 2011 press: "Drag with the flood of Valborras and the city of the Germans only costs 9,000 euros compared to the 29,000 euros in damage". That gives an idea of the impact and that often falls into the legal waste or the protective framework is not enough. And we understand that throughout all these years there have been various actions in that territorial area that had no end to that management plan. But that does not exempt you from having a protection that has already been aided by the mere fact that these procedures have been initiated, but that one thing is theory and another was practice. We understand that the lack of forecast and planning added to years of legal vacuum has resulted in a complex situation in many respects and that there is a specific need for action on the sector. There are a lot of studies — also Germans — about how you can reverse or how you can mitigate the environmental impact, in particular, of debris; for example, that of Mr. Francisco Gutiérrez del Rey, of the University of Coruña, and so on. We understand that in addition to complying with the rules and speeding up the procedures for this framework to be completed as soon as possible because what must be done, above all, is to budget concrete actions. That's why we presented two addition amendments. A path towards planning and developing a specific plan for the recovery of these damage, with particular attention to the proximity of the weaving and the treatment of waste, which in itself the treatment and use of the slate waste is a whole door open to an economic potential which is wasted. And on the other hand, it also undertakes administrative and legal actions corresponding to restoring the effective legality in those cases in which it has been openly violated, and which is a situation to be faced. So we understand that the agreements that emanate, I hope, from this plenary session of the Greek Parliament cannot limit themselves to delimiting spaces so that then the Greek Government, which has power and which has the ability to act on them, will give up doing so, because we would simply be making environmental makeup, and we don't want to buy that tactic. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u181	Good morning. Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group agrees with this initiative. We also believe that the approval of Pena Trevinca's Natural Resources Management Plan and its declaration as a natural park is necessary to be compatible with the socio-economic development of that region, which includes municipalities that are quite different; among them, Veiga, which is — we know — a natural paradise, and Carballeda de Valdeorras, which is clearly mining territory. And precisely because of the specialties of this region and the area of Valdeorras, we believe that it is necessary to boost the regeneration of the slate debris, which is no longer used but which is in the vicinity of the protected space, in addition to fulfilling what the mining legislation says about the recovery of this kind of mine or extractive activities that have been stopped using for a long time. As in this Parliament it is also tradition to speak of the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, during its government it was also achieved that there was no wind park in that area at its time, precisely for the special protection of that region. And there has also been — as the spokesman for this initiative said — ZEPA areas (special protection zone for birds), LIC areas (places of Community interest) and there is also Nature Network. The curious thing is that, as the spokesperson for En Marea also said, there was an Order of 30 April 2002 — i.e. more than fifteen years ago — an order that took out at that time the Government of the People's Party — who was the one ruling, was Fraga the President of the Union — and the Natural Resources Management Plan of Pena Trevinca, which had at last been established — expressly — "to establish a model of harmony between human uses and the conservation of ecological processes." And that's exactly why our amendment goes. In that order it was said that natural resources needed to be ordered at that time and that is why I was talking about a proposal for a LIC zone and the designation of a special protection zone for birds was advisable. Just what was done later. Fifteen years have passed and nothing is at all, not even open for these fifteen years the process of participation. And maybe it could be because that sort of sort of plan was born ghastly, given that the councillor was someone who was perhaps equally fond of nature or nature with it, which was José Carlos del Alamo, famous for his brilliant management of mad cows in Galicia. And besides, just a few hours after the Prestige sank, José Carlos del Alamo accompanied the president of the Union, Manuel Fraga, in his hunt for the mountains of Aranjuez, and that's why he had to resign. Maybe this doesn't need any more comments, maybe the Management Plan was born sneezing because José Carlos del Alamo was sneezing; well, a counselor at Ence, very stammering he wasn't after, but yes with regard to nature. We're not going to talk about the wonder that Trevinca is sorry and the texadal because it's not necessary, anyone who knows the area, and En Marea's voicer has just done it brilliantly, but we know that conservation measures need to be established to prevent their habitats from continuing to deteriorate and also alter species. In addition, preventive measures are needed and not only the process is completed 15 years later, opening up participation of citizens of the Natural Resources Management Plan to begin the declaration of space as a natural park. But also compatible with the socio-economic development of the region, and also re-regulating what is no longer possible, which is that it would be a natural zone in a pure state. And we understand in the previous intervention of the En Marea spokesman who accepted our amendment, but we keep our amendment to be incorporated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a non-legislative proposal from the Marea-We can in which they request to declare Pena Trevinca protected space as a natural park. That's right, they also want to review the limits and determine habitats and species to protect them. When you talk about limiting all activity, of course, I don't think you're aware of what you're proposing, and it gives us, of course, some repair and some fear. A proposal of great silence which, on the one hand, seeks to ignore all the work done or does not know precisely what the current protection of this beautiful area is and which, on the other hand, is a proposal which is a major mistake, because an initiative of this transcendence would have to be supported by a great consensus, if I do not unite, at least a majority. And for that, the authors of the initiative, the Marea de Podemos Group, had to speak to the people who are in the municipalities involved, to the representatives of the neighbors and the neighbors, to the municipal corporations, to the conciliators, to the socio-economic agents, to the associations and to the mayors and mayors, who have sufficient capacity and legal and political powers to manage the resources of their municipalities. You used to say: you need to listen to the earth. And I say, and you don't think it's necessary for you to listen to the people who live there in the municipalities where you want this statement to be made? [[Applause]] We are referring to the highest point of Galicia, located east of the province of Ourense, to the mountains of Pena Trevinca, which occupy nearly twenty-five thousand hectares with three high points: punishment Trevinca, 2.127; punishment Negra, 2.123; and punishment Surbia, 2.122. It also has a protected natural space: the tescidal of Casaio, a fabulous forest with more than 300 bricks, some of Europe's largest and most important. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know and have said, Pena Trevinca is included in the Natura 2000 Network and has the following protection figures: place of Community importance, area of special protection for birds and special conservation area, declared by Decree 37/2014 of 27 March, so that special conservation zones are declared to be places of Community importance in Galicia and approved the Master Plan of the Natura 2000 Network. That plan that In Marea looks simplistic; a master resource management plan specific to all places on the Natura Network, where, of course, there is also Pena Trevinca. And it also presents for each space complete information of habitats and species and environmental assessment of their place, as well as the corresponding mapping of environmental units. It also has follow-up indicators which may lead to the need to further establish other conservation measures or to review and update existing ones. Therefore, nothing to leave functions. BNG has been attacking the blackboard sector for many years. He said some things, he failed to say it's a sector where 4,000 people work between Valdeorras and Castile-Leon. But also the BNG, colleagues — I have to say — in Valdeorras has almost no representation and less has no conchler in the specified municipalities. But if they want to keep going, they'll also lose what's left of them. Besides, he doesn't know the BNG that there's a restoration plan. And it has to be said that all blackboard companies have their own evaporated restoration project and that it's going to happen — and it doesn't happen from day to day, Mrs. Presas — as the scraps cease to be necessary. What I want to tell you is that if you had talked to mayors and mayors and neighbors and associations, you would understand that protection is enough to be compatible with other uses; uses such as sports, cultural use, tourism use or business uses as well. So, the initiatives of En Marea to me seem nice to care about our neighborhood, but go to the Town Councils and talk to the people and talk to the entities. You came here to this Parliament in the past legislation saying that they were the common people, who came to represent those below, to make policies from bottom to top. And I ask them again: are the neighbors and the neighbors, the conciergemen and the mayors or are they people from above? I really think you guys got into a fight with the bottom and the top, and I think you've been dealt with extensively in those Sésamo neighborhood programs, where they said "down" and "up." And you guys think they have absolutely nothing clear about it. [[Applause]] As they didn't talk to people either, because they would have to tell you also the limitations that this also meant to be compatible with other kinds of uses and activities, as they didn't talk when they wanted to remove the departures from the A-76 bus. I mean, you don't want us to have jobs, you don't want us to have buses to be more competitive and now they want to impose... they want to impose projects without taking the mayors into account. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I finish, concluding: I don't know if that's from their moral or intellectual superiority, so they don't talk to people, or that's the usual political hypocrisy they've been used to. We want to make it clear: total and absolute defence of the protection of the environment and our natural resources, with the necessary balance to make it compatible with other uses; institutional respect to the ability to manage the municipalities; and seeking the maximum possible consensus. And really, I would tell In Marea before I finish: I don't know what happens to En Marea with Valdeorras, but really, if they want to help us and if they don't, as the song would say, "Ay! Love you don't want me that much anymore." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u184	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u185	Mr. President, I hope you'll leave me a couple more minutes as you have left Mr. Blanco Paradelo, at least. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Well, I'll thank the Galician Nationalist Block Group. I've already said it wasn't a new proposal, we're conscious, we don't want makeup naturally. In the written proposal there are all the legal references to each of the issues that were raised, I thought it might be harder to put it here. And, of course, we did that script, and those dumplings if you invest in R+D+i, those dumplings from the canteens, the mines only if you extract 5%, you could give a lot more work even and get out to all those dumps, which actually create a landscape like Mars. And if there's a possibility of some recovery. Thank the Socialist Party of Galicia too. We really agree that there must be more protection measures and socio-economic development is important. Nobody's talking about the disappearance of 3,000 jobs from the slate, they're many and they're very important; we're just asking for protection even more and compatibility, putting a stop in the right place and avoiding an impact that can be terrifying. In fact, if the slate companies didn't move forward anymore, possibly because there's a lot of sex and then the slate has less value. But we can't be waiting for nature to do, if five months ago it got there the fire. Please, let's put all the means of protection. Then with regard to Mr. Blanco Paradela, don't I know what the problem is with you? Of course... stop it, I'm sorry. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, you think you wanted to be mayor of that area too... yes, yes, they told me, but it doesn't matter whether it's public and notorious, does it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, can we talk or not? [[Murmurs.]] Well, I'm not gonna put on... sorry, if you want to talk, talk later, okay? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give me my time. Well, if you... I'm not going in... I'm sick of disqualifications, insults. To say we have a hypocritical policy. That's all right, hello! I'm not going in there. I'm not going in there. But, please, examples of Barrio Sesame! Let's be a little more serious, ladies and gentlemen, let's be a little more congruent. What you're asking for is something that's been asking for for a long time on the part and well, and the Rural Media Council itself on April 7th in the CEO published that it's going to work precisely on the Master Plan of Use and Management of Natural Parks. You do this that you ask me to do -- I did it for sure and I'm going to tone it -- please, very well, do it participatoryly, it contains with people, with biologists, with ecologists, with people from the place, with people affected, of course also with people who are politically responsible. I am not surprised that you speak to me at all because the lady -- I don't mean wrong her name -- the current mayor has already shot at us just by taking the initiative, as if we didn't have the freedom to take consistent initiatives like this. Well, possibly — and I can't say any more — I publicly, in a press media, offered that mayor who wanted to talk to me. As an honourable Member...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u187	...he went to the place, I know the area, I talk to the people of the place, but I don't have to go every place to talk to the mayors, it's not my job. I publicly offered me if I wanted to talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u189	...at any time, anywhere, to defend the interests not only of the council, the interests of Galicia, the interests of everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u191	...the state. And finished...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u192	Thank you. It's all clear now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u193	Yesterday he spoke of the heart and heart of stone. I think there are people who don't beat up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u195	...his own heart. And, please, when you want to insult, I think twice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u197	After the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. And we started by voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Ms. Patricia Vilán. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u198	We have a transactional text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u199	Is this the text?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u200	We didn't accept that amendment but we reached an agreement and therefore there is a transaction that was reached at the very last hour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u201	I'm sorry, they made me come... isn't this? What's the deal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u202	I've got it here. It's just that we haven't passed it because we've just reached the agreement right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u203	Well, then, of course, if I haven't, I can't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u204	That's why I asked him to give me a voice to the microphone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u205	It's convenient to pass it first. But now read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u206	That's why I asked for the floor, president. I read the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u207	What happened? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please read the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u208	"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. We therefore vote with this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members, on the request of the Greek Government to the central government of the creation ex novo of seven reinforcement judges in Galicia, with the human and material means necessary to confront, in each of the major cities of Galicia, the likely flood of demands by ground clauses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u210	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís Bará, on the action to be taken by the German Government and the measures it must implement in relation to the expansion of eucalyptus plantations in Galicia. This initiative was defended by Mr Rivas. So there's a transaction. He accepted that of En Marea, the first point, and he was awaiting a transaction. Here? Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u211	The first point and the second transaction would be: "The elimination of this species on a 25-metre radius of the main sources susceptible to human exploitation."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u212	Thank you. We therefore vote with that transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the measures to be implemented in relation to the expansion of eucalyptus plantations in Galicia, in particular Eucalyptus nitens, in respect of the forecasts of the Forest Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u213	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo, on the preparation and approval of a vaccination schedule for adults. There's a transaction that makes me come in and I read: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop and approve an adult vaccination schedule for the next three months, and to contain an estimate of the economic cost of the changes on this calendar. The Government of Greece undertakes to publish on the website of the Health Council the final document or to provide a written copy of the various parliamentary groups represented in the Galician Parliament to facilitate their knowledge and follow-up, as well as to carry out all the necessary actions to ensure permanent access to vaccines included in this calendar." We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and six other Members, on the development and approval of a vaccination schedule for adults. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. Consequently, the transactional text of this non-law proposal is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u214	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, through its Mrs Chao. I was told by Parliament's secretary, who spoke by the People's Parliamentary Group, who called for a point vote, which would be the first point as drafted by the non-law proposal and the second point with the incorporation of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Do you accept that proposal? You don't accept it. [[Refusal.]] Thank you. If we do not accept it, we therefore vote as drafted with the addition amendment. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the demand to the Government of Spain to speed up the process of transferring refugees to Spain through relocation and settlement, and to comply with the commitments agreed to with the European Union on reception. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u215	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the blockades and restraints that have been taking place on the AP-9 motorway. Is the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group accepted as an addition? No, no, no, no. Well, then, we vote on how the bill is drafted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the blockades and restraints that have been taking place on the AP-9 motorway. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u216	We are now voting for the Group of the People's Parliament, through Mr Martín Fernández Prado. He stated that he accepted points 3 and 4 of the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and that a transaction was still pending. Yeah, give the floor a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u217	Yes, in the end it was not accepted by the BNG and then we can't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u218	Don't you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u219	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u220	We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece on the development of the new Map of public road passenger transport services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 20; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u221	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, defended by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. There's a transaction that makes me come up, that I read it, has two points: The first point is: "The Galician Parliament considers it necessary to abolish the institution for the saving of Members and Members, while preserving at all times that these persons cannot be persecuted by the opinions or votes cast in the exercise of their functions. This position should be incorporated into the set of reforms of the Galician Autonomy Statute which is currently being addressed." And as a second point: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to move this position to the parliamentary groups of the General Courts, so that any reform of the reinforcement of representatives in the state and autonomous legislative chambers will also be dealt with within an agreement at the state level." We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the abolition of the institution of the reinforcement of Members and Members and the incorporation of this position into the set of reforms of the Galician Self-Government Statute which are currently being addressed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u222	And finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, through her Mrs Maria Angeles Cuña Bóveda. The two amendments are accepted: that of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and two other Members, on the end of the process of the approval of the Plan for the Management of Natural Resources of Pena Trevinca and the beginning of the procedure for the declaration of that protected space as a natural park. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected. After the vote, please open the doors. We continue with the agenda item 6, interpellations. Ms Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in connection with the negotiation of a new financing model for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u223	We must wait between the counsellor because the doors are closed. [[Pause.]] Let us debate, Counsellor, the interpellation which has already been commented on. Whenever you want, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u224	Good afternoon, Counselor, welcome to the full. As you are sure you know, we are at an important time when our country has open debates that we think will be transcendental to the future. And I am very sorry — as the President of the Board said this morning — that we have a German Government that is missing on the big issues that interest our country: You're missing in relation to state investments in Galicia. It's all a lot to them. The cut of 442 million euros, and they almost tell us it's the best news this country could have. They are also missing in the debate on the modernization of our infrastructures, where there are constant State failures with the complicity of their government. We also see ourselves missing in other issues that are important to the country, such as the disappearance of the entire Greek financial system, with the sad news we knew today, where we saw the last sigh of the Greek financial bank. By the way, one theme that points out is, firstly, that the balance of the Feijóo stage in front of the Galician Board was the disappearance of the Greek financial system; secondly, that the supervisors here looked to the other side, and we will see how with abusive banking practices many Welsh and Welsh people who invested in the Banco Pastor will now be penalized, and neither the Banco de España nor the CMNV have done anything at all; and thirdly, we are also very concerned about the impact from the already specific point of view of employment, of the services that are being provided in our country or that will go through the Barrie de la Maza Foundation. I think these issues are important enough not only because a foundation is at stake doing a very important job from the point of view of scholarships, but also because they were or are taking forward the restoration work of the Arctic of Glory. The truth is, in this field, we have seen the Greek Government cross-armed, and I imagine that today they will repeat what the Government of the State has just said, which is a great news. So we feel like telling you that, of course, that is not our position and that we regret that, too in this issue, which is important, because Galicia already has a problem with regard to how they are using the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks, that a very important part — you know it perfectly — is invested out of our country and that, therefore, this increases a position of weakness, which we clearly see as the German Government is not able to make any relevant decisions, as we see each time we have or have no financial pulse in this country. And the same is true in relation to a debate that is fundamental too, as is the new model of funding for our country. There is one thing that I would at least like it to be clear and that we don't have to debate about it in other circles, and that's not a technical debate, this is an eminently political debate. Moreover, I would say that it is one of the most important political debates that you have at this time on the government table and that you have at this time on the table in Galicia. This is going to be the result of a political negotiation. Who doesn't want to see it, but the People's Party has just given us a master class during the budget negotiation of how the debate on funding systems is a political debate, because we saw how the debate on the Basque dome was not resolved with technical criteria, it was settled at a table where the Basque Government and the Central Government were sitting, right? Since then, the technique serves to adjust political decisions because it has to have that legal framework, but here we are in a decision that is eminently political. And on this subject we see a silent Government, which I would almost say has taken up the position of international observer. They get profiled and we don't have position, Galicia is absolutely missing from this debate. You know what our background is, we believe that Galicia needs more resources and that we need a self-government, a full fiscal autonomy. And the current financing model does not give us that full fiscal autonomy, we simply have a centralized, deeply centralized model, and that is also being a corset for the development of welfare services in our country, our culture, our economy, because they are depriving us of resources that this country generates and that are not eventually being reinvested in Galicia. So we defend a model of full fiscal capacity, where, adapted to Galician reality, we have the same frame as we now have the navarres and the Basques. And by the way, all parties in this country agree that it was fundamental for their economic growth and they know it's a very important basic piece to improve health, and they don't want to return it. Imagine me, Counselor, that it will be for something. In any case, there is one aspect in which, in theory, all of us in this House agree, and that can be a starting point. And that aspect, in theory, — I mean, we all agree — is that the current funding system, the system that signed Alberto Núñez Feijóo in 2009, is a very harmful system for our country, which is an unfair system and constitutes a real aggravating for Galicia. And why do we say it's an unfair system? Well, to begin with, we're paying over EUR 11,000 million in government taxes and, however, our return to essential public services, to those services that have more to do with people's quality of life, because it turns out that we have a return from the funding system in the latest data of the year 2014 around EUR 7 billion. It's an unfair system because it doesn't guarantee the funding we need for these basic services and because it also doesn't allow us to have a real self-government, financially sufficient. And besides, you know that every year the financing problems of the Autonomous Community are worsened because Galicia is getting very badly stopped with this system. With official data, we see that the provision of basic public services, i.e. health, education and protection, had between 2009 and 2014, with liquidated data and official ministerial data, a total deficit of more than €10,000 million. If we take the calculation based on cost, let's say that it was never taken as a basis in the calculation of financing the actual cost of services, but it actually went to a system that is very opaque, confusing and complex, that what is masking are political decisions. And this is a system in which Galicia has always been losing in recent years. In 1999, Galician funding was 7.59% in that financing system; in 2007, Galician funding system was 6.93%; in 2009, Galician weight fell to 6.78%; and in the last official data we have, which is the year 2014, Galician weight falls to 6.73%. With this logic, the conclusion is that, over the years, the provision of health care, education and public services has been ruined, because the system is reporting less resources and we are losing positions. This is a real nonsense and it's an obvious demonstration of how this system doesn't work and it doesn't work for our country. And the key is really what you're going to do right now is the German Government. In 2014, he had announced at that time the ministry that the process of reviewing the financing system would start, and they decided to put it in a drawer. But since 2014 until 2017, the Government of Greece has had a lot of time to try to consensualize a proposal in this Parliament, to bring us a proposal, which is the least any responsible government would have to do, and to give a serious debate on the needs that Galicia has from the point of view of the financing system, and to give a political battle so that Galicia really has a fair financing system, a financing system that we believe has to be of a nation, because Galicia is a nation, and as such it has to be recognized in the state, but above all that this state has to serve so that the Greeks and the Galicians have a better service provision and that we cover the enormous deficiencies and injustice that the current system has. In that sense, we today basically would like to see the Council of Galicia abandon the land of the common spaces, of the vagueness, because it is not of receipt — and I say this with absolute sincerity, and if it does not look at what other governments are doing in relation to this issue — that they are basically of crossed arms, without moving a finger in defense of the interests of this country and without having brought to this Parliament at this time, not a single position, nor a single concrete proposal by the Council of Galicia. In this way of proceeding, the only thing that will provoke the Government of Greece is that Galicia continues to lose with the future financing model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. You ask yourself about the policy of the German Government in connection with the negotiation of a new model of self-financing. It is not the first time, it is a matter we have discussed on several occasions — and not even for so long — in this House. But I reiterate again the position of the German Government, because for us I believe that the position of the Greek Government is coherent, responsible and we do not easily change position. We have the same thing we've had from the beginning. I reiterate once again in this parliamentary headquarters that the current system in our consideration does not meet either the demands that Galicia made or the expectations that were generated at its time. As I've seen before, the two main eeves are the growing deficits of adequacy and equity. We have said that all reports on the current model reveal that it is clearly insufficient, because while in theory it would reach 13.5% more fundamental public resources in benefits — which you also made fundamental progress — in the welfare state, for that year 2010 in relation to the base year, that — it seems to you well remember — was the year 2008, in practice income fell by 20%. That is, the increase that the initial model estimated at 13.5% in the first year was reduced by –20% two years later. And the reasons for this are that the design of the current model has not prioritized the actual costs of the services of fundamental public services, but it has been conditioned — as you also well know — by the political pact between the central government — the socialist — and the parties ruling in Catalonia. Something that even worsened, of course, by the loss of income during the economic crisis. If we add to this that the application has not responded to its objectives or expectations, we have a clearly insufficient system to meet the expenditure needs that Galicia needs, which we have had to compensate for with very different financial measures over the last few years. So I agree with you that the current system is insufficient to finance the essential public services, but I absolutely disagree on how to address the changes to achieve better funding for Galicia. Let's see the differences that we interpret between the German Government and the position of the BNG: The first was the position — which was also put forward by you in your intervention — about signing this model or not. BNG, as I've said before, tells us that he wouldn't sign the current model, but what he doesn't tell us is that if he didn't sign it, he'd have to pay back in 2010 with the income of the system — which, as I remember, and I've just moved down 20 percent over 2008 — nearly 600 million euros. And in 2011, another 1,600 million euros of negative liquidations that left the government's duty to bipartisan, of which the BNG was part. So 1,600 and 600 million more, and we'd be talking about a totally broken public farm. The German Government — as you well know — has managed to speed up the payment to 20 years and maintain the solvency of the autonomous Fairy. Nor do you say that the Government of Spain conditioned the additional funds, which were those that would in principle finance the Dependency Act, to which the Community signed this financing model. So let me tell you that in your formulation they would be downgrading the resources in principle destined for the dependency. And you also know that a lot has been said on several occasions, on many occasions in this Parliament, that the Greek Government has been increasing these resources for dependency year by year. A second point that was also advanced by you, and in which we radically disagree, is the future system. You — as you have done before — advocate for a system of economic concert, where as a counterbalance to what the General Administration of the State is doing because we would have our share. This model is not suitable for Galicia, because it is not based on financial needs, but on the capacity you said of the territory, since the payment does not depend on what the agreed autonomy brings. On the contrary, from the German Government we defend a common system, based on the definition of funding needs; a system that is very egalitarian, at least 75% of the collection goes to a common redistributive fund, while the rest of the funds have a highly redistributive component. So your model is based on a copper capacity, and the general model, which is what this government defends, in need. The Greek Government considers that for a Community with income of tax collection below the average, as in the case of Galicia, the most beneficial is the general model, which levels income according to needs. There is not a single official study that lays Galicia with a per capita income, taxable per capita base or tax collection per capita over the average, i.e. with a tax capacity higher than the average. So it would be terribly harmful to a concert system, which would involve the loss of additional resources that brings the general system closer to the leveling mechanisms that we have right now. And I believe that this is not only the position of the German Government, but there is consensus between economists and other parliamentary groups in the House that imposing a quota system would harm Galicia in at least EUR 1 billion. Besides, I suppose you'll know that the model they're defending doesn't take into account the expense of Social Security in pensions, with the affect that would have on paying the pensions of our seniors, and what message we wanted to send them in this situation. I think, and honorably convey it, Your Honor, that it would be much more useful for Galicia than the BNG had preempted the interests of the Greeks and Greeks to their ideology. The third difference is debt and taxes. The BNG, every time it goes up this rostrum, says that there is a budgetary debate and also the need to increase debt and raise taxes. The Greek Government — as you well know — strongly advocates controlling debt and lowering taxes. And the fourth and final difference I wanted to mention right now is criticism about the use of the current model. While you criticize the current model simply and simply, the Greek Government is taking advantage of the real financial capabilities and autonomy, the few communities that we can say the same thing today in the whole of Spain. And this allowed us to reach -- as this House well knows -- the biggest tax reduction in Galician history last year. What better than checking the income statements than we're all doing right now? What better are the Greeks who have zero taxes in rural areas to work and live from rural areas, and that last year there were more than 9,162 people who benefited from this situation? What about the people in Galicia who don't have to pay for being familiar with the succession system anymore? So I think we're going to follow where we were right now, offering the pact, looking for the consensus that we've already largely started with a group in the House, but we're going to act as always, firmly but with institutional loyalty. At the Conference of Presidents to which President Feijóo came — I suppose that the BNG, of course, in his position would not go — it has become very clear that he served to be there: to discuss the real needs in the review of funding; to introduce essential variables to achieve a separate piece in health, which is the one that is truly conditioning the expenditure of any autonomy; to create a group to analyze the financing of the dependency, very close also in our Autonomous Community by the very large differential we have in the dependency index; and to assume the desirability of reaching also a pact for demography, which I believe will be more common than we can reach agreements between the various positions of the House. I believe that we lay the basis for the revision of the new financing model into three indispensable principles: the actual cost of services, multilaterality — which was not the last thing — and stability. And stability doesn't mean keeping your hands crossed like a salt statue — to use a Biblical situation — but stability guarantees us a predictability of income, and also taking into account the terrible cycle that we have suffered since the year 2008 until two years ago. So, at no time have we been stopped, we've always looked for allies with other autonomous communities that match in a lot of parameters that we're developing. And I claim again to you from the BNG that they add to the consensus that I believe it is a majority right now in the House. I myself have tried to agree with you the appointment of the representative of Galicia to the Committee of Experts; I think very well. Don't turn your back on me, please; I think I know what I'm talking to so far and to whom I'm talking. So, I think we have very clear objectives: to achieve a review of the funding system, because all we want is to improve that enough, which told you that we do not agree with the current model on the volume or level of adequacy that comes up right now. But I also share with you that we are deeply in favour of asking for fairness for ourselves and others, in their variant of solidarity and also equity. So what we're proposing is the improvement in the calculation of the cost-needed indexes, because we believe that we have to weigh the aging and dispersal costs more realistically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u227	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u228	...the improvement of the specification of the financing of basic public services, the improvement of fiscal co-responsibility and institutional loyalty, and the dynamic and sustainable evolution. Thank you very much, and no more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u229	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u230	Thank you very much. Counsellor, you say you are against this system; however, who signed this system was Mr. Feijóo. Tell us it's terrible, but at the same time, tell us it's very good. I think you should clarify yourself in the Greek Government as to what your position is, because the truth is that it is always a contradiction in itself. You know perfectly well that if at that time the People's Party were to oppose this model it would have forced a new negotiation of the model. And, clearly, what Alberto Núñez Feijóo did — as he does absolutely always at all — was to pray to the interests of the PP and leave this country, because he did not defend the general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks, who were not in this model, who made us lose positions and clearly did not serve to have fair funding for our services. I would also tell them that they have to abandon this theory — which is something we are seeing as worth everything — that the blame is always on the others. You always have an scapegoat, you're never responsible for anything, and even here you're presented as victims. No, no, if the problem, Counselor, is that you don't paint anything. And since they don't paint anything or they're able to defend Galicia's interests, that's how it goes to all of us. It also seems to me that in order to have a real debate about the financing system and what a model of concert means there is a cheap demagogy like the one you just used. The truth is, it's amazing, because you know perfectly well that the financing system in the Euskadi economic concert model has nothing to do with pensions, we're talking about something else. So why introduce a variable that knows it has absolutely nothing to do with this debate? Only because you have no arguments and you have to fall into demagogy or almost say — using the word of fashion in this Parliament — in the "populism cheap", which is what you have come to do in this Parliament. Look, we want to have a fair tax, of course, yes, and that means higher incomes are going to have higher taxes. And not what you're doing, which is actually raising taxes to those Greeks and Greeks that have the least resources, which is exactly what the People's Party does, a totally unfair taxation. And I don't usually talk about private conversations, I don't normally, but you know perfectly well that the conversation you had with me wasn't to make any pacts, it was unique and exclusively to communicate to us a decision that the Greek Government had adopted. If we were good and if we weren't good too. It was exactly like that. [[Applause]] Therefore, do not come selling as a pact to impose on us, in any case, the agreements of bipartisanism between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Look, your intervention is very revealing, almost an accurate picture of what you said here a few months ago in the last interpellation there was about the financing model. And they haven't done anything in these months, no greater concretion, no proposal, just obvious. It shows us one thing: that you don't trust this country, it doesn't trust Galician possibilities and potential, because it tells us that we don't have the financial capacity to sustain health, to support education and to support public services, but we depend on a common system because, if we don't, the Greeks and the Greeks seem to live on mocha, they live from what the state gives them and not from the taxes we pay. We have very clear that the tax capacity, that the tax capacity that Galicia has is sufficient to finance the public services we have in our country. And with a model of economic concert we would have nothing more and nothing less than, at least 3,500 million euros more each year. Because the Greeks and the Greeks in 2014 — I'm sorry to say, Counsellor — paid more than 11 billion euros in taxes, and by the funding system only 7,000. And don't you tell me that Galicia's fiscal capacity is the one that comes up in that definition in the Law of the financing system, because you know that's a fake. Galician tax capacity is not just the tax yielded but it will be all the taxes we pay. And the taxes paid by the Greeks and the Greeks are more than enough not only to meet the funding needs but also to improve them in an important way. You told us you wanted to ensure that we have enough from the point of view that the system has to meet the needs it has. And I ask you, what is the real cost of providing services? Have you ever done a study on this in Galician Union? Have you done any study on what equality should be in access to services and whether there is really funding that is guaranteed? Are you going to ask the Central Government to abandon opacity and criteria that are absolutely arbitrary and that if the system — as you conceive it — is that it is paid for the real cost of services, that that is the criterion used when transferring funds? Because that would indeed be an advance, and not to follow with a household of three criteria that are always absolutely arbitrary. And you know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u232	...that does not go to the bottom of the matter and that it is really guaranteed that the actual cost of services is what the State funds. Why don't you want to give that debate? I know that you, as I am from the People's Party, have to defend that the current funding system is wonderful. They have to defend it for pure partisanism, even though they know this system is bad for this country. But by accepting that framework and that system, what you never concrete to us is exactly what you're going to defend. Because this doesn't sort out half a point in the dispersion weighting, so you have to go to a background change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u233	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u234	Tell us, Counselor, if you're going to do something or you're just going to come here disqualify the others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u236	Thank you again, Mr. President. I believe that in my first intervention, what I was trying to transfer to you was that we are very different, because the system you are proposing — which is an income-sharing system, essentially, based on capacity — and what we propose — that is a system of needs financing — are practically anti-thetical. The same way I also recognized that we had a good deal of agreement with you in the diagnosis, but that we radically disagreed on the subject of the treatment of that situation. I'm acknowledging him. No, look, please, I don't think I'm holding any under my hand. There is simply a diagnosis where we believe that the income levels we have at present are not the ones the Autonomous Community of Galicia should have. We want to be a new model but with that system of financing needs. So what we must also take into account — and you who have just introduced certain quantifications — is the way we have to approach quantitatively. There are two ways of doing so with general criteria -- I don't intend, please, to give any kind of class -- there is a criterion that could be more quantitative -- one part of it is what you've exposed here -- and there is also another qualitative part -- at a certain point also introduced by me in my first intervention -- of the following content: if it turns out that we have a per capita income, taxable bases and a tax collection under the average, very hard you can say that with similar fiscal pressure, the result will be totally different in a system than in another -- that's impossible. But, well, since we're always trying to give figures on the one hand, on the other hand, I'm going to expose to you the two quantitative methods that we have at the moment, not knowing very well -- by the way, I'm also telling you -- where the numbers that BNG handles come from, but I'm going to make an approximation, an attempt to approach. Because — as you know — if we take the official data from the State Tax Agency, in 2014 — the last one we have — it is EUR 5,473 million that we have for the various taxes — it is speaking at this time of collection, I am not talking about charging revenue, what I will talk about in a moment. If we added our tax yielded, 731 million, we would be given a total of 6,204. But we would obviously have to retain the participation of local corporations, which was 1,110 million. In total, we would have EUR 5,094 million available. In view of this, the resources that reached the funding system in 2014 were 6,385, plus 367 finalist resources, which makes a difference between some EUR 1,658 million and others. But I'm going further: according to the quantitative method, which seems to be closer to the criterion of territorially imputation of income that you handle and that it may seem quite similar to what tax balances would be — quite similar to your calculation, and now I'm going to try to quantify it, quite -- I think you're forgetting not only about income but also about expenses, but we're going to take a few courses. Because the total amount of income charged in the last year we have, 2013, without social contributions and municipal taxes — which is how the accounts should be made — gives 11,662 — certainly, practically the figure that BNG handles. It is true that we would have to discount 1,132 million fees in state agencies, which would give us an income criterion of 10,530 million euros. But if we confront those incomes with the expenses that we also have in the same study on the territorialized accounts system of the Ministry of Finance — they can be criticized or not the two different methods, the two methods that we have to do, but that's what we have right now — it turns out that there is an absolute difference in terms of the same year of EUR 6 billion, higher spending than income in Galicia. And if we discounted the central government deficit in that proportion that was applying to us, it would be about EUR 3,000 million. But if we exclude social contributions and also spending on pensions it turns out that it is –1,800 million euros. And before that we have to keep talking here, and talking, and talking, and talking, where there's no medium enough serious study to show that a quota system on the current criterion would be more beneficial than a criterion of necessity like what Galicia has. I therefore humbly believe that they should try, in defence of the common interests that we have as Greeks in this maximum process — particularly, I believe that there is no autonomy if there is no financial autonomy — to join the common interest, and to thank very much for the position of the PSdEG, with which we agree the expert of the designated by Galicia, and also the motion where clearly the principles that you do not value sufficiently of equity, full solidarity, stability, financial autonomy, institutional loyalty and coordination, and the sustainability of the model are clearly collected. I think these are two radical ways of dealing with this problem. From the German Government — humbly I say it again — we strive to fulfil and adhere to both principles and strategy. As long as you allow me to tell them they're self-exclusive. That's our interpretation. I'm done. Two considerations: And once again, from the German Government, we will work with institutional loyalty. And that has an equal biounique relationship for you, for me, for me. But also firmly, as it can't be otherwise, because we're talking about funding as favourable as possible for the Greeks. And again in this case, I appeal to you as a spokesperson for the BNG to move away from partisan attitudes. I believe that at this moment in this House no one supports a stance like you are defending right now, and that should be added...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u238	...to have among all more force to a consensus on a system or model of necessity to evolve.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u240	That's what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u241	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and Mr. José Manuel Pérez Seco of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the generational relief in the business of self-employed people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u242	Mr. Losada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, well, I will try to achieve the necessary rigour that we are used to by the members of the German Government. I don't know if I'll be able to keep that level, but of course, I'll try it with good faith and good will. In this legislation there are three relevant pillars -- and one of them has spoken right now also the councillor of Fairy -- that I think they can frame to a good extent what the economic role of self-employed workers in the community would be: The first is the theme related to the demographic issue, the aging process, and everything that has to do with the fixation of the population in those areas most affected by depopulation. I think this is one of the relevant elements. The second is the solemn statement by Mr Feijóo in the investment debate on rural legislation. It is directly related to this, but I believe that here too, in fact, we are all aware that the only way of economic development in much of the autonomous community has to be framed in this area. And the third, which has to do with you more directly, is in that mythology -- understanding that mythology always has some connection to reality -- to the enterprise, which is very good, especially if it's said in English. But in the end, when we study the composition in terms of formative age and gender of the autonomy of this autonomous community, because we undoubtedly see that, as the poet said, between reality and desire there is a deep abyss. So these are the issues: entrepreneurship, rural legislation and aging or demography. And then there is another issue in which this Member, of course, lacks rigour but perseveres with little success, which is the need for coordination between the different councils. Yesterday his cabinet colleague, the Social Policy Advisor, appeared to speak of a truly revolutionary European strategic plan in the country's socio-economic and socio-demographic future of 1.7 million euros. And he spoke especially of one part which I found interesting about the connection with his advisor, which was the Leadership project, dedicated to new entrepreneurs. I — as you always say about it — now I have practically a headbook — went to Galicia's 2015-2020 Strategic Plan to see that convergence between the Economic, Labour and Industry Council and the Social Policy Council as regards the new enterprise, and it's true again that, I guess, of expertise in research I haven't been able to find it. If I have found — and I would like you to refer to this to a good extent — the areas in which this development plan refers to self-employed people. As you well know -- I suppose -- that's 1, "Intelligent employability and growth." We always start with these surprising adjectives, because, at last, there can be clumsy growth, but almost always we all try to be smart. I am very grateful for the intellectual contribution to European policies. [[Applause]] He was absolutely unaware of it and claimed the right to literary figures. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Well, within it there is a promotion of business and business activity also dedicated to self-employed people, and within it there are priorities for action. I'm going to tell you about the plans related to these objectives that you're talking about — to maintain rigour, Counsellor, it won't be — in your Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020: In relation to the issues of self-government, basically in the Galician Sectoral Plan for Management of Business Areas, if you go to that sectoral plan or the least reference. At the Galicia Industry Competitiveness Agency 4.0, at last, we're talking, but we're going back to fiction policy, because you're fully aware that the conditions of training funding and connectivity in the territory... finally, it's equal to the production factors we take: capital, work; at last, we can use Marxist terminology or Hayek — whatever — is true of me. Any link to the productive reality of much of this country, especially that of what I was talking about in terms — let us say — of demographic difficulties and rural legislating, because absolutely disappeared, in some way. And these are the planning elements of which the Galician Strategic Plan on Autonomouss, in theory, the Galician Union speaks of. In front of this, what do we have? And now I'm going to reality -- that's part of the wish, now we're going to part of reality -- in reality we have an economy characterized by a weight of self-sufficient over the Spanish average, we're about 5.5% of the occupied in Spain, but here we are 7% of the autonomous -- point and half is a lot. And this is related — as you also know — usually to the average size of companies; in many cases we call them companies but they are individual self-employed and in other cases micro-enterprises, no longer even pemes. And you also know — and I have mentioned on many occasions in this Parliament this issue — that the average size of companies is inversely related to ease, internationalisation and ease of access to new technologies and therefore to increased productivity. So this is something we'd like you to talk about, tell us what the policies are if they exist. Because — I repeat again — they do not appear in the development plans of the Autonomous Community, or at least I did not find them in this community. We are talking — I insist — about 225,000 members of the Social Security autonomous regime. That means a lot, that means one in four or one in five, that is, between 20 and 25% of the affiliates, that is, a lot of the occupied population. 80% without employees, i.e. individual self-employed. 80% are listed on the minimum base. I know this is not an economic decision that the Government makes or conditions, but, of course, it can be an individual decision of the workers, and that the Government favors or encourages me that it would be an important line of action. Another element is the demographic aging of the autonomous. More than 30% are over 55 years old, we have the third most aging autonomous labour population in the Spanish population. With which, undoubtedly, here, the theme of generational relief plays an extremely important role. And then we have 40 percent more feminized women than in all of Spain. And we also know what female employment means; it means lower average wages, usually lower levels of qualification, usually-- yes, yes, in the case of middle and low grades, actually, yes. I know that the level of university enrolment is above all in terms of gender, of women; but in the case of self-employed, at least I haven't found positive correlation data between education and gender. Maybe they exist, but I didn't find them -- I insist. And the evolution despite this brilliant development of Galician economy we see as it is: we're going worse than the whole of Spain too. Yes, don't be a surprise, Counselor, or a surprise! — with this freedom of expression, even facial. And I'm telling you that we're going worse than the whole of Spain because, since Mr Feijóo's rule, in the whole of Spain, the number of self-employed members of the Social Security regime has fallen by 0.6% — it takes time but I give him the full data: from 3,237,814 to 3,219,961, from April to April; and in the case of Galicia, by 6.5%, that is, ten times more. So, we're going worse, or at least it's the concept that I'm looking at neighborhood sesame I have to "better" and "worst." From –0.6 to –6.5, for we're going worse. And in this context, there is an absolutely relevant economic issue: the drop in demand is still producing, because we all know that GDP is rising, but the distribution between income from work and capital is becoming more and more asymmetric. Therefore, demand is stagnant or grows less than GDP; it is an obvious fact. In products of first necessity, which is where autonomous people basically act, because with more reason, because you also know that high incomes — which is good for them — have a propensity to consume less than to save, for obvious reasons. And so that's an important problem. Another problem is cash problems and delays in payments in administrations, and financing problems. I know that the behaviour of the Board in terms of payments is better than the average, too. Hey!, here too we can apply Sésamo Barrio: the average payment period of the Galician Union is better than the average of all autonomous communities. Accepted. And then a particularly serious issue today, which is the subject of the difficulties of financing. Despite almost zero interest types, because the truth is that credit does not flow for many reasons, for bank asset cleaning processes, for financial exclusion problems that are becoming more and more serious in rural areas. Today we watch how it disappears, if you literally liquefied Banco Santander to the Popular, who was also in the press...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u245	...there are 110 municipalities where it doubles with the Santander network, and it will mean more closure of offices, less employment and, of course, an increasingly monopolistic system, or oligopolist really, which makes it more and more difficult to access the credit of those economic agents with less potential to capture it. And I didn't mean to be at all alarmist, but I think it's the scene where we move. And on this stage, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u247	...—ending, Mr. President—I'd like to know what you mean, or what you want to do, or what you're going to do with the Council of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u249	...beyond the business angels, entrepreneurship and master business of administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u251	Because reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u252	Thank you. Now answer your counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u253	...of the economy in large part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u254	He'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u255	But I have particular interest in fine-tuning the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u256	But it's already fine-tuned. Look at the clock. It's very thin. [[Laughter]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u257	Exactly the disconnection of reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u259	One minute!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u260	No, no, one minute and fifty. The clock doesn't fool. No, no, cotton's not wrong. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u261	All right, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Losada, I would like to thank you for bringing to this House the debate on entrepreneurship, and in particular on the role of self-employed people in our country, because we actually agree on the importance and priority that autonomy has for the development of our economy. It is true that the data we have in Galicia are not very different from the data we have with regard to Spain. It is true that there is a greater intensity of autonomy here with respect to the rest of Spain. But the truth is, the reality from the point of view of the X-ray that autonomy has is not very different. It's true that in the service sector here in Galicia, as in Spain, they have the greatest weight, less here in Galicia than in Spain. It's true that there's a higher presence of women, 42% compared to 34%. And it's also true that in some data, logically, behavior is also better; for example, the minimum base quote here in Galicia is 77% compared to 86% of the minimum base quote in the rest of Spain. So we're talking about an X-ray that's not very different; in some variables even with a better behaviour of Galicia than Spain. But there is no doubt that one in four workers is actually autonomous; so we're talking about a vertebrate element of our economy. It's therefore an area in which the Government has to place its priority. And that's why he knows that we're developing a specific strategy for self-employed people on the horizon of 2020, which has an budget of 160 million euros for the next four years, and that he's already had a 45% increase this year on last legislation. So, I think we have to focus on action on self-government. And that strategy is already a reality; it's not just a planning strategy, but they've already been summoned, for example, the help for the establishment as autonomous. There's also a very important help, which is for the indefinite recruitment of self-employed; a very important aspect for every time the percentage of self-employed to be higher. And also, as you know, aid is already being called for to support the creation of small-scale self-employed enterprises, which is an initiative that is essentially rural-oriented. Because, in fact, the rural environment is also a priority from the point of view of government action, and logically that must also have a reflection on the issue of self-government. And the vision that the Government has from the point of view of acting towards self-government is a cross-sectional view. Not only by the initiative of incentives from employment and therefore the creation and establishment of new self-employed people, and the indefinite recruitment of workers or the creation of small businesses, but by that action we lead to other areas of government, such as the Igape itself or the Directorate-General for Trade itself. When he was talking about the Government's Strategic Plan, he was talking about smart growth and, therefore, autonomy must, logically, have a priority action. I would tell you that, in fact, there are two ways in which this government is marking that priority, from the point of view of Igape's action, to promote that intelligent growth: one is to provide all the necessary help so that autonomouss can develop their activity, among which is also the increase in the size — and at that we agree — and, secondly, to equip the self-employed and entrepreneurs with the greatest administrative facilities to develop their activity. You know, with regard to Igape, there are different programs that we are opening to the autonomous ones, and today, for example, I can give you the data that about 45% of the projects approved by Igape in the Galicia Entrepreneur Programme are autonomous — 45% of the Galicia Entrepreneur programme — and 57% of the applications already submitted — not yet resolved, but already submitted — in the first edition of the Galicia Rural Entrepreneur Programme, are also autonomous. And from the point of view of funding, on microcredit lines, up to EUR 25,000, and lending to small businesses, 47% of the previous call was also granted to self-employed people. Therefore, autonomouss are having a role and leadership in different initiatives and aid through the Igape and its different programs — such as Galicia Enterprise or Galicia Rural Enterprise — and funding through microcredit and bonus to types of interest; I insist, autonomy is one of the main beneficiaries. And from the point of view of administrative facilities, you know that from the Entrepreneurship Act of December 2013, one of its main measures was, precisely, the general elimination of municipal licenses. This was precisely an element which is favouring, in particular, autonomous and small initiatives from an economic and business point of view. And now, within that planning of the Strategic Plan, you know that we're developing a new law of enterprise implementation, too, to continue working on agility and administrative ease, and thinking precisely about entrepreneurship and autonomy. Finally, an action from the Igape centred also on the autonomy that we understand is particularly relevant and divergent to support the initiatives of this collective. And finally, he also knows that through the Directorate-General of Commerce, the different programs are essentially oriented towards self-government. This 2020 autonomous strategy also includes new measures. On this horizon of the year 2020, we understand that the Government must develop full attention to the needs of the self-employed and the self-employed in Galicia. And that's what we're working on. To call for the expansion of the flat rate, to facilitate the implementation of new projects, we will deploy here in Galicia an autonomous bonus that for the first time will have as recipients the autonomy of more than 42 months; that is, for the first time we will support the autonomy that already has a higher seniority than that which marks the Entrepreneurship Act. We are going to develop a specific training programme for self-employed people precisely to facilitate the adaptation and challenges of new trends; we are going to work on reconciling self-employed people and, therefore, to propose the additional 16 weeks bonus of 100% of the share of social security of the person hired to reconcile; and we will also create the Office of the Self-Government as a comprehensive window to provide all the information on aid and administrative processes. And finally, within these measures, new measures to support self-employed people, we are working on a specific programme of generational relief, with which we also want to encourage business continuity, while at the same time promoting integration and the support of new self-employed people; a need that we agree with the Socialist Party of Galicia and that we believe it has to serve to further expand and further improve the programme we have already developed in the spirit of trade. We are working on a single programme that brings together and supports all the measures proposed by the sector, a practical programme, a realistic programme, with the difficulty that always entails matching supply and demand and, above all, a programme that completes what we already have, because it knows that the Government has a plan to support the transmission of enterprises at the state level, in which Igape participates, and therefore we are going to work on that programme to support relief in self-employment. This set of tools will aim to support, from a technical point of view, from an economic point of view and from a mediation point of view, so that autonomouss can have easier and easier the whole process of developing their activity. We will, therefore, enable measures in the field of services, training, also new assistance and, ultimately, a generational relief program which is a more common formula in Galicia, always preserving the legacy of our own and our own autonomy. Finally, Mr Losada, a whole range of measures that give continuity to the action of the Government in the past legislation, but new measures to strengthen the activity of the self-employed, and so that autonomouss have a whole range of measures of a cross-cutting nature, from support to employment, from support to the development of their activities, through Igape, through the Directorate-General for Trade, and also promoting training and innovation within the self-employed sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u262	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I really would call this government subprime. You know about the subprime mortgages, don't you? They took parts of credits, packed them differently, and marketed them as if they were new financial products, in theory with a high rating, but then, in practical terms, you know exactly what happened in 2008, right? The truth is, I find it hard to follow him, not because of his difficulty of expression, but because of my inability to do the same. Let's see, specific strategy for self-employed people. I'm sure it exists. I have faith, but it is also true that with the number of programs that tell us about power point, man! for they could have already told us this because they would have saved me the interpellation, and you could always come to appear to the Government's own request, which always stood better. I'm telling you. I'm doing this as PP's government manager. Anyway, you understand... One hundred and sixty million euros. I'm going to ask you immediately to tell me in writing -- to see if I'm lucky this time -- what departures, what programs... finally, where they come from. It's these small budget details that would take us to the absolute ignorant opposition to know where those 160 million euros come from, because it always helps right away in making the opposition. Then I also like that of transversality. I think this cross-sectional thing gives a lot. I'm not cross-sectional. I'm starting to feel a little weird, but I'm not cross-sectional, I must be so vertical, chain of command. So, I think little cross-sectional, right? After listening to yesterday's intervention, the social policy advisor's appearance on Thursday's enterprise in Galicia, and listen to you now, transversality is in the fourth dimension. In the usual three, I'm not or at least I can't find her. [[Applause]] "In the Igape we are opening the doors to the autonomouss." Counselor, they have been ruling since 2009, not the gates of the temple in Jerusalem. If they really wanted to open them, they were seven, eight years old, or I don't know how many it takes, to open them, because autonomy and autonomous associations complain that the doors are closed. Then they'll be opening them up, but at last open them once again, because, I repeat, they complain that they're closed and they're complaining that they have some difficulty in accessing all kinds of gross subsidies. And they complain, in addition, that the substitution of grants for credit support at a time such as the current, in financial terms, grant access to self-employed people's credit greatly hinders investment processes. They complain about it, Counselor, or at least that's what they tell me. I don't know about you, when they meet with you, they tell you. I tell you what they say to me — by the way, everything they say to me seems quite reasonable. I mean, at a time like this, when credit is actually subject to very strong restrictive processes, replacing direct subsidies with interest types, etc., which can make some sense at a time when credit flows, makes no sense at the moment and makes it extremely difficult to invest and create new jobs. So there are problems in terms of unemployment benefit, cessation of activity, pensions... I know that this part is not the competence of the Greek Government, but I think that, because they have so much strategy, so much plan and they have been opening doors for eight years, because man! It would not be wrong if they were able to have 24% or 23% of the social security affiliates of this autonomous community feeling minimally sheltered by their government. Because the truth is, the average income data and the data we don't say about retirement of the self-employed are really dramatic anymore. I have data from the average retirement of the autonomous Greeks, which is the lowest in Spain. The news is dated 28 March 2017: EUR 605 average of the self-employed. I know it's related to the contribution, but, of course, the contributions are kept to a minimum because the financing needs mainly of new investment in the business or economic activity that is one of them have objective difficulties. And they have objective difficulties undoubtedly because of financial problems, but also technological problems. We're not going to talk here... I know it's not about your negotiation, but they're important issues related to network coverage and, finally, with a lot of themes that, especially inside and with that demographic dimension of rural life, are a relevant element. And I'm leaving it to the end — I know I'm passing my time, Mr President, but six seconds — the budgetary issue. I also know that we autonomous multi-year programmes are almost all; indeed, they are almost all, right? That's why... No, few, few. He was in a trance, Counselor. Multi-annual programs in autonomous grants are either that fourth dimension or few, and runlevels are still as low as they were when programs were not multi-annual. I'm not going to talk about the Igape, which we've already said. I want to remind you that in the case of the Directorate-General for Trade, programme 751A, the budget reduction since you arrived was 50%, and within that, there were about 40 million euros not executed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u265	And I want to talk -- I don't want to talk because they won't let me, and they won't leave me because I'm out of time --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u266	No, well, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u267	Give him a tour, too, in terms of individual execution, of training courses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u268	For another day; that for another day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u269	...that I always thought they were academic courses and not undergraduates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u270	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Losada, I'm surprised you're talking to me about closed doors. I can move you that this strategy of the autonomouss that I summarized in the first intervention was a consensual strategy at the Bureau of the Autonomouss and, therefore, it is a strategy that departs precisely from meeting the demands and needs of the autonomouss. So this government is consensing to strategy, and this government, speaking of generational relief, is also consensing what measures we have to implement here in Galicia to develop a generational relief program. So it's not only open doors, it's a permanent invitation to consensualize the different measures. Indeed — and I refer to the data — it is Galicia, the autonomous community that has a greater intensity of support for self-employed people throughout Spain. That can be transferred with specific data. In fact, these 40 million euros... you talk to me about power point and I tell you about the Official Journal of Galicia, because the help for the employment of self-employed people, the help for the recruitment of self-employed for about 20 million euros, are published in the Official Journal of Galicia, and the help for the creation of small businesses is published in the Official Journal of Galicia, amounting to 2 million euros, and they are published — and there are applications for autonomy — the help for Galicia Enterprise and for Galicia Rural Entrepreneurship. We're working -- as it moved him -- on these new initiatives with the self-governing bonus, the flat rate, the aid for conciliation and also the generational program. So in the strategy of self-government, we talk about realities -- realities that are already in the Official Journal of Galicia and above all realities that try to give a concrete answer to self-government. I sincerely believe that we must follow that direction. We want to incorporate new people and therefore strengthen existing self-employment. We know that we have to continue working with the sector to facilitate the best working conditions and therefore support for conciliation, health care and risk prevention, and we know that we have to simplify and interact with self-employed people through new technologies. And all of that, of course, by facilitating that generational relief that was the subject of their interpellation with a program that came out of consensus and with a program that we can develop with our own autonomous associations. So I think we're in the right direction. I would move the Socialist Party to work together in this direction and, therefore, to have no message in Madrid and a different message here in Galicia. And, of course, when in Madrid they are not supporting the general budgets of the State, which precisely include concrete measures of support for self-employed people, I am concerned. And I would also be concerned that in that law of self-employment reforms we would not count on the support of the Socialist Party of Galicia. So in those measures that we are trying to consensualize at Spain's level with a system of higher and fairer casualties, with changes in the basis for contributions, with the reduction in the penalty in the first late payment of quota, with the bonus of 100 percent of the quota of autonomous mothers and fathers and with new deductions of both vehicle and home, I would be concerned not to count on the support of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. I hope that, of course, from here, from Galicia, we can act, act with one voice, supporting the autonomous, both nationally and, of course, autonomously. So, Your Honor, the conclusion is clear: I think we're working so that the self-employed, both in Spain and Galicia, have increasingly and more intensive support and, above all, have to open up opportunities for them. I think we're working in that direction. Of course, we believe in autonomy, we believe in its capacity, we believe in its ability to reinvent ourselves and we believe in its ability to create jobs, and therefore we understand that we have to support autonomouss when they start their business and we must also support autonomouss when they decide to take a step aside and let people with new ideas captain the project and, therefore, take steps also to the generational relief. So a conviction of this government: the importance of autonomy. We have concrete measures already in the Official Journal of Galicia, we are developing this strategy, which will include the extension of the flat rate, the development of the autonomous bond, the specific training for self-employed and also for the first time that development of the aid to conciliation. So, Mr Losada, I hope to have the opportunity to share all these initiatives and ideas and that we can make that common front between the Government and the parties of this Parliament so that we can effectively support the autonomous here, both in Galicia and also in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u272	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u273	Good afternoon. We continue the meeting with Mr Sánchez García of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García from G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to polluting industrial emissions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u274	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u275	Good afternoon. Counsellor, the inquiry was prepared on the basis of a report by Ramón Varela Díaz based on data from the State Register of Pollutant Emissions and Sources, which was published at the end of 2016. It is found that the pollution caused by the large industry is growing significantly in Galicia, and Galicia is now the fourth autonomous community in emissions to be the second. Galicia, according to the State Registry, is responsible for 15.08 % of all Spanish State emissions, and is the first in fluoride, mercury and perfluorocarbon emissions. It is the second autonomous community in the state that emits the second most carbon dioxide, the second in greenhouse gases, the second in sulphur dioxide, chlorine and acidifying substances, the third community by issuing particles to the atmosphere, carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds other than methane, arsenic and chromium; and it also occupies the fourth place in emissions of nitrogen oxides and mass heavy metals. It is also a matter of concern that, according to official data, polluting discharges to Galician water represent 10.46% of the total state, taking up the fourth position of the communities. Galicia is also the first community in the state to pour organostanic compounds and total organic carbon. While carbon dioxide in 2015 represents 15,10% of the total state, three years earlier, in 2012, it represented 12%. In three years Galicia passed from fourth to second place, significantly increasing the percentage and weight in the state. If the 32 contaminants considered the most important were selected, in 2015 there were 21 that had values higher than in 2010, and 14 more exceeded the values they had in 2007. The big industries that are responsible for these emissions are few. They're mostly multinationals, well in the electricity sector, the thermal power plants of the Bridges and Meirama, aluminum, car, oil, wood and railways. These and many other data show a specialization in Galicia of the contaminant industry, since the proportion of pollutant emissions and greenhouse gas emissions is high; that is, Galicia is 15% of the state's polluting emissions, is 15% of the state's greenhouse gas emissions. And instead, we're 5% of GDP and about 5% of the population. There is this specialization, the fruit of a colonial economy, where enclave industries are placed that leave serious impacts here, but do not leave wealth, they leave these serious environmental impacts and health that you know, and that we are concerned about, and that instead do not translate into creating wealth or employment their activities. For the Sustainability Observatory, the fight against climate change in the Spanish state is a priority to reconvert the energy sector by replacing more polluting fuels or technologies, such as coal or gas, by renewables. You announced here that you are developing the Galician Union a strategy of fighting against climate change. In the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 of the Galician Government, Galician Union, the target for 2020 is the 20% reduction in greenhouse gases since 1990. Until 2014 the decrease was approximately 5%. The rise of 2015 practically leaves us — in 2015, that is, at the beginning of 2016 — at the levels of 1990; therefore, that 20% has to be cut in four years to achieve the goal. And as we are seeing, with the weight of these large industries, these few sources of pollution, in total emissions — which is almost half, or between one third and half, each year, of the emissions of this large industry — we are wondering how this target can be achieved without having a specific plan to reduce pollution, and in this case, of greenhouse gases, for the large industry. We asked him why we don't know those lines of action in this field, yes, so specific but so important in the fight against climate change, as well as in pollution — what we'll talk about later. It is clear that neither the economic crisis nor the uninterrupted development of the wind has been sufficient for this country, Galicia, to substantially reduce its emissions in the last twenty-five years, years lost also worldwide and to put us in a dangerous situation. On the other hand, that emissions from these large industries, owned by large multinationals, have a serious impact on health and the environment is something that no one can deny. This autonomous community has an air pollution tax, which, according to Article 1, says: "In order to contribute to the regulation of the use of natural resources, and specifically the issue of pollutants, a tax on air pollution is created". Of course, it is clear that this tax created in 1996, which was intended to regularize the emission of polluting sources, does not work. And it's normal, when we know the billing that they have companies like Endesa or Gas Natural with these activities, that they emit almost half of the greenhouse gas emissions and polluting emissions, and we see, for example, that in 2015, that's the year that we refer to on this initiative, what we call the Unity of Galicia in total these activities is 4.5 million euros. Clearly, that tax does not perform the function of regulating the emission of polluting sources or much less. We believe these companies leave their impacts. And those impacts obviously don't internalize the company, we pay them all. The impact on health and the environment we all pay. And that is why we are asking this question, Counsellor, several questions — those you have in writing — in this matter. Do you think that this high production of polluting emissions is a reality that it is necessary to change, especially in proportion to what we are as a country, what does it mean to specialize in the contaminant industry? Do you think these emissions industries are taking on the environmental and health costs they cause? Do you think they're taking on those costs or are they taking off their backs so that they can bring in succulent benefits? Do you intend to change the air pollution tax to these companies? Do you plan to promote a specific plan for the progressive reduction of pollution of large industries and implement the World Health Organization guidelines for particles, since the levels of legislation are very permissive and duplicate the recommended? And one that I had not written, but that I would like to do to you — that we have presented in another interpellation — what measures do you intend to introduce into the strategy of fighting climate change specific to the big industry and emissions of these few polluting outbreaks? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u276	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u277	Good afternoon and thank you very much, President. Mr. Sánchez, from your intervention I can deduce that, indeed, you have an objective, that I share. And the Government of Galicia wants, indeed, to move forward in that absolutely necessary conversion of energy generation, leaving coal and oil to actually use renewable energies as much as possible. On the other hand, from your intervention I can only deduce is that you have the temptation to paint a sufficiently dark panorama of the situation in which Galicia finds itself as to the emissions of greenhouse gases. And I think it doesn't look like reality. I think we should, on an issue as important as this one -- of course it's very important to me -- be, first of all, rigorous when we show a photograph of our community, and then, of course, taxing. And at the beginning of my intervention, what I want to do is to be taxative, as when I make a statement like that that Galicia — not the big industries — does not exceed the limits of emissions to the atmosphere established by law. It meets these limits, and the Galician community continues today, Mr Sánchez, being below the levels of greenhouse gas emissions recorded in 1990. I do not hide it from you that, even if you comply with what is lawfully our obligation, we work to place our community within those most committed to the environment, and also, of course, by pointing — and that they do so in our companies — towards excellence. As it cannot be otherwise, from the German Government we work in this continuous way on something that is our responsibility, which is the evaluation and control, of course, of the impact on the environment, and, above all, of the impact that can especially cause industrial activity. And for that, of course, we encourage actions that can somehow correct or even minimize this incidence. The objective we are working on from this board is to make economic development — which is, of course, necessary — compatible with the strictest respect for the environment. And I thank you for asking me about the atmospheric emissions of the Welsh industry because it gives me the opportunity to clarify some questions, so as not to make more alarm than necessary, which I think after listening to it is worth clarifying. You said you were based on a report, this is Dr. Varela's report, these two sheets, where he actually comes to assess the impact on the big industry. But it's a report that the doctor himself comes to say that it's an incomplete report on the situation in which the autonomous community is located. That's the way it is. When we have to assess the situation of our autonomous community, we have to do it in a whole way, not in a biased way. The question is based on that report that speaks of a record, which is the State Register of Pollutant Source Emissions, with figures — which I am convinced you know — that they do not represent the whole of industrial activity, but they represent only the industrial activity that has passed each year — that is their assessment — a limit value of emissions. I mean, every year in these records, different industries appear and disappear depending on their emissions. In particular, today, there are 14 industries in this register. Today, it doesn't mean that next year these 14 industries are back. In fact, if we took a hand in the original study, as I said, we could say that this original study by Mr Varela is absolutely incomplete. And what is complete, the real photograph of our community, is the national inventory of emissions to the atmosphere that the Ministry has, the MAPAMA. This statistic undoubtedly counts with much wider coverage, it fits, with the real photograph of our community, because it sums up absolutely all of our community's emissions. I think it's important to evaluate that, even if you wanted to be unique and exclusively with the evaluation of the Register, it's not exactly rigorous to compare two years in particular, as you did in your intervention: the year 2012 and the year 2015. And I'm saying it's not strict because you know how many companies were in the register in 2012? Was it 10? Was it 8? Was it 9? Was it 14? Can you compare to those that were in the year 2015? Did emissions increase from 2012 to 2015? Yes. Was it because there was more industrial activity? Well, of course, I think this is what we have to assess with certain rigour. And if we take into account what the inventory says about what we all reject, that is, the photograph of our community, what that inventory shows is just the opposite of what that report shows in that particular record. And it is that our community, in particular in mercury emissions, in 2015 compared to 2012, the whole community, not the big industry, not those that exceed those emission rates, has lowered 22% of the emissions. And in the same way — by not extending with figures — we could say that all the rest of the parameters that are analyzed — CO2, nitrogen oxide, ammonia, arsenic, chromium, nickel... — in that inventory, the final photograph of our community, in all of them is below 2015 compared to 2012. And it must be mentioned expressly that in that period industrial activity has increased. I mean, we're somehow turning off economic growth, the growth of industrial activity, the emission of pollutants. I mean, we've produced more but we've put less into the atmosphere. And we're getting it through the surveillance and control we're taking from the industrial facilities. And of course, these companies obviously have not only to comply with their integrated environmental authorization but also to bet on technological improvements to meet their obligations, and, above all, to do them too much. Data from the National Environmental Emissions Inventory also contradicted Dr Varela's report on greenhouse gas emissions. And the reality in the report does not correspond to the inventory figures, which collects all the emissions from all the industries in our community. The analysis of all inventory data is clear: no greenhouse gas emissions from the German industrial sector have been increased. In contrast, greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 13.8%. Nor has it increased the weight they have in our community with respect to the national, which has also fallen. Moreover, the data available to us last year show that greenhouse gas emissions and the industries involved in emissions trading — which are not all — have dropped by almost 8%. Galicia is, together with Castela-León and the Basque Country, one of the only three greenhouse gas emissions communities that still continue below the levels of 1990. And undoubtedly one of the main drivers of this reduction of greenhouse gases experienced in our community is the decrease in emissions from the industrial sector, and obviously also from the large industry. The German Government is doing its homework so that atmospheric emissions will continue on the path they must follow, i.e. reducing. We must ensure — and we do so — that industrial installations incorporate into their production processes all those cleaner, cleaner and more modern technologies to strictly comply with environmental legislation, and that they do not exceed the limits set for each industry, as well as the rest of the requirements. The data from Galicia's breakdown of the National Environmental Emissions Inventory show that, despite — I insist — the increase experienced in recent years of industrial activity, emission levels are not increasing at the same rate. We want to keep working on this line so we can reduce emission levels to where technology allows us. That's, of course, our goal. And since it can't be otherwise, the industries located in Galicia are already assuming those costs associated with the impact that their activity has on the environment; and, above all, the functioning of these industrial facilities that is directly linked to strict compliance with the emission limit values. If they hadn't taken up the industries these investments to improve their facilities, to comply with their integrated environmental authorisation, of course these industries would have to close them. Moreover, since the German Government we have other complementary instruments — as you said — such as the atmospheric pollution tax, which I would like to remind you that, although it dates back to 1995, it is not a tax that is born with a mere mere collection target, or much less. But he does intend to get companies that have it to take anti-contamination measures in a short time. And, indeed, we are working on the development of the Strategy for Combating Climate Change, of which I shall realise, if I may, at the second end of the replica, because I have now run out of time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u278	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u279	Here are some who are the owners of rigor and others who are not. Here, having the People's Party hat, you're already the owner of rigour. Well, Professor Ramón Varela Díaz has no rigor when he does this study. No, no, good reasoning what you just did, good reasoning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The value of this study, Counselor, is that it's focused on the big industry. And the large Welsh industry is the cause of 15% of pollutant emissions and greenhouse gases from all over the state, 15%. And it turns out, when all industrial emissions, small and medium-sized industries, are added, we go down the escalafon. I mean, there are some that we're doing our homework, that we're contributing to the fight against climate change and against pollution, and there are others that, instead, comparatively, go up the emissions. I mean, if there's about 30 million tons of CO2 emissions and the big industries are responsible for 14 million, it's going to be a specific issue to study, Counsellor. Isn't that right? Or lack of rigour? Don't these big industries issue 14 million tons? Yes, according to Ramón Varela's study, and yes, according to official state data. And then you, for the others, have duties; for the great industry, free bar. Are you saying that future investments in Endesa — and are you looking forward to seeing if Gas Natural — to comply with the European directive is to take on environmental costs? That's not assuming environmental costs, Counselor, because despite these investments they're going to continue to pollute. And we're going to assume environmental costs and health costs for people. Endesa's investments are for profit, as is logical in any entrepreneur. It's investments for the company, that's not taking the environmental cost. And so far what's happened? Because those investments to comply with the directive aren't made, they're still to be seen. And they have a limit up to 2020 to make those investments, don't they? Then, in the meantime, we will continue to suffer the contamination of certain outbreaks. And you didn't shut off, Counsellor, the greenhouse gas emissions of economic growth. I'm telling you, Galicia in these years has not ascended the escalafone in spite of the wealth in the state. No, we're down even with the average state GDP. And we did, however, raise the emissions in 2015. I didn't say that more greenhouse gases had been emitted than in 1990, only reduced by less than 5% at the end of 2015. I asked him how we were going to make it to 2020 with a 20% reduction, which is what makes the Galician Union Strategic Plan. He hasn't answered anything about how they've planned to do. If up to now, in all these years — including those of the economic crisis, which supposedly reduce economic activity — it has not been done, how will they do in three or four years to reach 20%? You also talked about the end of coal. You guys come here and drop an argument. If you agree with us on the goal of the end of coal, tell us what you intend to do. What's he planning on doing? I didn't talk about the end of the coal. You came and said, "We agree to walk towards the end of the coal." What's he planning on doing to finish the coal? What we now know is that we export one third of the energy that is produced here, practically coincident with what the thermal power plants of the Bridges and Meirama produce. And that these thermal power stations, in principle, are going to continue working until 2030, so they're going to continue there. You tell me -- because it talks about the end of the coal and it's located there the coal, which is there, in Galicia -- what they've planned to do. Did you plan to do something about those thermal power stations? Or did they plan to start working after 2030? I mean, I've come here to ask you some very specific questions that have not been answered; i.e., what you've been planning on doing to Together to reduce polluting emissions. You can say what you want, but what you represent emissions in Galicia doesn't compare with other areas. If you want to be honest, tell me, on such a fundamental issue that it represents a third, at least — or more — of greenhouse gas emissions, what do you intend to do specifically to the Galician Union? And as for the air pollution tax, I didn't say I was in trouble. I just read article 1, which says I had air pollution emissions as a regular, regular object. Did you do that, Counselor? With four and a half million, do you think these industries are going to think they're polluting or not polluting? I didn't say he was a reporter. Furthermore, the allocation of that tax is for environmental actions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u280	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u281	...for measures to protect natural resources. I know it's for that, it's not trouble collection. But do you comply with the objective of this tax? Please tell me, if you're talking about the end of the coal, which you've spoken of, what you're going to do specifically. Because we're very interested in listening to her. And if you're talking about 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gases -- I'm ending up -- how are we going to do if we're going to make almost no progress so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u282	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close this interrogation. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u283	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I begin this second round by saying that nothing further than my intention to tell this professor of biology, Mr. Varela, who is short of rigour, or much less. Because, in fact, in his own report he says that this is a biased report and that, indeed, it is not complete. And therefore the lack of rigour, in any case, can be left to the one who interprets this report. I say it because I have even underlined it, and therefore I say again that the lack of rigour, Your Honor — with all due respect — is in any case its interpretation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, from the photograph of Galicia, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just from the big industry. It's just from the big industry, Mr. Anton. I don't think the interpellation gives us a dialogue we might like to have, but it's not the question. Similarly, I'm not here to defend the action of big industries, not even small industries. I'm here to defend the government's action. Because what I have of course is that we will be inflexible to all industries if they do not comply with their emissions in this case, with regard to the environment and with respect to the enforcement of the existing environmental legislation, which is what I have left. And I'm starting this intervention again with the sentence of the first part. And it's just that, despite the photograph of our community that you want to leave on the table, as you almost always do, that's that stormy picture, Galicia today, as far as greenhouse gas emissions are concerned, it's still in compliance and it's within the limits of greenhouse gas emissions. I mean, there's no sanction file in any of our community's industries for non-compliance with gas emissions. That does not mean that, of course, we are working to get those limits down and we can achieve that goal that we still have to meet by approaching that 20% reduction with regard to the 1990 data, but, of course, being serious and not trying to draw an idyllic world — as you seem to be from an industrial activity that is absolutely harmless to the environment —. [[Applause]] Nor is industrial activity harmless for the medium or man's activity. And, therefore, indeed, what we have to do from the Administration is to keep moving forward and drawing that roadmap that does not exist today — does not exist in Galicia, does not exist in Spain, does not exist in any other community — which is the Strategy of Combating Climate Change, where today we are working and where, indeed, the big industry will have an important and meaningful part. You're talking only about big industries, you don't want to fix Galicia's photograph. I don't know what you have with all the big industries. You bother Citroën, you bother Reganosa, you bother Endesa, you trouble everything that means prosperity. I know you're the enemy of the industry, I know you're the enemy of the company. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, of course, that's not my problem. My problem is to ensure that they all have to comply with environmental legislation. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, in fact, we want to move forward in the conversion of energy generation into our community and in the use of renewable energy. Yes, sir, we want to move forward on that path, which is the only one where it seemed that we could look like something to ourselves, but I can see that neither with those. And actually, it's the generation of our autonomous community as far as coal-based energy... If you let me talk, I'd really appreciate it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Unless you don't want to listen. If you don't want to hear the answer, I feel the same way, and you're done. Well, what I wanted to tell you is that, in fact, the energy generation in our community up to now is 38% from coal and oil. And, in fact, that's what we want to change to try to generate electricity in our community from renewable energy. And we have to bear in mind that these great generators that you seem to oppose, as Endesa is, as Meirama is, all those great industries that cause you allergy, all these, indeed, that are using coal to the present day, have also suffered the situation of climate change. Because it must be borne in mind that it is not the same thing to generate energy in drought periods, to generate energy in intense cold periods, as we had in winter, that in other periods of stability. And so there was actually more electricity consumption in those periods. Nevertheless, we have recently brought to the Council of the Union a report of all the measures we have taken since the Council of Galicia from 2012 to 2015 — measures that were 103, with a budgetary commitment, at that time of 148 million euros — precisely to try to fight practically against climate change. And, indeed, we will now advance in the drafting of this Welsh Strategy against Climate Change, which, as I said to you, is the first in the community, which will involve all the departments of the Galician Union and also the rest of the administrations, and is the first to be presented before the state, which has the obligation — for this is what the European Union says — to draw up for the coming year its strategy of fighting against climate change. And there — I repeat, Mr Sánchez — will also play a leading role — obviously so — in the great industry of our autonomous community. What I can tell you is that today we have dropped emissions to the atmosphere of twenty-seven years ago, thus contributing to the commitment to reducing emissions that has marked the European Union to all the Member States. We are working to minimize the impact of industrial activity as much as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u284	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u285	And, as I said, I am not going to defend industrial activity — and they are defending themselves. If I defend that the Council of Galicia is vigilant, and will be inflexible with all those industries, large or small, which do not comply with the current environmental and emissions legislation. But, Mr. Sánchez, when I talk about rigour, if you want to show a photograph of Galicia, you really show it and not a box. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u286	Thank you, Counselor. We moved on to the eighth point of the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. Changes in the agenda have already been commented on. Question by Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Juan José Merlo Lorenzo of the G.P. of In Marea, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in the face of the limited investment planned in the general budgets of the State for the dredging of the Burgo River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u287	Question by Mrs Carmen Santos, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u288	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to greet the representatives of the Platform in defense of Burgo's creek and also the confrere workers. I was really counting on Mrs. Quintana here, but I'm going to have to ask you, because, above all, I was going to focus on the orientation of... obviously, because the theme of Burgo's laugh, of what we've been asking you, is above all a question of employment, in addition to an issue of the environment and public health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, above all, knowing the data from the CIS — the last survey — that we heard yesterday, where the greatest concern for citizens and citizens of employment remains, and, secondly, already weighing his heels, corruption, because we believe it is very important to ask questions of clear cases about how the Council is managing employment issues; and, in this case, in the sea sector, what is directly related to the Burgo laugh. We see that Galicia has already lost 13.5% of its sea-related jobs since you run, and no more than 5,000 people in nine years of membership of the social security system. And here we see the clear example of this mismanagement, which is Burgo's laugh, a laugh that in the 1970s was giving more than 2,000 jobs, directly and indirectly, and that even now they are reduced to only 90 and in free fall. The situation of laughter — you will also know, because it is part of your competence — is extremely delicate. It is true that the situation of the river is partly inherited by the works and the fillings that have generated the accumulation of mud, and that has become worse by the fecal waters of the populations of the river — although they are now more controlled — and the spills of the prey of Cecebre, where they add to the accumulation of organic matter and clay. The scarce flow of the Mero River and the new orography of the river after the works prevent the naturally removing the mud. And what does this generate? For workers can only faenen in 18% of the areas destined for shellfish and in addition to high marine mortality, especially the thin plum, which, in addition to being a much more delicate species with a poor quality of water, is also the highest commercial value and on which these workers directly depend to have enough income to pay as simple things as their social security. Four years ago the Burgo River was visited by several MEPs. And four years later, despite a report in which the Committee on Petitions urged the authorities of the Spanish State and the Greeks to carry out an integral regeneration plan of the river, we see that the situation is not only the same, but is worse, that there are a few muds of 1,70 meters thick. Mr. Rajoy — he is the president of the government and his party, although they now repudiate him a little — promised these neighbors, in the face of their protests and the situation, a bill for cleaning the river cost 46.3 million euros, and they would be 400 jobs. That's what he promised them. We see that state budgets reserve a joke game...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u289	Please put the question to you. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u290	I just had to explain why my question was to Mrs. Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u291	No, no, but you know what mechanics is like. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u292	Well, they're going for 1 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u293	No, no, ask the question. What's the question?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u294	Mr. Santalices, I hope he'll be as rigorous in the times of all the people who intervene, because he doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u295	No, I'm sorry, but it's just that, Mrs. Santos, I'm not going to explain to you what the mechanics of this is. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u296	In view of the fact that neither the Minister of the Environment — her counterpart in the State — knew of deadlines or any of this, apart from the small amount, which she has planned to do to the Council of Galicia having all the technical reports...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u297	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u298	...sufficient and necessary in the face of this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Your time is up. Thank you. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u300	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Santos, I'm sorry if I didn't count on my presence. Allow me also that especially health care to confrere workers and the people who come from the city of Coruña to hear this answer. Home!, before starting to talk about the important, which is the laugh of Burgo, listen to you about employment and, in particular, about the problems of the employment of the city of Coruña in particular, when it is the second city of all Galicia that has the worst job indicators after Galicia grows in employment, after Galicia diminishes unemployment, and that The Coruña is the champion and is in the Champion League of the employment generation, because it is, at least, dramatic ; above all, considering who governs in the city of Coruña. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, if you want to talk about employment, I just remind you that today the unemployment in the city of Coruña is greater than two years ago and at the same time as in 2011. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But returning to the important — because they are here, with regard to the people who accompany me, of the Burgo River — see, if there was a government and political formation committed to the Burgo River for years now, indeed, that is the People's Party, and for years now. And I have to make history because this is important, especially to get to know the people who are here. It's true that there's a lot of pressure and there's a lot of pressure on the stream, pressure from the municipalities, pressure from the industries. It is true that we were thrown out of the European Union to take account of and take action. But it is also true that they did, and that they were made thanks to the commitment of the Government, the People's Party, the State and the Government, the People's Party, to the Council of Galicia. And today they have been invested in this line by express decision of the People's Party 100 million euros just to clean up the stream — for sanitation, not for dredging; for sanitation, which is our competition. And in fact, the result of that commitment — and I can recognize it, and I recognize it, that we have had a shot of ears — today — and they know well — the situation of the shellfish has changed, since in 2007 there were all the seafood banks classified as zone C and today they are classified as zone B. And we have to keep investing in that creek. My commitment, nothing more to achieving this responsibility, was precisely to make it available to that river — and therefore to the seafarers and all those who enjoyed it — 6 million euros in two investments that were reflected in a sanitation plan that today is in work; two investments, one in works and another on the verge of starting the works, which will be a reality in 2018. These 100 million euros, indeed, have to do with an EDAR — an investment of 80 million euros from which the Galician Union put 20 million euros and the state put the rest, which, of course, was committed by the Government of the People's Party in 2004, I am going back to it. EDAR was the one that directly affected the quality of the water and the sanitation of that stream. And today, actually, they're classified as zone B. Look, you're talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u301	Thank you. Your time is up, Counselor. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u302	[...] that wants to divert attention to the responsibilities of the Board by speaking of a council, which here has nothing to do with campaigning. But the case is that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Aquaculture and Food commissioned, through the Coastal Demarcation, a report to Cedex - Centre for Studies and Experimentation of Public Works - a report on the possibilities of dredging. And it was determined in the report that it was not only suitable but feasible. This was in 2012 and this report showed that the maximum date of auction of the dredging was 2016. Of course, of course it's not enough with the dredging, we totally agree. On 22 October 2013 the process of requesting the environmental impact assessment of the Burgo River Sanitation Project begins, and it is such its commitment that, after having several contributions and allegations from these independent bodies — paid for by all, and doing very well their work — it brings here several reports on the allegations with regard to this project that are signed in 2013, in December, by people so suspicious of being part of the CSIC people, the Ministry of Science and Innovation, and as allegations hanging from the Campus do well with experts and researchers from the University of Vigo and the IEO, where they make it very clear that it is urgent in 2013 that the dredge of the Burgo River and also, of course, the full recovery and sanitation of the Burgo River for reasons of employment, environment and public health. And they have absolutely typified everything that needs to be done. What do we see, though? That the People's Party doesn't know what you're waiting for. He approves a budget, but we're still in no time to make the dredging of the river, we're still losing our jobs, it's still deteriorating the Burgo's stream. And they spend time with excuses, dwindling the partridge — as you always do — and talking to other people and blaming others. But the case is that they have very complete reports that recommend and demand the urgency of recovering the Burgo's laugh, in the first term, with the dredging and, of course, with the actions relevant to the recovery of the stream.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u303	Thank you, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u304	So explain to those up there why they don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Santos, your time is up. Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u306	Well, see if I have time for this second intervention. First of all, and concretely, we seem to move forward and the sanitation plan already has nothing to do with the dredging. That's important now. This sanitation plan, which was approved in 2011, has 13 actions. Two of them — the last — have already fully ratified the commitment of the Government of Galicia. I mean, the Galician Union has nothing else to do with sanitation -- and I'm talking about debugging -- in the Burgo stream. We've done it. I suppose, as you ask the State, you will also ask the neighbouring municipalities — who have the rest of the performances; in particular, 11 — that is, the Crown, Culleredo, Oleiros and Cambre, about the kind of performances that they had done there. Because that plan, Mrs. Santos, is not laying down duties for the Galician Union, assigning duties to the Galician Union, and also assigning duties to the municipalities. I say that this belligerence in asking you also will have it in the full of the rest of the Town Councils. For the part of Galician Union, what I'm clear is that we do. On the other hand, Your Honor, that you now come to ask me for a very important project, such as the dredging of funds — state exclusive competence — to me very well; and to say, "they already have the budget approved and they have there painted a money, which I recognize is little, that it is 1 million euros" — that is what you say —... Sorry but no, we have no budget! And if it were for you, we wouldn't have. That the budget is not approved, Your Honor! We don't have a budget! [[Murmurs.]] There's not even 1 million, not 2 million... Your Honor, they have to know the truth. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] There's not one million or two or three. There isn't! And we still have the chance to... Because it cost, eh! Arranged to approve the budget cost. And obviously those with government responsibilities we know that this figure -- even though I'm with you -- is a small figure to be able to cope with this 46 million euro project -- although it has been painted since now, from now on, it would be virtually impossible to execute it. That doesn't mean we're not committed to going forward. That doesn't mean that I myself, at the last meeting I held with the state secretary, who was just a few weeks ago, had not specifically asked him for the allegations to be solved by now, and that he had immediately put the funding needed to start that dredging, which is important and which must be done, of course, in consensus, collaboration and coordination with the municipalities and also, of course, with the Council of Galicia. So I specifically asked him to convene a work table where those who have something to say — and above all, most importantly, something to do — we were sitting. I hope that this is a reality as soon as possible, not only in the answer of the allegations, which, indeed, must be already, but also in the creation of that table where we have to be the ones we have much to say and do, but, above all, what to do, which are the four councils. Because it's not for nothing, but the pressure is not from the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u307	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u308	The pressure on the creek is from the Town Councils, I remind you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u309	Thank you. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the modification of the criteria for access to support aid to the post-doctoral training stage in the universities of the SUG established in the Order of 11 April 2017, joint of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination and the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u310	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today my group is asking you, Mr. Rodríguez, for a decision that has been taken by the Education Council and will leave many researchers in our country drawn. In particular, all those investigators — I say — were licensed or graduated before the year 2006 and are doctors. Because, according to the law that regulates the summoning of post-doctoral aid, these people can't compete with them. And they can't do it for a decision that we haven't just understood — I have to go ahead with it — and that we expect you to try to explain it to us now. That order sets a barrier to a titration that has nothing to do with the possibility of accessing the research career. Because, as you know -- and you know it because it's professionally linked to the university itself -- the degree or degree doesn't enable a person to enter a post-doctoral contract, so what it takes is to have a doctorate. In this sense, the decision of its council to establish an exclusion does not, from any point of view, meet an academic approach or a scientific criterion, but rather entails a decision, from our point of view, absolutely discriminatory, absolutely arbitrary and, in addition, contravene the European Charter of the researcher and the recommendations it made in respect of the European Commission in 2005, where two questions are clearly stated — in addition to others, but two questions in which it reaches us —: that investigators who receive assistance, funding or are hired to carry out their research cannot be discriminated against, among other matters, by their age, by their social status or by their economic condition; and, in the latter, that employers or researchers in this case, as any other public administration, must ensure that the interruptions of the career or the chronological variations of the curriculum are not penalized but considered as part of the professional evolution of the person. I'm going to put a very specific but rather descriptive case of the reality we have in the country: a person licensed before 2006 and with a deposited and defended thesis just a year and a half ago, emigranted, professor at the State University of Ecuador, now excluded from postdoctoral aid; advice that, among other matters, also points out that their mission is to facilitate the return of investigators, facilitate that return and, in addition, ensure the incorporation of more personal investigators into the Greek R & D+i system. That's what makes the order. That is why we ask you, Counsellor, if you will be removed, as you have also claimed, researchers and researchers from our country through a repositioning remedy, that requirement to compete with post-doctoral aid which, we repeat, is discriminatory and absolutely exclusive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u312	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Madam, first of all, what I wanted, before answering your question, is contextualizing what we are talking about, knowing what we are talking about. And, in this case, the Council, as you know, has called for a programme of aid which is literally initial training — I repeat, initial training — of researchers and post-doctoral researchers. That is, for those Thursdays who end their doctoral thesis and who have the possibility to participate and increase their training by means of a scholarship, or a contract, as you would call it, of three years in order to increase their initial training. And in this training, what's done is a three-year plan. Two years of research develops it in a foreign country to favor what internationalization is and connect these researchers with international research lines, and one year of this research is done within the Greek university system. It's a program that helps the training of researchers abroad, which opens up this possibility to increase the training capacity of young people who have just finished their doctoral thesis and who, in some ways, can boost their training on the basis of these post-doctoral aids, that is, after doing the the thesis. These aids are not to capture external talent or to capture Welsh researchers who are outside and who want to return. That's why the Galician Union has other programs, as I'm sure you know well. So what you're looking to do is give training, allow Thursdays who have just finished the doctoral thesis to be trained abroad for two years and for one year in the Greek university system. Obviously based on requirements: the curriculum, the research experience, the reading date of the thesis and also that does not match similar bags, such as Pondal Parga or Alvarin Angels. And what you say is discriminatory, referring to the top of 2006, is something that ensures that young researchers have more opportunities and meet the philosophy of order. You'll understand that a person who graduated in 2006, or is licensed in 2006, is eleven years old to read his thesis, a number of years that we understand very reasonable enough to present the doctoral thesis, eleven years old. From there, these young researchers can introduce themselves to this scholarship to increase their training and to have a research path that is weighing and has also a reinforcement in research in some foreign country. Obviously, this is not arbitrary, discriminatory or exclusive. This is done to ensure that young post-doctoral researchers have more opportunities, understanding that if you do not set a deadline, it is possible that some researchers, many years old and very good curricula, prevent young researchers from being able to form abroad, with which there is no arbitrary criterion, but that, as you said — although I think you have read another document —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u313	Thank you, Counselor, thank you. Time's up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u314	...responsive to a recommendation to the European Union and incorporate the rest of the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u315	Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u316	Yes, thank you, President. I read it in the press from the supposedly European recommendation. I shudder and shudder and I can't find that recommendation. I'll find the ones I told you. I think if the Union wanted to jump through access to these latest research aids or by incorporating young researchers into the German research, development and innovation system, it should create a specific line for young people. But in reality this order — which is practically the same, with the exception of that particular clause, as in previous years — does not meet that criterion. Because the next one, then, what are you going to be, is it going to be that if you make a top, that you set a limit, a cap, in secondary or primary? I mean, he doesn't take his argument on any scientific criteria or any academic criteria. Because I repeat that it enables a person to access a post-doctoral, among many other things, to have an absolutely brilliant curriculum that few people can have in their possession, but, above all, the degree of doctoral. So if what you want is to set a limit, they set that limit by virtue of the year of reading the thesis, which is what is done in most of the education systems and research systems in our environment. Besides, what you do is you don't do, for example, not even the Spanish State itself through the Juan de la Cierva. We often urge them here to be independent, sovereign and autonomous and not to follow the line that marks the Spanish State. But for once you guys go free, they go wrong. Look, the decision they made excludes and discriminates. I insist on this position because it will prevent many doctorate people who can access the only help, in addition, with which we count in our country to continue this research career after reading the doctoral thesis. And besides, he will leave many people who meet, as I told him in that specific case today, trying to maintain his training and his research abroad. What we're following is insisting on, and asking, as researchers and researchers do, to remove that clause.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close the question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodil, I insist. This call, the call we're talking about today, has a purpose, responds to a philosophy, which is initial training in post-doctoral times, initial training in post-doctoral times. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That is, the training that comes to strengthen the acquired by a young researcher who has just presented a doctoral thesis and, obviously, has just approved. What does that involve? This is neither discriminatory nor unjustifiable. It is fully justified, and we believe that there are reasonable deadlines and that there are recommendations from the European Union on this line. And, look, doing as you say, suppressing that reference to the year 2006 certainly does not benefit the young researchers in this country at all. And you will surely agree with us that the young people who have just finished or just presented their doctoral thesis must have opportunities. And you will agree that you must build, that you are in construction time, once you finish that thesis, a solid research path. And these bags give two of these researchers the opportunity to train abroad. I'm not a talent picker, as I told you before. And I think that there should be sincere reflection on what is an initial training program in post-doctoral times. Because I ask you -- rhetorically -- what is more discriminatory?, is it more discriminatory than those people who have been doing the thesis for many years, participating in projects like this and have a very solid curriculum that can stop or prevent young people who have just read the doctoral thesis, or is it giving opportunities to young people who have just finished the thesis so they can increase their training for three years, two of them abroad? I think that your posture, if you draw that temporal limit, generates a lot more discrimination and, above all, it's a brake for young researchers, within the university system, to be able to incorporate. And that's really what you're wrong about. They're confusing what is a talent capture order with an initial postdoctoral training order. They are absolutely different concepts, and the Galician Union meets both. Look, in post-doctoral training — I told you — the Galician board has invested 16 million euros. Of them, there are 100 pre-doctoral aids, previous ones, to do thesis; there are 50 post-doctoral aids -- which are those we are now and you are questioning -- and there are 20 post-doctoral aids. And -- I insist -- we're talking about an initial training order and we understand that here we should prioritize what is the incorporation of young researchers into the empowerment of their training abroad and not keep those researchers inside the system — with higher or lower academic level or higher research level, without entering it — that have been in the system for many years, and are because they already have a brilliant curriculum, surely, that they would be avoiding the possibilities of young researchers to form themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u319	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u320	With which, that date is a date...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u321	Thanks, time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u322	...extremely reasonable and responding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u323	Thank you very much, Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u324	...the European Union criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u325	Thank you very much. Question from Da Maria Concepción Burgo López and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the criteria to be followed by the Junta of Galicia for the execution of the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia concerning the distribution of funds of the funding plan of the university system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, as you well know, in April, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia handed down a ruling admitting the administrative litigation filed by the University of Coruña against the implementation of the Plan of Financing of the University System of Galicia in the years 2011-2015. In this judgment, the High Court of Justice considers that there have been errors in the application of criteria for the allocation of structural funds in the part of the fixed subsidy — which, of course, as you know better than me, are the most substantial ones in the whole plan — and that there has been an error in applying the historical criteria. It is a distribution that is made by the General Secretariat of Universities from 2011 to 2015. These errors in the application of the distribution criteria for the University of Coruña have caused this university to receive lower incomes than dues, which are estimated at around 7.5 million euros and which now the High Court of Justice has told the Board of Education and Universitary Orders and, in this case, to make a new distribution and to give, grant or grant these funds to the University of Coruña. Of course, the problem cannot be minimized because the judgment proves — and I quote — that "the principle of legal security, financial stability and adequacy, as well as institutional equity, was violated by calculations that were made—and I quote— "in a unilateral and motivated manner by the Galician Union". This has created a liquidity problem in the last years of this period for the University of Coruña. In addition, I also think we have to think about how the Council's answer was a little bit in this sense, to avoid — because of all the errors learned —... so the data it requested up to 2014. In any case, we are concerned that at that time — when the problem was raised by the University of Coruña in 2015 — the Secretary of Universities said that even if justice gave him reason, there would be no more euro given by the Council, and that money would have to be extracted from the grant to Santiago and Vigo. As we do not believe that a Council error can have such serious repercussions on other universities — which would have problems returning these funds — that is why we want to know, Counsellor, how you are going to comply with this sentence of returning these 7.5 million to the University of Coruña without prejudice to the other universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u328	Good afternoon again. The first thing I would like to point out is that the Galician Union respects and abides by the judgment issued by the First Section of the TSX Dispute-Administrative Chamber, which partially estimates the appeal submitted by the University of Coruña. [[Murmurs.]] The Court notes the difference in interpretation around the application in the calculation of the fixed and variable amount corresponding to the allocation of structural funds — on the basis of historical criteria, as you said — agreed by the Board and the universities in the SUG financing plan for the five years 2011-2015, i.e. the previous University funding plan. There is no breach of the set of the plan — as is said, by the explanatory statement — and what is set are discrepancies in the calculations of the amounts to be received in some years — not at all — by the University of Coruña. In fact, the judgment does not question the method of funding agreed by the Board and the three universities, which was, of course, rectified vigilly between 2011 and 2015. It should be noted that the judgment is restricted to a discrepancy in the interpretation of a paragraph referred to in the manner in which the forms of financing are actually implemented, accepted — by the way — in the follow-up Commission, where three of the four members — all but the applicant institution — rectified it. When the judgment was found, after the corresponding analysis, the Council decided to waive the possibility of appeal and negotiate with the University of Coruña seeking a solution that would allow the execution of the ruling, respecting the indications of the court itself. Today we can point out that we have already reached an agreement with the University of Coruña to make effective, according to the criteria established by the judge, the regulation of amounts arising from the failure. It should be pointed out — and I insist — that the execution of the sentence will not affect either the University of Vigo or the University of Santiago, in relation to the amounts received in the funding plan already overdue, nor the correspondings to the plan which is now in force. What are you going to do? For, as the judgment states, the situation will be regulated through payment to the University of Coruña of what it corresponds to — quite a result of the new calculation and based on the criteria of the judgment itself — and in particular, we are talking about that the amount that both the Union and the Coruña institution have agreed amounts to a total of EUR 4.2 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u329	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u330	Thank you very much. We're very happy, because it's how we think things have to be done with an agreement and an agreement with the University of Coruña. I understand, by his words — I simply ask you to tell me if I understand correctly — that neither the University of Vigo nor the University of Coruña will have to return funds received by that criterion. Since if there is an agreement — we are delighted that it is — I just wanted to ask you, on the one hand — I imagine your answer, but I want you to say it at parliamentary headquarters, if you are in a position to ensure that these problems of errors in calculations will not arise again in the current funding plan and whether this funding plan will really guarantee fairness between the three universities. And I also want to tell you to keep in mind one thing: of course the criteria and agreements were adopted in this follow-up commission; which was not accepted, which was why it had been for many years — it had taken time — protesting at the University of Coruña, was the way to apply those accepted criteria. Of course! criteria can be accepted, but the error is in the way to apply them. And what I was telling you, Counselor, is that you should also think, from the Council, many times about how universities are treated when there's a discrepancy, because, in fact, if you go to the hemerothecs at this time, you'll see that the general secretary of universities said things about the University of Coruña like it has a poor management or like it's a nonsense or a lack of rigor. You have no reason to say, what happens is you mismanage your funds. This, Counselor, I think we should try to avoid it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u332	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u333	Thank you. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u334	Very well, Mr. President. Mrs. Burgo, when there is a discrepancy, this board negotiates with the parties involved -- and we have just demonstrated it, we have just negotiated it -- on the basis of the criteria that set out a court order, a management that we believe is positive for both sides, both for the Union and for the university. We understand — certainly, in no case is there any harm or prejudice here, nor is there any costs — that a negotiated solution and a consensus situation is put forward in both sides. And I would also like to reiterate a question — I think it is important — that the judgment only partially recognises the resource proposed by the University of Coruña itself, to the point that the decision itself sets out the principles for the new calculation, recognizing part of the arguments and valuations presented, in this case, both by the requesting university and by the Board itself. See, moreover, they also determine which guidelines should be taken into account in order to make the new start calculation — in this case to be received by the University — and the Court expressly states that the global amount that should be paid cannot ever exceed 7.2 million, which is what the university demanded — the University of Coruña demanded 7.2 million euros. I insist that the judgment shall be carried out in accordance with the criteria laid down by the judge, who, of course, responds to the partial recognition of the arguments presented by both the Board and the plaintiff. Here is also some indications that are collected in the judgment, and both sides have started, as I said at the outset, a line of negotiation to set up a remuneration agreement of EUR 4.2 million, which, I insist, will not be deducted from the past financing plan — which is overdue — nor will the current funding plan be charged. They're going to run with a three-year abatement system, paying a total of around 1.4 every three years, 2018, 2019 and 2020. And I also want to reiterate that compliance with the sentence will have no economic consequences on either the University of Santiago or the University of Vigo, and it will not at any time affect the amounts of the current Plan. In any case — as I have already said — we are faced with a discrepancy in the interpretation of a criterion, which has been resolved in the follow-up committee with the agreement of three of the four parties that have integrated it, and is that a judge makes a mistake, that this judgement is corrected and that it is negotiated with the University so that an initial amount of 7.2 million is passed to 4.2 million, in a negotiation that we understand, is positive for the university, but it is also positive for the Board and, ultimately, it is positive for the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u335	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Maria Ángeles García Míguez and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the reasons for the delays that are taking place in the processing of municipal social services resources in the Vigo Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u336	Good morning... sorry, good afternoon, Counselor, president. The Vigo council has the worst data from Galicia at the poverty risk rate: more than 21% of vigues and vigues, more than 63,000 people in Vigo, have an income below the poverty threshold; a level of income below which a family is unable to meet the needs of its members. It happens to these people who have a serious lack or deficit of economic resources and are in a state of unemployment; who suffer special difficulties of social or labour integration, since they have unshared family burdens, are in the process of social rehabilitation as a result of a refugee program, an additive program or any other addition that produces similar personal or social effects; who have the condition of victims of gender violence; who have a disability valued above 33%; with immigrant persons; with returned immigrants; with whom they come from child protection or re-education institutions... all these persons have rights. They also have the right to these aids which have ended the execution of a sentence in a prison institution; persons without home or living in an insurrection; those belonging to an ethnic minority; those who are in the process of abandoning the exercise of prostitution or are or were victims of sexual exploitation, trafficking; those who have formed part of prostitution networks or trafficking in persons; those who are in transsexual status or are in the process of sexual reassignment. And also those suffering from a personal, family or social context that severely and negatively affects social and labour inclusion. The data is dramatic in the city of Vigo. As I said, over 63,000 people in Vigo have an income below the poverty line. The Valedora report is clarification: it complains of delays in the aid of the Vigo Council, delay in calls with a large number of requests, lack of staff in social services or delays that cause feelings of deprotection and distress in the people who suffer from these situations; in addition to the groups who claim constant help in the Vigo Council: The Nobodys, the Anti-Draft Platform and the Popular Solidarity Network, who move every week the situation that is happening. The Federation of Neighbors' Associations Eduardo Chao also denounced the situation in the processing of social aid in Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u337	Thank you. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u338	I'm sorry. Yes. What are the delays in the processing of municipal social services resources in the Vigo Council? And what are the reasons why these delays are taking place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u339	Thank you. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are concerned and occupied by the situation of social inclusion that takes place on many occasions in the Vigo Council. I have said it in this House on many occasions: I truly believe in institutional cooperation in social matters between municipalities. We have achieved, therefore, an important collaboration with many mayors to improve social services — as attested since the establishment of the Council for Social Policy of the Council of Galicia — by strengthening Community social services, by expanding programmes for support to families at risk of death, by enhancing the role of the Joint Committee of Galicia's socio-laboral inclusion teams and by encouraging and renewing joint measures — joint collaborative measures — which are present in Galicia's Single Social Agenda, which we have been able, from the Social Policy Council, to agree; to deal with the various councils, councils of all political ideologies, and to deal with the most important NGOs in the country, who are walking on the street, actually working for social inclusion. As for Risga, we're increasing public resources to essentially eliminate waiting lists and improve their processing; a budget increase of 10 million euros in the last two years. You spoke in your question of the People's Valator's Report. Well, it's in the People's Valuer's Report, which often uses, as it cannot be otherwise, to find things that can be improved by this administration, in which we have to continue to improve day by day. The Valedora Report said: "We confirmed the trend that began to be perceived last year." "Before the complaints were abundant, confirmed by extensive delays in the processing of Galician social integration income, led by the competent advisors then—Work and Wellness Council—and the municipalities. On many occasions it has been necessary to demand that they have dealt, resolved and paid urgently, since these are subsistence aid. We did so when the required reports did not account for an eminent resolution and absolution. It was even customary that the recommendations were not complied with, as we noted in previous reports to the Galician Parliament. In the sense contrary to what happened before, from the second half of 2015 and until 2016 we appreciate an important change. There are fewer complaints about delays in risk, and when they are received, they receive positive answers." The Valator's Report also collects the particular case of the Vigo Town Hall: "The municipal records are processed in 45 days. Municipal intervention takes place in three months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u341	Thank you, Counselor, you have another shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u342	...and the first social services appointment since the request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u343	Thank you, you have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u344	...it's 35 days."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u345	Thank you. Time's up, Counselor. Another time later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u347	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u348	Good afternoon again. Of course, the data is not encouraging. We read one day and another day in the media that the Risga beneficiaries suffer delays of up to a year to charge. The lack of staff in Social Welfare, the Vigo Town Hall, is causing repeated protests by the workers themselves. This is information from the year 2015, but the data has not improved. In addition, we have the hope that at some point most of these people who are suffering from all these situations, who are women, because poverty has a woman's face, and in Vigo much more... we have the case of Tais, who spent 100 days sleeping in the street, pregnant, with three children in his position, and who has been waiting for more than eight months for the processing of a help at Vigo Town Hall. We understand that in these areas and in this situation, a couple and their four- and five-year-old daughters are in a desperate situation. A couple with three children is about to receive the fourth child. The Vigo Neighborhood Federation calls for the Social Council to be convened for the irrefutable delays of the Risk. Well, the data are, of course, clarifiers, but we hope that the irresponsibility of the Vigo Council will be resolved immediately and can change this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u349	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u350	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I said we were worried about the data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u351	Wait a minute. No, no, no. Quiet. Silence!... Silence! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, don't talk to anyone. Mr. Losada, don't talk to anyone who's going to talk to the councilman. No, well, speak up, but not high enough not to interrupt the counselor. [[Laughter]] I got it, too. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Now go talk to the counselor. Close the counsellor. Quiet. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] No, no, quiet. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to suspend the full, if it seems, half an hour, so you can calm this down, I say. We'll all rest assured to finish the normal full, if possible; if not, I'll suspend half an hour. Counsellor, closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u352	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I said in my first speech that we were concerned about the data, but also about the solution. I think it is important for Parliament to have all the data on the processing of Galician social integration income, because they are often demanded. I will give the data by cities: city of Coruña, 66.25 days; city of Ferrol, 53 days; Santiago, 45 days; place, 53 days; Ourense, 46 days; Pontevedra, 29 days; Vigo, 147 days. [[Murmurs.]] I think it's an exercise of transparency to give the data of each and every one of the cities of Galicia, because the data can help us reach solutions, which we, in the case of Vigo in particular, have already put on the table, and I say it because we sign the Single Social Agenda, where the political color of the municipality is not different, but the needs of each of the municipalities, the social needs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I come here to answer for Vigo because there is one Member who asks me for Vigo. I can answer for any city, because fortunately all the data is at the disposal of this Parliament. Look, as I said, one of the most important parts of the Agenda was to increase the staff of community social services, which is called the "Concerted Plan", which has been operating since the 1980s and makes full sense to all of us being integrated into the solution. The basic units of social work are decentralized in the neighborhoods, and they have social workers, who are the ones who handle all the help they then give to the self-government. With regard to the risk data in Vigo, 12 million euros of investment from Galician Union to this city. So we are responding to all the cases being dealt with, and, as you know, when credit is not enough, what we are doing is increasing credit, as proved by this Parliament yesterday. But look, let's go to the solution. The solution is to increase the staff of socio-Community social services. Look, we could look somewhere else, but we didn't. We, for objective reasons, did what we did in the Plan agreed in the previous year is that Vigo has the greatest increase of Plan concerted from all the municipalities of Galicia, specifically 11 new workers to work in the Community Social Services of the Vigo Council: 9 social workers, 1 social educator and 1 psychologist. We really hope that the collaboration between the Self-Government and the Vigo Council will enable us to resolve this complicated situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u353	Thank you, Counselor. We now proceed to the accumulated debate on the questions of documents 8734 and 9602, which correspond to the questions of the ninth and tenth place. Question by Raquel Arias Rodríguez and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the number of families benefiting from the Council Bonus by order that regulates its award in 2016 Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the actions planned by the Board of Galicia for the fulfilment of its commitment to the guarantee with public funds of the coverage of the demand for squares in children's schools from 0 to 3 years in the 2017-2018 course
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u354	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u355	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. To have conciliation resources throughout Galicia is a priority of the Government of Galicia, and that's why people have the need and administrations have the obligation to provide services to citizens, quality services and adapted to their needs, regardless of where they are born, regardless of where they live. Galicia is, in fact, one of the most sensitized and committed autonomous communities with these reconciliation resources; resources that are also necessary to make the demographic dynamization policies that are underway in Galicia, the birth policies. The Galician Union is the most active and innovative in implementing measures aimed at contributing to demographic revitalization and generational rebound, a broad and ambitious package of measures encompassing all areas, and practically involves all of the Government's action and which, in short, aims to create Galician and Galician social environment favourable to live, to form a family and also so that everyone can have the children they want. Thus, the Birth Support Programme, the NAP, is seen and reflected in three types of assistance: direct assistance to families, resources for reconciliation and provision of services; actions that are complemented or expanded with other transversal programs throughout the Union of Galicia, because it considers the Government of Greece to be an act that should be carried out from all offices and in all areas. The Union has increased — precisely because it strongly places conciliation and birth as a personal option, of course, of everyone, but also as a demographic policy — in 2017 the budget in conciliation was 55% over 2016, from 15.4 million to 24 million euros. In the last triennium, the economic shares allocated to family programmes have increased by 50 per cent. Besides, next year we'll be over 22,400 school squares from 0 to 3 years. We're also enjoying other services already, like children's homes in the countryside, or nearby children's schools, which are in business parks. We bet on the flexibility of working hours, teleworking, rationalization of schedules, tax deductions, the Welcome Card, the Care Bonus and the Council Bonus. In short, today we want to talk about the Bono Concilia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u356	Ask, please. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u357	Thank you, President. Already published the Order of the 2017 Bono Conciliia, it is time to balance, counsellor, as it was in 2016. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u358	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u359	Mrs Vázquez Verao, from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, has the floor to ask your question now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u360	Thank you. Time to balance, but it's also time to see what kind of model we have about the extension of the child's education network. Because we consider, Mr. Counsellor, that President Feijóo has put an impossible task on him, and he has done it in an incomparable, quite illustrative framework, for what is his policy of children's schools, because he did it at the Intergenerational Center of the Ortega Amancio Foundation, in Artexo. There Mr. President publicly committed that in 2017 to 2018 all families on the waiting list for autonomous children's schools would count on a square in these or with the Bono Council to conquer — and I quote textually — "the zero waiting list". And he also committed 22,500 public squares — and I quote also textually, and looted it from the Web president.gal — "22,500 public squares in children's schools". A lie, as you're confusing all kinds of squares, both concerted and autonomous, with public squares. You, however, in your counseling already specify it differently: "places that have some kind of public support." What happens is they use that trap of getting in that bag of nearly 22,500 squares at all, and it's not like that. In addition, the ratio recommended by the European Union for children's school squares refers precisely to that, to public squares. We know that the network of children's schools is made up of those directly dependent on the Union — a network, indeed, that guaranteed, as Mrs Arias pointed out, that the whole territory was covered would ensure that there was no such disparity for the province of Lugo, where there are only 8% of these schools, for example — as well as for the children's schools and the IAPs, as well as for the concerted squares in private centres — you also put these types of squares there, therefore, are no longer public squares — and for the squares in centres dependent on private institutions of social initiative, which, of course, can be seen in the budget commitments. 2017, aid to social initiative entities, EUR 3,067,822, plus EUR 600,000 for infrastructure aid budgets. Budget 2017: matches for municipal infant schools, one million sixty-four thousand euros, and then 1.5 million for infrastructure and maintenance. I mean, it's less than half. We are continually talking about public squares, about assuming public squares, but there is a clear model of extension of the model agreed upon to childhood education. And not only that, because with the Bono Council, it's about paying these kinds of squares in private schools. The first lie was that the total of these squares were not public squares, and the second lie is that not even this Bono Council will be able to ensure that all demand is met. Why? Because even if they have increased the assumption that families can welcome themselves to acquire this out-of-term help, they exclude those children who are born in the second half of the year in places where there is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u361	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u362	The question is, how are you going to ensure that you limit the people born to children or children in the second half of the year to those places where there are publicly funded squares and when you identify both children's schools and private schools?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u363	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, President Feijóo and all his government team, of which I am part, have a commitment to the well-being of the Greeks, a commitment also to the family and a commitment to the children, who are the present and the future of our land. Children's schools are very important for two things: because they are a fundamental tool for the first education, for the development of the child in its first months or in its first years of life, they are also a very important instrument for reconciliation — one of the keys that we have to face all governments, but also the whole of society at this time — and they are also a very important instrument for equalizing all children, so that they all have the same opportunities for the future. The Council Bonus is a program of direct economic assistance to families to collaborate in the payment of a children's school square in those cases of applicants who do not get a school supported by public funds. It is intended for those who are on the waiting list, to remove the waiting list that is published in weeks before this question, and also for those municipalities — which are still municipalities in Galicia, so we are working intensively so that in this legislation there is no—where there is no child school supported by public resources. The program is very positive among families, because it allows no family to stop having either a place or economic resources equivalent to a place to go to another place where they live or where they work. And that's what allows us to have a zero waiting list, as we had in the past school course and as we will have in the next course, according to the statements of the president himself. In fact, the president made those statements that you're telling me about at the childhood school that will be put into operation, in the next course, of the Amancio Ortega Foundation, in the council of Artexo, but also made them very recently at the new childhood school of the Town Hall of Coruña, also funded by the Amancio Ortega Foundation. This will allow us in the next course to reach a 38% rate of attention, when the European Union's recommended ratio is 33%. Look, we're increasing resources. The square with public funds in 2009 was 12,600, the square with current public resources is 22,400, so at this time we have twice as many squares as existed in 2009. We don't comply with that and we aspire to continue to have more public-funded squares. That's why new schools are currently under construction that will be publicly managed. And look, Madam, we don't confuse public squares with private squares. This data of 22,400, of course, will look like it's going to be in this House that most of them are private concert squares. The concerted squares are 424 of 22,439, and the social initiative squares are 2,700. The rest are squares of the Galician Union directly managed by the Galician Union, by staff of the Galician Union, or school squares belonging to the municipalities, which are childish schools supported by public funds in which the Galician Union provides funding for its support and so that all Greeks, regardless of where they live, can have the same conditions of access to public schools, regardless of who their ownership is. The same prices and conditions in the 313 districts of Galicia, which is a given, I think it's very important. With regard to the Bono Concilia, indeed, despite almost double growth, we find ourselves with that reality that we have not yet grown enough and that we continue to have a waiting list. Well, this is the solution that we put on the table: between EUR 45 and EUR 250, which is the reverse of what is paid in schools supported by public funds. People with less resources get an economic contribution of 250 euros, which allows them to choose the child's school they want in their municipality. We prioritize the public, in addition, because they first have to ask for the public, and when they're outside the public, it's when... that's to say, bond is a non-universal but residual resource that allows us, precisely, to attend to the waiting list. And that — I say — allows us to care for all families who ask for it, regardless of the day and month of the year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u366	...what they do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u367	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u368	In fact, there are no policies for effective birth which do not deepen in the measures of personal, family and professional conciliation. That's why we think it's so important that from 2009 until 2017 the budget increase in the Union in relation to childhood was 127%. And if we talk about ratios, because we have to say that the coverage rate of public-funded schools in 2019 was 19% — far from that 33% that the European Community recommends — and today we are on the path of 38%. Of course, maybe you should also think it's surprising that, when you ask for children's homes, as since the People's Party we've asked for another 30 for this year, just as they did for the past course, we're left alone in that request. We agree with these measures and we continue to thank you and demand here that children's homes be made in rural areas, because we think it's a very appropriate measure for those who don't live in cities. I also want to say that we agree and that it seems very appropriate that these measures are being done in collaboration and cooperation with the administrations, in particular by helping the municipalities, because they are the ones closest to those needs and therefore also those that can make a greater assessment of the needs. So welcome to this collaboration, just like the business environment. And still talking about the Bono Concilia as one of those innovative measures that are coming to meet the needs of conciliation yet, I wanted to ask the advisor if by 2017 -- which is now under way -- the goal would also be to end the waiting list for those people who don't have a public square...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u369	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u370	...and if there's any news about that bond.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u371	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u372	Yes, I'm still talking about model because reality is that they have more facilities and more budget for these private childhood schools than for the schools of the Town Councils. And by the way, the drowning of municipalities by the People's Party, by governments at the state level, also assumes that more and more of these schools are indirect management. So we have to keep talking about model. As for the Bono Concilia, we go back to the matter of deadlines, which I didn't quite understand. Children born in the second half of the year cannot be accommodated to this extension of the term those living in municipalities where there are children's schools receiving help from the Galician Union. You refer to those who receive help; we're only talking about the municipalities that have schools managed directly. So there are a lot of municipalities that will be left without this possibility of widening squares. And speaking of model, this debate about the children's schools has often been held in Commission 5a, and there, for example, the Block reminds them that whoever set up this model that really would guarantee coverage throughout the territory were the Welsh, it was that "bad Bipartite", or the PSdeG reminded you — Mrs Blanco — that this model of Bono Concilia — which can be a patch that can work to bridge the lack of public schools — can also encourage private offer, private initiative, in the sense of parasitizing the public. In what way? Well, you explain how the sectoral president of Galician Children's Schools, in a meeting with the director general of Family and Children's Schools, said that Junta was committed to "strengthening the construction of new public centers in areas where there are already private centers." We're talking about modeling, we're talking about that you're tending to the agreed model in child education as well and that you're tending to encourage business to extend a real public child education network from 0 to 3 years. And returning to the province of Lugo, how will they guarantee, for example — to put two examples — in the Town Hall of Baralla...? There's infrastructure, there's no childhood school, it's been closed for years, and it's not a different government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u373	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u374	And not Monforte Town Hall? 40 squares and wait in childhood schools.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u375	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u376	How will they guarantee coverage?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u377	Time's up. Thank you. Close these questions, Mr Social Policy Counsellor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the balance of the Bono Concilia is 2,599 families who have benefited from this aid that was not there before. This is a help to reconciliation that we think is very important. Of these 730 are from the province of Coruña, 222 from the province of Lugo, 251 from the province of Ourense and 1,396 from the province of Pontevedra, with an economic contribution in 2016 of 3.5 million euros. So it seems to us a positive balance, that we will try to keep improving, and that no family that asks for a public school is without public resources. That's what we're guaranteeing right now, that it's not guaranteed before. But fortunately, the greatest investment in social policy in this government is allowing us to make significant progress in the area of social policy and important progress in the area of conciliation which up to this moment could not be achieved and which, fortunately, we can now offer to all the Greeks and to all the Greeks. Look, the fact — in addition to the Bono Concilia — is that we are increasing the public network of the Galician Union and that we are going to continue to increase it. At this time, many infant schools are under construction in different municipalities of Galicia, and very soon we will have new children's homes — greater than the 30 that opened the previous year — and we will have more schools in business polygons... I mean that Galicia is leading throughout Spain the growth in public squares of children's schools. The bond will continue to work until there is a 100% public square possibility. With regard to the deadlines — which you asked — look, the subject of deadlines and waiting lists is a subject that can sometimes generate, even in families — and that's why I don't think we're explaining it well enough, enough guilt the advisor will have, because when the deadlines come out, there's plenty of alarm. The important thing is to guarantee all families a place and that if they don't have a place, they'll have the economic amount to choose another place. But, look, despite what it looks like... you're telling me that the children at a certain stage can't ask for the Good Council, and that's not the case. At any time of year you can ask for the Council Bonus; at any time of year. Why? Because in children's schools supported by public funds there is a registration, as it cannot be otherwise, as in the educational world, which is what we most likely know — because we, when we were in the child's school, were able to go, because there was not this network that we now have in Galicia...; therefore, we know the school enrolment. That leads us to think that the school enrolment is like the minimum enrolment of 0.1 and 2. You can't force anyone who's going to have a child in June, July or August to register him before because, if he doesn't exist, he can't register him. Therefore, the registration is oriented, but at any time after the child's birth you can request a public square in any public center of the autonomous community, and in the request the secondary option of the Council Bonus always appears as an option. Therefore, a birth in July marks the request for a public square. You may have a public square; if you don't have a public square and you've marked Bono Concilia, you'll get the Bono Concilia. So — I say — tranquility: the registration data are provisional. In fact... everything that's been published, everything that's been asked... and the final list hasn't yet come out, which goes out in June; because the requests are before, there's a list of initial requests, but the final one is in June. The important thing is that this administration is whoever, in the month of September, has guaranteed squares for all, and, for those who have no place, a Good Council. So these are the precisions that I think are important for all families to know that Galicia offers, for all, or a plaza held with public funds or a Residual Council Bonus in those places where public squares are not yet sufficient, but on which we are working to be so. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u379	We're still on the agenda. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia on the views of the Government of Greece on the possibility of improving the forensic medical service that is being offered on the coast of the Navy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u380	You have the floor for the Socialist Group, Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u381	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. We speak today of a region of relevance, such as the Navy, which has 16 municipalities, something more than 30,000 inhabitants, and which, like all the districts, in terms of health, is experiencing a situation of difficulty with regard to the lowest quality of services or operation in terms of small brothership with respect to large health areas or major centers, whose reference in this case is the center of Lugo. In this case, we're talking about the forensics service, specifically the autopsy service. There was an autopsy service around the Navy, whose base could be in Mondoñedo, in Vilalba, even at some point in Viveiro, which worked reasonably efficiently. However, there existed at that time — we talked about the end of the past decade — a persistent complaint — which we could even say was made by a member of the People's Party, who, on behalf of his group, called for that service to the Costa Hospital. The end of that legislation came; and shortly before that end there was a government, which presided over Emilio Pérez Touriño, who decided that it was true that that service would be well implanted at the Coast Hospital. The change of government came, and the change came, but not just the change of government, but that service was automatically lost. It is true that Member, who insisted on that loss and on the great difficulty of not having that service, on behalf of the People's Party, continued to claim it. But even though in March 2009 he claimed it, he didn't exist back; he didn't insist in April, he didn't insist on May, and he even had to arrive almost summer for the People's Party to announce, with quite great precision, that he worked hard to return that service. However, the square was deserted for almost a year, despite constant announcements of arrival. A year later there was an attempt — yes — by means of a request in Parliament, which made this plenary the Socialist Party and which was unanimously approved. So it seemed like an agreement. Although it was announced by the end of April or early May, it had to be something later, a few months later, when that service was implemented, which lasted only 7 months. In the winter of 2011, that autopsy service was lost. Since then, the People's Party has shut down, that famous deputy has lost his momentum to defend what his own Government had withdrawn and passed a deafening view on the matter. The last time has come, those who do not forget are the Town Councils; the Town Councils and citizens, who insistently demand the return of that service. We wonder if the change in the name of the hospital — which is the great health advance of the environment — will return to the autopsy service, and we also remember that Junta again defended that the autopsy service was cheaper in Lugo. We wonder if that's the argument, which is cheaper, if that's the reason. And we also wonder if the People's Party and the Government of the Union, after having a position, the opposite, the middle, the top and bottom, the one on one side and the other, the outside door and the inside door, has a clear position on whether the autopsy service should be in the Coast Hospital, the Navy Hospital, sorry, to see if that's how we get the service. [[Laughter]] Is the forensic medical service better, and is it therefore possible to return the autopsy service, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u382	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u383	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, in the presentation of the honourable Member's question, he equates — I don't know whether he's confused or doesn't think he's intentional — a role of forensic forensic doctors with the public health service, and he misjudges it, as I say, in his work at the hospital. I also deny the greatest: that is, the honourable Member was saying that the Navy has a poor health service; I think it has a magnificent health service, which, at the moment, within the electoral programme of the People's Party in this legislation, wants to further improve the health infrastructure, both hospital and health centres. Also at this moment, as much as we're talking about, we're building Phase 1 of the Marine Master Plan, which is going to improve the service even more; above all, because in health we can't stay still, we have to keep working that way, to do it, of course, every day better. But I have to say that in the Navy the health service has always been excellent; it must also be said that professionals in that area also do a job, of course, very important, and they have nothing to envy any other healthcare professional. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Torrado, forensic doctors form a national body of graduates and entitleds superior to the service of the Administration of Justice, which, during the course of the proceedings, are at the orders of the judicial and fiscal authorities, carrying out a work of qualified technical assistance for the courts and courts, acting on the requirements of the courts and organized at the Institute of Legal Medicine in Galicia - Immelga -. Therefore, the service to be provided to your organization is not set up as health services, as a health area, but around the judicial parties, because its functions include the study and issuance of reports required by the judicial and tax authorities on medical and legal aspects, including the issuance of reports provided for in the regulations on civil registration, on the age or sex of persons involved in government records on the cause of death, etc. The most well-known function, perhaps, and that's why it points out, is the medical-legal investigation into cases of violent death, or suspected of crime; but, besides being not the only one, what is really quantitative and relevant is its intervention in the periodic control of the evolution of the injured, and the valuation of the bodily harm that is the subject of procedural actions, as well as the optional assistance and care of the detained persons. All of these proceedings take place at the headquarters of the Justice Administration buildings of the judicial parties where the person to be examined lives, periodically displaced by the forensic doctor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u384	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u385	Thank you. Counsellor, I think we don't confuse; of course, we know that it depends on the Immelga, but we don't confuse the health relevance — in fact, I wouldn't say you either — because, if you know it and we confuse it, why do you answer that question and not the director of Justice? [[Applause]] I'd say in this case we both consider it a service of health relevance; perhaps you don't, that you have the aspiration to be a adviser to Justice, I don't know. In any case, Counsellor, you, your group, in March 2010, upon this request, in this plenary, to resume that service, you argued not only that they approved that initiative, but that they said that we were even little ambitious to request only that service; that we should demand deadlines and commitments. The PP asked that they be included in the petitions, in the non-law proposals, deadlines. How time has changed, Counselor!; now, when we ask for it, we are too insistent. But I agree with the People's Party in their defense at that time, it was necessary to request deadlines. I don't even ask you about the specific deadlines; we ask you to tell us, no, as you say, whether the health service is good! —that we defend that it is good thanks to the professionals—; we ask you, according to the question, about forensic medicine, about the autopsy service. That's what we're asking, so I think the question hasn't been answered yet. But in the last case, you argued that the service was cheaper in Lugo — these are statements from your advisor's office. And I wonder, Counselor: if it's cheap the criterion, we've pointed out to you sometimes that it's not planned — the health service, of course — that Galicia is not planned with an Excel leaf and a Google Maps; it's not possible. It's true that you can argue that it's cheaper in Lugo, but we're talking about cases where there are people who have to wait 3 or 4 hours, with a deceased, drowned person, to be given the autopsy service. We defend, as former comrades defend their party — or, if they are still companions, pay attention to them — that sometimes politicians must think a little less with their heads and more with their hearts, Counsellor. I agree with Augustine Hernández: think a little more of the heart, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u386	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Shut up about this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u387	If you agree with Mr. Agustín Hernández, I could vote in the plenary today in favour also of what Mr. Fernández, your colleague of the Socialist Group, presented. Look, I'm here because you ask the German Government; and we have an important part, of course, yes, because we collaborate with the Imelga, the health system. But what I want to tell you is that health care planning is not the same, it's not the same. So I think it's convenient for you to know. In other words, in the case of a drowning the most important, of course, is urgent health care, but then the procedure becomes judicial, and there they have a certain procedure. By the way, that I didn't say the cheap word, that you repeated it twice. We're not talking cheaply here, we're talking about infrastructures that are suitable and, of course, there are professionals who are trained to perform that activity. And what I have to say, and that's why I also think about it, is that the collaboration between the health service and the Immelga is very important, because the installations, of course, autopsies, which we have in hospitals, fully collaborate with the Institute of Legal Medicine in Galicia, and so I have to say that in the Plan Director of this hospital, in which we are now in phase 1, there will be an improvement of the autopsy room, as well as improvement of the Pathological Anatomy Service. That's why we're going to have even better infrastructures, so that they can be used, if necessary, by the staffing of the Imelga. But it is the Imelga, as I say in the text of this question, which decides at every moment how to perform that function. And, as I also say, in time, it's much more that they're dedicated to performing live forensic analysis, to make experts before the courts, than what they do in this case. The percentage of autopsies in the judicial party in the Navy area is less than 10% of what the province is, and therefore they distribute so that they can take professionals to one service or another, according to the needs and according to the internal organization, which I think is very good and effective, and is giving very good fruit in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u388	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular in Galicia on data on hepatitis C treatment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u389	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u390	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. Just over two years ago, the National Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C was launched. Until then, a significant number of people had been treated with this severe chronic disease of viral etiology, which in many cases causes complications such as cirrhosis or liver cancer, causing the death of not few sick and ill. After the time of interferon, which has for some years represented the only alternative and healing for some sick people, new expectations have been opened for the affected persons of hepatitis C, upon the arrival of a new line of treatments with direct antiviral agents, and agents directed at the client's own target. In both cases the drugs act on some of the phases of the life cycle of the hepatitis C virus, thus breaking the string of its reproduction. At the first, boceprevir and telaprevir, marketed in 2011, followed an arsenal of products in combination, which opened up new hopes for cure of the disease. This occurrence occurred in such a short period of time that it forced you to make an orderly introduction of them, to evaluate their effectiveness towards each of the disease genotypes, and also to use them with maximum safety, prudence and equity for all patients. These were new drugs, with very limited clinical experience. The plan was adopted in April 2015 and was not limited only to administering medication to sick people. It included lines of action regarding the quantification of the magnitude of the problem, epidemiology, the definition of scientific-clinical criteria to establish the most appropriate therapeutic strategy in each case, the establishment of coordination mechanisms with the National Health System and the promotion of R & D+i actions for the advancement of knowledge in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C. Since then, the Galician Health Service has treated a large number of people with hepatitis C disease, with very high rates of cure. Several associations of affected recently met with Sergas' General Health Care Directorate to analyze the evolution of the implementation of this plan in Galicia, and by news media, it seems their impression was positive. We currently know that we are studying by the International Health Council the possible extension of administration to patients who are in early stages of the disease. We hope to have news after this month's meeting. For all this, we ask you the following question: Could you give us data on the current situation of hepatitis C disease in Galicia, of all the actions carried out before the plan has been put in place and of treatment prospects in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u391	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u392	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Núñez Centeno, the truth is that yes, the history of hepatitis C is a story, in principle, short, because very few years ago it was known as hepatitis non-A/non-B, and in 1989 it was finally settled and given the current designation of hepatitis C. This hepatitis C infection is one of the main causes of chronic pathology around the world, with long-term repercussions of very, very variable infection, but of course it's always a serious disease, with high mortality. By the end of 2011, the combination of interferon and ribavirin was the only approved treatment for chronic hepatitis type C. In 2012 the use of telaprevir or boceprevir in association with peginterferon and ribavirin in triple therapy for hepatitis C virus infection, genotype 1. And nowadays, almost before they were three years old, they were banished from this therapy by the amount of side effects. In fact, it has been shown progressively over the years that the interferon would reverse its initial action to end the virus and the virus would appear again. So there was a change -- we believe -- very important when the new therapies you were pointing out showed up. The autonomic level began to work already and give patients proper treatment, but it was obviously the great implosion when, coincident with the national plan that started in April 2015, many more therapies, much more effective, and the strategic plan for the approach of hepatitis C in the national health system was established. This plan, in principle with three years' duration, aims to reduce the morbidity and mortality caused by hepatitis C virus in the Spanish population, effectively addressing the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients. It already envisages as one of the four strategic lines that compose it the definition of general recommendations and usual treatment guidelines based on clinical-scientific criteria that allow to establish the appropriate therapeutic strategy with the use of direct action antivirals in interferon-free therapies, such as the treatment of choice within the national health system. As for the data you ask me, of course, the data is spectacular. We're talking about until March 31, i.e. just before the strategic plan, when the national strategy in Galicia began, 1,137 patients with hepatitis C were treated with antivirals marketed until then. From that date, we started treating 4.188 treatments between 1 April 2015 and 31 March 2017...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u393	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u394	...which is the latest statistic, of which 51 correspond...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u395	He's got another shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u396	...the second treatment lines, antiviral treatments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u397	Thank you, you have another shift later. Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u398	Thank you, President. Thank you for your answer, Counselor. After all we have had to hear in this House, your predecessor, yourself, the directors of your council and the members of the majority group, we feel it is important that citizenship knows the reality of the situation in recent years. You'll remember insults: we've been called murderers. He'll also remember word threats and social media. And also the amount of falsehoods that have been said in this Chamber. It seems there was a whole series of interests behind many of the charges, Counselor. There seems to be an urgent need to use a medicine, not just for health reasons. There seemed to be questionable political interests, and clearly visible later. There seems to be personal and association interests that we'll ever meet. But the reality has just been made clear by you in answering that group's question, as did the representative of a sick platform when he recognized, in spite of his regret, in a media that Spain was the best country of residence in Europe for any hepatitis C disease and its treatment. The sick are treated and cured before and after the implementation of the strategic plan. That plan for the opposition was a disaster and it was useless, which was doubted until the qualification of the experts who had designed it and developed it. That same plan about what there is a commitment to review to extend treatment to the sick in early stages of the disease, once you solve the therapeutic needs of people with the most advanced disease. We would like to congratulate from the People's Parliamentary Group on all the professionals who have and have some involvement in the implementation of the treatments and thank them for their work. I repeat, of all professionals, clinicians and managers, who collaborated in the treatment of these sick people. [[Applause]] And on this second occasion, we would be grateful if the numbers of patients treated and the results would be transferred more specifically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u399	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u400	...and therapeutic efficacy of new treatments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u401	Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u402	He recalled that before the national plan the Autonomous Community of Galicia, Sergas, had already treated 1,137, and later, in the period from 1 April to 31 March 2017 — today we have passed from 5,000 — at that time were around 4,188. This development at the beginning of treatment follows a linear trend since the implementation of the plan in 2015. By analyzing 4,137 new treatments, since some second lines need to be analyzed separately, we found a population with the following characteristics, so that they are known as well. 68% are men. Monoinfection or 81%. We found 90 liver transplant patients, of whom 7 are on liver transplant lists. The age range is very wide, between 17 and 90 years old, with fashion around 55 years old. When analyzing the results of the treatment, we also found a global effectiveness of around 95.20%, which can increase, and increases, 97% if we are counted on patients who have not finished treatment for different reasons: maltolerance or some other complication. In general, to say 95%-97% is to say practically healing. Healing of what viral infection is, but unfortunately the somatic repercussions on organs often can't go back: in an esophageal cirrhosis or varices, unfortunately we can't go back. I think they got it and they'll get it. As it says, on the 21st day we have Interterritorial Council, and there we are going to consider, because we have already worked on this matter, the idea of definitely expanding to all patients, both F0 and F1, these initial phases, which still have a long life ahead, because the disease is slow as to the prognosis. I believe that we will be able to finish, to finish, of course, in Galicia and Spain, not in other parts of the world, unfortunately, because — as the honourable Member said — they go far behind, but I think we are an element to follow. And also, as I say, I would like to congratulate all the professionals in the Galician public system, as well as the Galician Hemophilia Association, the Galician Transplantation Association or the Hepatitis C-affected Platform, so they have contributed. Above all, what I can say is that they were periodically informed by the Councillor about how the results were going and how the trend is. Within the Interterritorial Council, we're also going to extend to more risk groups the possible detection of hepatitis cases that are not currently diagnosed, and logically it's important that they be diagnosed. Even though we have a long time ahead to be able to diagnose and treat. Besides, I also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u403	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u404	...to invite the honourable Members to a few days on the 13th day in the council itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u405	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u406	...in terms of public health policies and hepatitis C in Galicia, and results.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u407	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u408	There will be not only our specialists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u409	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u410	...but other countries as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u411	Thank you. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the date of entry into operation of the expansion of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u412	Question by Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u413	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I also want to greet the staff members of the Ourense Hospital Complex who are accompanying us in this Chamber today. A lie, ladies and gentlemen, would have made no sense if the truth had not been perceived as dangerous. This applies to the social services of the Vigo Council, to the cases of hepatitis and to the expansion of the Ourense Hospital Complex that we are going to deal with right now. [[Applause]] There are many popular traditions in Ourense: the Entroido, the Mayes, to which a new one is going to be added that is consolidating, which is that when Mr. Feijóo visits Ourense gives us a date of openness, enlargement, of the hospital complex. It's a date festival that doesn't have an ending, or at least we don't see it. It started at the end of 2015. It would be a reality in the first half of 2016. It was to be August 2016. We're in June 2017 and we still don't know anything at all. A enlargement that is very important, because the infrastructure that will be put in place is -- according to the memory of the project itself -- a hospital block, a service area and a parking lot. A project that is already born budgeting orphan, since it is 28% lower the execution phase than the tendering phase. Today what the Socialist Group wants to ask is simple, Counselor. It's the one who owes this delay and for when the opening. This delay is due to the fact that we are deeply concerned about the Socialist Group because we are getting information that Sergas does not receive this work because of security problems and because there are problems in the very serious infrastructure. In Ourense, and from the Socialist Group, there's something we have to be clear about. We don't want a hospital like Vigo's, where 12 euros are paid per parking lot, where there are resonations in trucks and fewer beds than were planned at first. And we don't want a hospital like my partner, Mrs. Burgo, Lugo, Lucus Augusti, where when there's a meteorological phenomenon as strange as rain in Galicia, it rains in such a way inside the infrastructure that they have to open holes in the walls to dislodge the amount of water. We want a decent public hospital model, and we want you to count on the workers and workers who are going to be there on their working days; something that has not been done until now, that if you're giving them back. They're people who're going to be in health care and they're going to exercise their job there, and they look like the least. There are also very serious deficiencies that need to be solved in the old building, but today what we want to ask you is for a while, how and why this infrastructure hasn't been opened before. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u414	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u415	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can go a little further through the health infrastructures that President Feijóo's Government is doing in Galicia. We've talked about the Navy before, we can say we're growing up in the Navy. And by the honourable Member you said you wanted to talk about Ourense but you talked about Lugo and Vigo, I think big infrastructures, and now we have to talk about Ourense. Ourense is one more within the improvement of the infrastructure that President Feijóo has always announced. It's within the Sergas 2020 Strategy, which is to improve infrastructure. It's essential that we have good infrastructure. In Ourense I believe that in recent years there has been a very important change, and precisely the deficiencies detected want to be corrected by this master plan that is being carried out. We remember that hospitalization was one of the keys. We had previously acted on emergencies, but the hospitalization was clear that it had to be improved. It's divided into two blocks, two hospitals, with conditions I think we need to improve them right now. That's how health — as I said before — can't stand still, and of course, Ourense is one of our goals of improvement. Part of some wrong data. For example, he said he didn't want a parking lot like in Vigo, where he pays 16 euros. It's uninformed. Maybe you have the initial information of the first epoch, but that's not the case, that's not the amount; I think you're misinformed. Just like you're misinformed about the economic amount the hospital was due for. It divided by 57 million, and now it was a drop, because there was a group of interested companies, by 41 million. But that is not against the investment made by the Galician Union, but simply because there are companies interested in working with Sergas. That's why I don't think your information is correct. We, logically, want to do an infrastructure and do it right, and when there's problems, we have to clean it up. This sometimes leads to delays, and it must be acknowledged, of course, that there is a delay in Ourense. The first delay, a first complication, the fall of the Ourense General Plan, which I think was the Socialist Party that approved it at that time. But that's a problem when we're talking about the expansion of a large hospital like we want in Ourense. Then there were problems, of course, with the company. There was discussion on certain aspects. Not about security, but about aspects we understand that we can't give it for granted while they're not corrected, I think it's quite reasonable. There were also problems with the electrical supply, which doesn't exactly lead to the Health Council, but which also delayed us. This is going to accumulate a number of months. Obviously, it's not what we wanted, but we're working to finish this, and above all, to use what we want right now, which is an area expansion of 52,000 square meters, in which more than 24,000 correspond to this area of hospitalization.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u416	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u417	This area will specifically deal with plants in the new building, and with this we will achieve a magnificent hospital area.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u418	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u419	Thank you, President. I hadn't thought of talking about other infrastructures in the city of Ourense, but since it's set, and if we're going to make a walk through the infrastructures, as you said, we're going to go to that spook, and as you say, the goal is very far away from what they promised in the election campaign. In the election campaign Mr. Feijóo performs perfectly the verb to promise, and then, when the campaign passes, come to fulfill one day after another the health center of the Couto, the Marine and the 21st century. And so we could continue throughout the province, Counselor. With regard to Vigo's parking, a clarification. There was an amendment by the Socialist Group that was rejected by the People's Party to lower the parking lot and its commitment, Counselor. [[Applause]] In the general plan of Ourense, when they want, though they resort to the supermunicipality plan. I'm not going to talk about the general plan because I don't have time, but I'm going to give you a few suggestions. The first one, which sets in motion a follow-up commission for the expansion works and also for the launch, where there is a representation of the Personnel Union. It's embarrassing that we have to ask you here to form this follow-up commission because you are not naturally able to sit with the workers' representatives. Please keep the kitchen, don't impose a cold line, and keep the staff as well. The parking is free, both for the people who come there to receive health care as well as for the workers and workers. The truth is, Counselor, that the work is not received because it is a real chapuza. That of doing more with less -- we've told you a lot of times -- it's impossible, like that 28% reduction. And not only that, but also the lack of attention which the Council gave throughout this construction process, leaving the company to its own free will, without any kind of control.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u420	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Close this question, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u421	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to try to tell you what we're going to get in Ourense, because sometimes it seems like we haven't got anything. Opposition criticism is cooking and parking, which means the hospital is fine. That's very important. [[Applause]] Look, I repeat that the expansion works are 52,000 square meters, which I think is an important amount, of which 24,000 are dedicated to hospitalization. There will be 7 floors in that new building, with a total of 14 units, 9 polyvalents, medical surgeons, 1 psychiatry, 1 palliatives, 1 oncology and 2 innovative units integrated into the Hospital 2050 project. The construction project currently underway consists of simultaneous performances in two areas, which are the hospitalization areas, with these 10 most covered floors, and the parking space building and general services; 4-storey building and covered adjacent to the hospital building, with access from the street Our Lady of Saínza. The aspect that he said complicated the situation was, in addition to everything I said before, the problem that came with road infrastructures, that thanks to the commitment of Parliament, the Council of Ourense and the Galician Infrastructure Agency, we were able to put in place in a record time. And also a change of new circulation and new entrance to the hospital building. Besides, what we've been planning on once occupied this new building, the new hospitalization, is to remodel the old building, and in the future there will be the entire hospitalization block in Ourense centered there. And the master plan, which you also know, is about improving consultations and exploration offices. And tell him he's bad luck, because he's got the whole question saying he's not getting received and he's been received yesterday, and we're already working to try and get the transfer planning and we're 100 percent busy in the new hospital building in early September. We'll apply all these days that we're still left to fine-tune that put in motion, and of course, I think it's going to be a magnificent building and an improvement in service for all of us. And, as I say, the Galician Union and the Galician Health Service will continue to improve the health service. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u422	Thank you, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions that will be carried out by the Government of Greece to solve the situation of radiodiagnosis services by image dependent on Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u423	Question by Mrs. María Montserrat Prado Cores of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u424	Good afternoon, Counselor. In this last question from this plenary, BNG wants to ask you about the situation of the radio diagnostic services in Galicia, which is the situation, motivated by the fact that there is a very important social alarm about the vast waiting lists that exist in them. The waiting lists in these services are becoming structural; complaints and complaints of patients and professionals are constant due to tremendous delays and the consequences on people's health. We got complaints from professionals and complaints from patients at BNG. Luis, a cancer patient who's been waiting for three months for a test. From Mary, also a cancer patient, who comes to consult her cancerologist and turns out she doesn't have the diagnostic evidence. From Cristina, who makes an open letter in the paper because he considers it indecent that three, four, up to five claims should be put to the test. And in view of this situation, how is the Council acting? For in Ourense the Administration leads directly to the management of waiting lists for diagnostic studies. The reason? Well, I don't know if it's so you don't know the situation, so you don't get the professional criteria, but others... I hope you explain it to me, Counselor. In Compostela there are a few waiting lists of 5,000 people waiting for a magnetic resonance and 3,000 for a TAC. In view of this situation, what we know is the derivations of 2016, where 2,400 patients to private for resonances, 2,200 for ultrasounds, and we just found out that the Metronic company has just started a process for the acquisition of a CT scan and a magnetic resonance for the vascular area of CHUS. According to the information we have, the claim is that these equipment is intended exclusively for the use of cardiology. In the face of this situation, SERAM - Spanish Medical Radiology Society - has published its position on this issue. We note that it has been transferred to the President of the Union and that it has been transferred to you, and in that communication what they say is that this question would mean fragmentation of the equality of patients in access to resonances and TACs; that it would break fairness and establish pathologies of the first and second; that it would mean the rupture of the fairness and distortion of systems of demand priority; that the prioritization of diagnostic studies should be done by the severity of the pathology rather than by the service where they come from; that most evidence, 90%, is of oncology, neurology and trauma, and only 5% of cardiology. A whole series of questions that they think this is not the case. For this reason, we have asked you, Counsellor, what actions will be carried out by the Government of Greece to resolve the situation of radiodiagnosis services by image dependent on Sergas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u425	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u426	Good afternoon, Mr. President. I don't know if I'll finish the question because I'm a little weird. You have to excuse me. First of all, I want to tell you that I don't understand the emergency procedure they used, because they say: given the existing social alarm and high waiting lists. The truth is, it's amazing. Look, I have to say that the Health Council performs a growing activity every year, I think memories are quite reasonable. For example, for example, some five million hospital consultations are conducted. As for the tests, we did 2,824,000 diagnostic tests last year, more than 31,000 previous year. They made themselves 2,800,000 and you say we're drifting to private 2,000. Actually, these are data that do not have the right ratio. I also want to tell you that in the Bipartite there was a derivation to concerted diagnostic tests exactly the same. But what are we doing? Logically, we have to adapt to patients' needs, and we're not going to stop. I think it's known that the sociotechnological plan that was made in this Galician board, with an investment of 88 million; one part, of 17, funded by the Ortega Amancio Foundation, now widespread throughout the country, and where only in lot one was a nuclear imaging and medicine diagnosis, had a budget of 40 million euros and acquired 8 multi-cut TACs, 2 TACs for radiotherapy simulation, 7 magnetic resonances, 2 PET CTs, 4 gammacameras and other technologies, vascular, mammographs, radiology... that is, there is a clear impulse to say that we have to work still to improve the situation. And we're also deploying in different specialties, in different diagnostic tests, protocols so that there's fairness in that patients, as you say, can have similar access in all centers to different tests. And, of course, we'll keep working on it. As it seems at the end that what you're looking for, even though you're talking about diagnostic evidence, is to talk about a specific topic in Santiago's hospital, I say that cardiology and radiology are two medical specialties that have always been handy, and now more than ever, because it's essential to be aware of the news that takes place every day in both specialities, and your knowledge is vital for both the daily work of a cardiologist and the work of a radiologist. This was said by the president of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, Carlos Macaya, in 2011. The medical image has advanced so much in the last decade that it is currently possible to analyze not only the cavity of the heart, but also the structure of the myocardial structure, the orientation of its fibers, the presence of fibrosis and the light of the coronary vessels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u427	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u428	Therefore, the collaboration between cardiology and radiology is old, not now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u429	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u430	The derived data were from the CHUS exclusively, Counsellor, is this all? Every day eight leads to Rosaleda, eight to Hope. Eight for Rosaleda and eight for Esperanza. I guess that sounds like it. That has a name. I see you didn't want to get into this much. I told him about waiting lists and I told him about patients who are suffering. I told you about cancer patients I suppose they'll have at least as high a mortality and morbidity as cardiology. So, in the face of this situation of waiting lists, private derivations, irregular acquisitions, professional scorns, obsolescence of equipment, what you should be correcting and saying that there will not be that adjudication of two devices — one from TAC and one from magnetic resonance — exclusively for a service or primarily for a service; a service that has not a hundred persons on a waiting list for these two tests, when in the same hospital there are 5,000 for resonance and 3,000 for TAC. The least I'd have to do would be rectify, clarify why these issues are made and give a solution. Because the level of mercantilization to which you are leading public health is that you have no name. Turns out now it's Sergas' supplier companies that decide who they're putting on devices. And what we'd like to know is in exchange for who or the benefit of whom, Counselor, or if it's not Amancio Ortega. I suppose you, rather than a health adviser, are the ones who come here singing I don't know what things, but decisions are obviously made by others. You don't take them, but others do. I deeply regret situations like these, where a company gives resources to a hospital, and I'd like to know if that myocardial infarction care plan is going to extend to other hospitals, if this company is also going to donate equipment to CHUAC, CHOU, CHOP, that is, to the other hospitals. When this plan and priority were approved, where there are patients who go along the road at all speeds and there are others, like cancer patients, who wait months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u431	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your turn is over. Thank you. Your turn is over, Mrs. Prado. Close this question, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u432	I'm going to make it concrete because I think you're what I wanted, that we're working on the issue of Santiago Clinical Hospital. I have to tell you that the words of radiology and cardiology have defined a new picture of the heart, demonstrating its morphological, functional and characterizing characteristics of abnormal tissues, highlighting them by the president of the Spanish Radiology Society, Mr. Eduardo Fraile Moreno, when they signed a long-distance collaboration agreement between the two specialities. Look, I think you're arguing right now, when you talk about waiting lists, it doesn't make much sense. What the healthcare system has to do is adapt to the means to give the best possible service, and as soon as possible, to citizens as possible. You said there's little waiting list in Cardiology, I think that's positive. And there are two new diagnostic devices — resonance and tac — for patients in principle cardiological. But what you don't know, they probably didn't tell you, is that we also reached an agreement between the two services so that in that protocol, when it's not used by cardiology, it's used by the rest of the patients and the rest of the pathologies. But, curiously, you say you must reject this. And I say, if the resonance and the tac we have in the clinic are still using for the same, and there are two new devices that are going to act larger on cardiological patients and other types of patients, do we have to be against or in favor? I think it's in favour, and that's what the Health Council wants: to improve the situation of all patients knowing that every day we reach more patients, older patients, with more pathologies, but we have diagnostics and also higher treatment. And we're going to keep insisting on it. The waiting list, of course, should always reduce it, that's a line, but the statistical data... I'm not talking about names that we can't check. It's very easy to talk about a name and tell her this or the other one. You'd have to see the clinical history, which happens in every case. I'm talking about statistics, and statistics show radiology delays, in any kind of ultrasound, and so on, and they're in reasonable times. And to say also that when differences are between those who handle certain devices, I think we have to be above that, because in cardiology echocardiography has been done by cardiologists for many years and nothing happens. [[Murmurs.]] And xinecologic ultrasound makes gynecologists and nothing happens. What we have to have specialists who can know and have enough training to adapt the diagnosis and then perform the treatment. So I think we should all be together, working on the improvement of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-07-DSPG032.u433	Thank you, Counselor. Before we finish the Plenary, it seems appropriate to comment that, confirmed this afternoon by Ignacio Echevarría's death, an exemplary Greekman who lost his life in the London attack to save the lives of other people, we want from Parliament to bring our condolences, our solidarity, and to tell him, of course, that Ignacio will always be in our memory. Nothing else. Thank you very much. Let's get the session up.
