ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] Let's start the session with agenda item 6, questions for the oral response of the President of the Union. Before starting with her, justify the in attendance of Ms. Magdalena Barahona Martín, Mrs. En Marea. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the management of the Government of Galicia in relation to the current political moment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u2	We therefore begin with the question of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for that to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Feisó. I ask you today if you think your Government is at the height of the current political moment. A complex moment where we see with great concern a democratic involution that comes from behind. An involution which began with the cuts in health care, education and social services; which continued with the counter-reforms of labor, the theft of rights or a mordaza law. An involution that we also see in that brutal process of decentralization that has driven Mr. Rajoy and of what you are a fervent collaborator. An involution that we also see in those indiscriminate charges against a people who want to vote, in the suspension of Catalonia's autonomy, in the abusive arrests of elected officials by a National Audience that is operating at the saying of the People's Party, even in breach of the laws that they then sacralize. It took 24 hours to resolve, while we see cases of corruption affecting your party, like Gürtel, have been in court for a decade. By the way, even yesterday Gürtel's instructor came to Congress and said that Mr. Rajoy earned money in B. But, of course, this does not require extraordinary judicial measures, it won't open up the media and information. [[Applause]] And, of course, if you have any problems, you always have the wildling of that reprobate prosecutor Maza. [[Applause]] This involution and recentralization has harmful effects on the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, and you are a necessary accomplice. The consequences are there, citizenship has lost rights and quality of life, and it lives in suffocating precariousness. We see how the Greeks and the Greeks suffer from cuts in health care, education and social services. We have a discriminatory financing model, we have to bear the rates of AP-9 while they ban their transfer. Or we see how they prevent us from having our own electricity tariff so that we can benefit businesses, families and end energy poverty. This decentralization and involution are drowning our self-government. More and more decisions are made outside of Galicia and against Galicia. And we're at a time when, like you or not, there's an open debate to overcome the 78th regime, to leave post-franquism behind. In this context what we want, what seems to us to be transcendent, is to define whether Galicia will be the protagonist or whether Galicia will be the spectator of this debate that is already open. And we have it clear, Galicia has to be the protagonist. That's why I make a very specific proposal: we want a parliamentary presentation to analyse this context and define a new framework for our country. I would like to point out to you what our proposal is, what are the basis we want to defend in that parliamentary statement: the defence of democracy, freedoms, rights, the recognition of Galicia as a nation. Because we are convinced and convinced that we need our own political power to consolidate not only these living conditions we have, but also to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u5	The question, Mr. Feijóo, is what you're going to do, if you're going to be up to this political moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, you're wrong again. We're not at any time in post-Francist regime, we've been in a moment of full democracy for 40 years. Let's see if that's how the Democrats were exiled in the past century, and in the 21st century, the coups were exiled. Look if we live in a time of full democracy in Galicia and Spain! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The Greeks, Mrs. Pontón, we own our own destiny. We have economic autonomy and we have political autonomy. Even though you wanted the Government of Spain — as it has just intervened, for example, to the local Government of Madrid — to intervene, we have maintained our economic autonomy and that has given us a place to our political autonomy, and, of course, we are in a position of full democracy. Mrs. Pontón, you invite me to set up a presentation where we have to approve the BNG program. What happens is that the most important presentations are those that consist of elections, and in the elections the BNG program has been rejected by the vast majority. Don't propose to go against the Greeks; against the Greeks I will never go, at all. The political situation in general, Your Honor — Galicia, in spite of you, is not an island, it is a part of a democratic state called Spain — is marked by the Government of the Generalitat, which endangers an increase in the economic growth of the whole of the Greeks and the whole of the Spaniards. And it's also marked by the way certain public representatives deal with this matter of illegal government. For example, you're taking photographs of Mr. Junqueras as a young selfie. You have another Member who takes photographs of Mr. Arnaldo Otegi, who, as everyone knows, is one of the great European Democrats. And then they greet the Catalan Republic on social media. [[Murmurs.]] You'll understand that most of the Greeks don't agree with what you do, and that's why we're going to keep working. Cataluña, like on the subject of fires. Look, Mrs. Pontón, you have to decide whether you're in favour of fire in the mountains and fire in the Constitution. If you're in favor of or against the incendiaries of the fire and also of the incendiaries of the Constitution. We are against those who set fire in the mountains and those who set fire to the Constitution. And I think that's a great advantage, because we're still with most of the Greeks. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I know, Your Honor, that you've never been comfortable either with the Constitution or with the Statute of autonomy, it's your right, it's a decision of a political party. But the reality is that most of the Greeks are comfortable with the Constitution and the Statute, so most of the Greeks are uncomfortable with nationalism. You're neither more Greek than most or more Galician than most of the Greeks. And I say it and I repeat it today, they stop sharing meats of good and bad Galicians. Galicia doesn't want meat from BNG, so stop covering the rest of the House and the vast majority of the Greeks that we're not Germans if we're not from BNG. We'll go if we're all BNG's Germans! Do you know why, Your Honor? Because the accounts you're making are accounts that are very expensive to Galicia. For example, the independence of Catalonia and this illegal and unconstitutional joke of an absolutely illegal government in Catalonia — die, by the way, in accordance with the Constitution — can come out of Galicia in a joke of EUR 5 billion; EUR 4 billion that we lend the Greeks to the Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u9	...since the Catalans owe 70,000 million euros, and 1 billion euros that the Greeks can lose if they definitely pay off the interest of the debt to the Catalans. In total, 5,000 million. How good those 5,000 million would be for Galicia! Your Honor, while you agree that Galicia loses 5 billion on Catalonia's separatist joke, I'm going to fight for Galicia not to lose a potato. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u11	Mr. Feijóo, you're a Democrat! Yes, yes, for you democracy is that the People's Party, which has 11 Members in Catalonia, governs the Generalitat. It makes sense of democracy, Mr Feijóo! [[Applause]] That's, indeed, your coup and that's what that conception that you have means. Look, I really don't know if you think you're in a position to talk about photos. Do you want us to talk about your photos with a drug dealer in the Arousa creek? [[Laughter]] Do you want us to talk about your photos to a winner? [[Murmurs.]] Do you want us to talk, Mr Feijóo, about your photos with private health representatives? [[Applause]] What pictures? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u13	Do you think, Mr. Feijóo, you're in a position to talk to me about photos? Anyway! Look, what's regrettable is that we've got it for you as an addition to recentralisation. You're comfortable while paralyzing the arrival of AVE to Galicia. You're comfortable with a financing system that makes us lose 4 billion euros, because we don't pay taxes in Catalonia, we pay them in Madrid. You're comfortable while the state owes us 150 million euros to the dependency, and you'd rather leave the people of Greece on the stake before you claim Mr. Rajoy what you owe. [[Applause]] But the most serious thing, Mr. Feijóo, is that you have no, ever, position in the defense of Galicia. He always has an excuse to hide: about Catalonia... but it could be any other. And you have a responsibility because we're at an exceptional political moment, whether you like it or not, or you don't think about the scenario where you'd like to see it, there's an open debate about the institutional model of the state. And what we want to know is, in that debate, what position does Mr Feijóo have — if he has any — Clearly, there is a framework in which nations will have a decisive role, and you, by decision of the Greeks and the Greeks—of course!— preside over a historical nationality. But right now that we'll see what's going on with Catalonia, but it's obvious that the frame is going to move, Euskadi has already taken a step forward and they're saying they want their recognition as a nation in a confederal state. Cataluña, of course, has already exercised his recognition as a nation and has a clear will. But the question is you, who presides over a historical nationality, who will defend itself in that debate? Galician region? Tell us, Mr. Feijó, because this is going to be decisive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u15	...for the future, because behind that recognition you'll see how the Galician political power is established, and you seem to want it to be driving Galicia to the queue car in the regions. And, of course, for that, don't count on BNG. And I'm telling you, I don't know who divides meats here, I see you every day telling us that we're not Germans in the block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u17	Aren't we the Germans we're here? Don't we represent Welsh as you? Do you know what the difference is, Mr. Feijóo? That you don't respect the Greeks... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u19	...that they don't think like you and that they don't give him the reason.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I'm used to you misusing my statements in the media, which is more likely to make my statements in Parliament as well! Since when did I say BNG's people aren't Germans? Of course they're Germans! What we can't accept is that they're only Germans at BNG, because if we don't only have 7% of Galicians, and that doesn't seem reasonable. [[Applause]] There are many more Germans who aren't from the BNG. The vast majority of the Greeks are not from the BNG. Do you think that demonstration is good for you? Well, if it's okay with you, let's move on. Look, Your Honor, I don't have any inferiority complex with the rest or any people we make up Spain. No inferiority complex, I can assure you. The history of BNG is always going after Catalan and Basque nationalism. Do you remember when you were in a coalition with Herri Batasuna? That's your story. Do you remember when you were in coalition with Convergence i Unió and PNV? That was another moment in the history of BNG. Do you remember when they're in a coalition with the Republican Left of Catalonia? Those are moments other than BNG. I've been taking four BNG spokespersons in nine years, you'll understand that I have difficulty guiding myself. But, in any case, Your Honor, you are very disoriented. They don't rule the 11 Members of the Catalonian Parliament. No, the Catalan Parliament is dissolved, Mrs. Pontón. What's in Catalonia is an election call. Does it seem more democratic than convening elections in an autonomous community? You don't like elections in Catalonia? What do you propose to me? May I go to Brussels and be exiled and half my government is in jail? Is that the BNG proposal? Why not, Mrs. Pontón? Please, let's stop being ridiculous, let's stop being ridiculous! [[Applause]] The ridiculous thing you already do when you go to Catalonia to take pictures of the independents... by the way, when you talk to Junqueras doesn't ask him what they think of AVE and Galicia as the Republican Left of Catalonia? And when you take photos with PECAT, you don't even think why you consider a dispensation that AVE arrives in Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] But, Mrs. Pontón, how do you allow yourself to wear that hair as a representative of the Greeks? At personal level do what you consider appropriate, but, man!, as representative of the Greeks don't let themselves be caught by the Catalan independentists. Look at the country! Your Honor, in Galicia we're growing up, we're creating jobs. In Galicia we're doing hospitals, in Galicia we're finishing our health center park. Galicia comes more people than ever. In Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, the elders have quite better and more favourable conditions than most of Spain. In Galicia we control public debt, we are able to maintain our financial autonomy and political autonomy. In Galicia, Your Honor, we like to pay our bills to the Greeks. We're opening up new sectors of the economy; the shipbuilding industry is better; the automotive industry, of course, the aerospace industry, the pharmaceutical industry... Your Honor, in Galicia we have more teachers per student than in Catalonia. In Galicia, university rates are much cheaper than in Catalonia. In Galicia we continue to boast of our culture and in Galicia, Your Honor, we receive more people than ever. What's your problem? What's your criticism? That the board doesn't concern the independent folklore? No, Your Honor, we like our folklore, not imported folklores, as you can imagine. I refuse to let the Greeks be the useful fools of Catalan independence. I refuse that, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Your Honor, the Catalan independenceists are not going to use Galicia, they're already using the BNG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Question by Dr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the views of the Government of Greece on the policies carried out in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u23	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u24	Good morning. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the crisis broke the social contract on which coexistence is based in Spain. There were too many people talking to unemployment, without hope. The labour market doors closed for so much youth that he had made an exemplary journey into his studies, his work. Workers without stain were fired and there were too many autonomous or small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who broke because their customers stopped paying them or just stopped buying them their products, their services. And this breakdown, this job breakdown, this job breakdown, increased inequality and also increased our sensitivity to it. It has delegated the political system and made us all extremely sensitive to dishonest, unfair behaviors, to favoritism, to unjustified waste from the public administration. It has also affected the administration's solvency, its fiscal capacity and, therefore, its ability to provide basic services to the population that demand them. This is a simple synthesis of the economic crisis, the social crisis and the political crisis we live in. Spain — as you well know — has had the second worst job behaviour in Europe after Greece. But what we're interested in, and so I ask you, is why Galicia, from the perspective of employment, from the perspective of occupation, has behaved even worse than in Spain, and that's your responsibility, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, because you ruled in those years of crisis in Galicia. I'll give you two data, always from the EPA. In the third quarter of 2008 there were 1,216,000 employed in Galicia, it was almost 6% of the Spanish total, 5.92%. But in the same quarter of 2017 we were only 1,072.000 occupied, 134,000 occupied less and only 5.6% of the Spanish total. If the job in Galicia had behaved like in Spain, we would now have tens of thousands of additional jobs available to our unemployed, our Thursdays. And we're comparing ourselves with Spain, there's the same central government, the same general policies, the same legal, economic, social and political context. What's different is that here you're ruling, that's what makes us different. Notice, in addition to the differential, it has been very sharp since the recovery began. In 2013 we were very close to Spain and now we're at a considerable distance. Since the recovery began, Galicia has created uniquely fewer jobs than Spain. We are losing weight in the Spanish context, we continue to lose job opportunities in Galicia, and their policies are especially harmful to youth. We have 6 people under 35 years of age in every 10 who were at the beginning of the crisis. And these under 35 years of age also have a very precarious job, under poor conditions, with very low wages. This situation is not sustainable. The situation of youth reduces our prospects for future growth, introduces a serious concern about the long-term solvency of our pension system and, in general, our social protection system. And while you're doing less than you should be, you're looking elsewhere, because you have resources to apply justly to the labour market and you're not doing it right. That's their responsibility: an efficient use of public resources to allow young people to find the job they need, to allow us to create jobs at least at the same pace as in Spain, which would allow us to be substantially better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u26	Of course, I'll talk to you in my replica, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I would not tell you that I subscribe to your diagnosis, but really your diagnosis and ours in relation to the crisis and the political, economic and social effects are quite coincidental. Now, you remember the intervention you did a few days ago — I think it was yesterday — the former Governor of the Bank of Spain, Mr Ordonez, that those responsible were always the others, he had no responsibility at all. More than that, you've already warned that you should ask for the ransom before so as not to suffer so much with the economic crisis. You remind me of that because, of course, you hide that the inheritance you left in 2009 was 49,000 more unemployed in a year and 49,000 less affiliated in a year. That was very complex to solve. And in case that wasn't enough, we were left with 2,500 million euros of economic hole. You'll understand what you say to me: you're always talking about the same thing. It's just that I have to represent the Greeks, that we suffer those consequences. So, Mr. Leicega, when you take figures... by the way, they're not right. You check the membership figures for the second trimester of 2009, they don't exceed 1,152,000 and you speak of a million two hundred and peak... anyway, Mr. Leicega. Look, the EPA that just came out right now tells us we have the lowest unemployment rate since 2009, Mr. Leicega. The EPA you know says we have the lowest unemployment rate since 2009, 14.5%. The EPA that just mentioned says we continue with two points of difference in unemployment rate below the rest of Spain. The EPA that just came out says we created about 90,000 net jobs, occupied, exactly 89,700. That's what you just told EPA that's published. Yes, the number of busy people is still growing, and we already have 89,700 more than we had since 2014. Your Honor, we will continue to work, of course. You tell me we've got unemployment in our youth. Well, we can talk about that in the replica. Much less than in Spain, much less than in Spain! But the truth is, we're going to keep working, why? Because we have a goal, that the unemployment rate is 10% and that we are creating about 80,000 100,000 jobs by 2020. We're going along the right path and, in fact, we've created more than 55,000 jobs. So, Your Honor, we're going to go on because we're growing at 3%, which is a frankly optimal growth, and because we keep making proposals. In order for companies to invest in Galicia we have carried more than 1,000 projects in this legislation, with more than 130 million euros, to keep it innovating in Galicia. And we've taken 1,600 million euros up to 2020, and now 900 million mobilized and 1,900 innovative projects in progress. The first autonomous car, the first for unmanned aircraft technology, the first incubator dedicated to discovering new drugs... we are working with the Industrial Agenda 4.0 and we have 4,200 companies that are investing in Galicia more than 342 million euros. In the autonomous we have a strategy. I'm surprised you didn't support Galician Business Incentives Act. You'll know why. In public investment we are the second autonomous community with greater public investment from the budget, and we have just approved the most ambitious public job offer for at least the last fifteen years: 14,700 jobs up to 2020. Therefore, Your Honor, Galicia is improving substantially, and the inheritance you have left, Mr. Leicega, I think it is not an inheritance to bring the collation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u30	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u32	As always, you fight windmills instead of giving an explanation to what I ask. And my question is quite simple: why is our behavior in employment, occupation, substantially worse than in Spain since 2009 until now, and specifically from economic recovery? What happens in Galicia that you govern so that employment opportunities for young people in Galicia are also substantially worse than in Spain and we are losing employment under the age of 35, even, and above all, since economic recovery? That's what you have to explain to me, not come to me about things that happened ten years ago. Because the Galician Union has financial resources for this matter and therefore it also has political responsibilities on this issue, and that is what I demand from you in this question. Resources that do not use with due diligence, desired effectiveness, and responsibilities that it does not assume. I've told you once that your advisor, Mr. Count, has some problem, some difficulty, just with this. Look at this graph. It's the cost of being unemployed since you've been ruling. They started with 2 euros per stop just in the job function, and now they're in less than 0.5 in the last few years. And it's not because they don't have resources, of course they have a lot more resources, but the resources don't use them, that's the big problem! I use low minimums and unspent resources that also put other administrations, because they come from outside, in an absolutely poor management. That's your summary, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. Look, do you know that in 2016, in sub-function 323, Training for Employment, he left out of more than 70% of the vocational training credits for the unemployed? Do you know that in obligations recognised this year, on 30 September, in Employment Development only have 23%, in Employment Development 28% and, for example, in the Best Employment Qualification of 0.8%? Not 8%, 0.8% run! It's what you have to explain, it's your resources, it's your execution, it's your responsibility, and that's your results. Employment results, and specifically employment for youth, are substantially worse than in Spain. Fewer jobs for youth since recovery and unspent resources began. What balance do you take from the youth guarantee initiative you've had all these years? That's what you have to tell me. What are you planning to solve this problem? Your counselor doesn't know or can't do it, so you should be perfectly aware...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u34	...of what you have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u35	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, listening to you and listening to me, the Greeks are in a little mess, because between what you say and reality...! I'm not going to give you any data I'm inventing, nor do I get a statistic without realising whether these funds are incorporated into the next exercise, which is what you just did, too, Mr. Leicega! You have to choose if you want to be the Fernández Ordonez here. I'm telling you, no. I don't like that governor of the Banco de España who took our hair from all the Greeks and all the Spaniards. Today we have less registered unemployment than in 2016, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, and 9, yes or no? Yes. Today we have more social security affiliates than in 2016, 15, 14, 13, 12 and 11, yes or no? Yes. So, Your Honor, we have three legislations and today I have less unemployment than when the Greeks voted for me for the first time. Yes, Mr. Leicega, I know you say no. [[Mr. Fernández Leicea does gestures indicating no.]] He just doesn't like the data. And we have more exports than ever, Mr. Leicega, and consequently we have a more competitive economy than ever, Mr. Leicega. Are you really not going to congratulate the Greeks for having a more competitive economy than ever, because we export more than ever? Mr. Leicega, put your head down. We are the second autonomous community that most invested in unemployment programs in 2017, just behind Andalusia. Andalucía 273 million, Galicia 256. Why don't you count this data? We've got all the help we've got here. 80% of the current credit is compromised or authorized. Why don't you count this data, Mr. Leicega? Why don't you tell the House that since 2014 we have increased active employment policies by 37%? Why don't you count this data? And why is he hiding in the Chamber, telling him about the employment of youth, that in Spain 36% of the youth is unemployed and in Galicia 32.6%? And why does it hide young people, for example, that in 2016 Galicia was one of the autonomous communities where less Thursday came out of the community, in front of the average of Spain? Do you know when more Thursdays came out of the community, Mr. Leicega? When you ruled in 2007. And from 2009 to 2016, the balance between young people coming out and entering is positive for Galicia. So, Your Honor, I think we should be a little more respectable with the figures, because you also know them, and you know them well. You're talking about active population and assets. You know, Your Honor, that in the ages of 30 to 60 we have 100,000 assets more now than in 2009. Why don't you give that data? Aren't you interested in giving that data? Your Honor, what are we saying? We're less unemployed than when we get to the government, even though you've left us 50,000 more unemployed just in a year. And that we have more affiliations to Social Security, even though our population is descending, than in 2011. Look, Your Honor, I'm not going to do what your colleagues did. Are we going to approve a new youth employment plan? The answer is yes. Are we going to invest between 50 and 60 million euros between 2018 and 2020? That's our proposal. Can we discuss it in the Chamber? We can. Can we talk to the unions? We must. Let's consider it. We will not be satisfied with this situation. Galicia grows and Galicia creates jobs. I won't say what you said, you'll remember what we were in the Star League, in the Champions League. No, no. We're not in the Star League or the Champions League. We like it a lot more than Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u38	We're still in "There's to dew," Mr. Leicega. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. in Marea, about the actions planned by the Galician Union to prevent the population from having a situation like the one suffered on Sunday, October 15, 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u40	Question by Don Luis Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, how long will you keep at your posts those responsible for the abandonment of the rural environment suffered by our country, and particularly the abandonment that the population of Galicia suffered during the weekend fire strike, especially on Black Sunday? Yesterday we had a debate in this House, in that debate you have offered a great deal of country agreement that we welcome as much as we wanted and we wish to arrive at agreements that allow, for today and tomorrow, future solutions for the integral management of the territory. We also told him that it would take three steps. First of all, the need for political responsibilities to those directly involved in the achievements so far, responsible for this abandonment. We thought and thought that with the same politicians we can't make different policies and with the same technicians we can't make different techniques. So it was necessary. We know your advisors will not cease, but at least in the rank of general directors you should reconsider that with those politicians there is no different policy. Secondly, we called for the establishment of a special study committee in which independent experts could compete to diagnose cases, establish consequences and formulate alternative policies to discuss proposals from all political groups and where they could propose and discuss with those independent experts. And thirdly, we wanted from there a great national pact for the territory that decidedly covered climate change, land management, forest policy, agricultural policy and, of course, a living rural area for our country. In relation to the second step, you announced yesterday your willingness to create a special commission of research and study on this subject, which we thank you for, and the Socialist Party and the Tide Group itself we re-registrate yesterday that commission so that this time, and without further delay, we can put that working group where we can all meet and discuss, both of their proposals regarding the offer of a country pact and those of the others that we have to complement. With regard to these measures proposed by you, the 30 measures, we wanted to make three comments. The first one is that, of the 30 measures, 16 are already collected in the applicable law and do not assume any kind of innovation. It's just picking up the old law. Secondly, there is a recognition that there are rules which have been repealed, or measures which have been repealed, before 2009, namely three, which are recovered. And then there's 6 where diametrically corrects the politics carried out so far, and there's only 5 that are novices. We see here almost an amendment to the whole — not to the whole — of its policy, particularly in the forest and in the agribusiness, so far. Also something in emergency performances, but above all in both measures. And the question we ask ourselves is, doesn't it seem strange to you that you came here yesterday to present to the House a pact in which, of the 30 measures, most of them are already law-enforcement? Does it not seem strange to you that anyone who has prepared these measures — especially Mr Fernández Couto — had limited itself solely and exclusively to collecting laws passed by this Parliament or decrees passed by the Galician Council that are not being complied with today and that many of them have never met? Who is responsible for compliance with the laws, Mr. President? The Galician Union, as a recipient of Parliament's rules to enforce those rules, was not doing so. Why? Who is responsible for most of these measures not being implemented today? Does it not seem reasonable to you that it would be reasonable to stop those responsible for the specific policies that led to the failure to implement the measures adopted by this Parliament and by the Council itself in Galicia? Don't you think it's time to stop those who were politically responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u43	...and what are they doing incuring once again on the low credibility of the German Government's assertions in connection with that pact? Is it not necessary to stop the general directors who caused the abandonment that caused the situation this weekend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I don't hide from you that I don't know very well what you're talking about. I do know he talks to me about fires, of course, but I don't know exactly what the proposal is. But the important thing is that In Marea participates in that commission, because that's where you're going to realize your recipes to solve this matter, your philosophical stone. By the way, nowhere for a moment experienced, but in that committee we will hear it with great interest. You're telling me that, of all these measures, 16 are already there, and at the same time, you tell me that yesterday's measures are an amendment to the whole of what we're doing. Man!, if they are already, an amendment to the whole is a certain contradiction. You tell me why some of the measures implementing the laws are not complied with. But really, Mr. Villares, you don't know? I explained it yesterday. First, because the Greeks — as far as the fringes of the rural nucleus — do not fulfill that obligation. Secondly, because the municipalities, which are responsible for fulfilling and carrying out that obligation, say they have no ability to do so. And thirdly, because the Council of Galicia, failing the Town Councils and failing the citizens, we see ourselves completely overwhelmed in order to comply with a law whose complyrs are not executing it. So, what do we think? Something quite reasonable. First, are we going to have brigades in all the municipalities, or are the municipalities going to continue voluntarily refusing to have fire brigades? I mean, can you compromise that the municipalities of En Marea have a brigade against forest fires, yes or no? I have to commit myself to having the P.P. Town Councils. That would be a great advance. Second. Can you commit the municipalities of En Marea to notify the owners of the obligation to clean up the fringes surrounding the rural nuclei? That would be a second big advance. Mr. Leicega, are you going to commit yourself, like us, to speak... Sorry, Mr. Villares, are you going to commit yourself as we point at the incendiary finger? It's only yesterday that not a single word about the incendiaries, Mr. Villares, except for your crackdown on the Attorney General of Galicia. No plans for arsonists. So what do we have to do? Yesterday we drew 30 measurements. What I propose to you is that, since the deadline for amendments will end on 14 or 15 November -- I think I remember -- i.e., within a week, those proposals in which you already agree are presented as amendments to the Tax Law. We will, of course, present some additional proposals. For what? For it to be running from January 1st of the year 2018. I think you have a great chance. We can start discussing immediately, that is, next week. If we agree on the measures we are going to implement, and it seems that you agree with the proposals of the Tax Law, because we are already moving forward. So, Mr. Villares, keep moving, don't have any problems, keep your criterion yesterday. The criterion is to have discretion on things, Mr. Villares. You may be useful as a Member of Parliament as long as you are, I will try to be useful as well. And being useful means that in the same way that it's inconceivable that someone goes without a driver's license on a Welsh highway, it's inconceivable that someone doesn't fulfill his duties as owner. And in the same way that the state's security forces and bodies are implacable with the one who makes a robbery, a robbery, or with the one who goes without a driver's license on a road, we have to be ruthless with those who do not fulfill our obligations as landowners in the rural nuclei. Do you think it's a good proposal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u47	No matter what happens, we're willing to do this. I think In Marea should be willing as well. That would be a great advance, Mr. Villares. And about the cessations and not the cessations, do you think it would be logical that the 48-hour fire strike had made the people who worked for the past nine years responsible? Wouldn't that be the easiest? Mr. Villares, do you attach yourself to the easiest or the most difficult? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u49	Ask yourself what things we can commit to. I ask you, can you undertake to comply with the law? Is it necessary to come here, to this House, to offer us a pact to comply with the law? What if we don't want that pact? Aren't you going to keep the law? Is that your position? Is that what you solved yesterday? That if we don't want that big deal, you're going to adopt, as a consequence, not to comply with the decrees passed by the Board? See, of the 30 measures, collaboration-Third Councils — Novelty, no? —, provided for in the Fire Protection Act, Article 59. Measure 5: facilities for acting on unknown ownership plots. Article 12 of the Land Mobility Act and also agreed with the General Administration of the State. Measure 6: Precautionary incorporation of the Land Bank. Article 12 of the Land Mobility Act and agreed with the General Administration of the State in 2013. Measure 7: Precautionary incorporation to the Land Bank. As provided for in Article 27 of the Land Mobility Act and in Article 28.2. Action 8: mobilisation of abandoned lands. Planned in the Metaga, the Territorial Structure Improvement Act, 2015 and the Land Mobility Act. Measure 9: protection tracks. Article 20a of the Fire Protection Act provides. Measure 10: biomass management obligation. Article 16 of the Fire Law provides. Action 13: dissemination campaign in the media of new measures. Anticipated on the Pladiga. Action 14: awareness-raising campaign in compulsory education. Anticipated on the Pladiga. By the way, here, among others, we put forward a non-law proposal because in the last year they were reducing the number of schools and the number of students who received this, and they voted against it. Action 15: participation of parliamentary groups in the drafting of the Forest Plan. I'm already scheduled for the Galician Joint Task Force in 2015. Measure 16: boost management plans in the 19 forest districts. Already provided for in Article 74 of Law 7/2012, of Mount Galicia and in Article 15 of Law 3/2007, of fires. Measure 17: Helps for all mountains to have a sorting tool available in 2019. Seen already, with aids, in the Law of neighboring Mountains in common hand of 1989. Measure 19: further progress in the partial restructuring. Already provided for in the 1998 decree in the 2001 Partary Concentration Act and the 2015 Metaga. Measure 20: reduction of the paperwork required for short performances. I'm already provided for in the Entrepreneurship Act of 2017. And so on, so on. Here's what's going on. Are you going to undertake to comply with the vigorant law, yes or no? When these measures are drafted, if Fernández Couto is drafted, Fernández Couto is responsible for the execution or non-execution of the terms of the Galician Union, particularly in all I have just pointed out. This gentleman is responsible that until now the Board has failed to comply with the law. Do you support the technicians of your administration, your senior management, who are specifically in charge of failing to comply with the law? Mr President, we sincerely and honestly ask you to reflect on this. Investigate how many of these measures could have already been applied, because they are vigilant. Investigate who was responsible for the Galician Union that this had not been fulfilled so far. He investigates — because I'm sure he probably didn't know why he was hidden from this breach.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u51	Why Mr. Fernández Couto hid this breach and why he made it pass as great measures of a covenant which was simply to comply with the law Are you in a position to enforce that law and, therefore, to cease who has been avoiding compliance with the law over these years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u52	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u53	But, Mr. Villares, do you really not read all the articles of a law?, just the statement? Do you know who's responsible for cleaning the farms, Mr. Villares? Who's responsible for cleaning the farms? No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Who's responsible for cleaning the farms? [[Laughter]] The owners, Mr. Villares. Do you know who is responsible, in case the owners do not clean up the protection strips of the rural nuclei, to enforce and, if not, to comply with subsidiaryly? The Town Councils. You have just accused all the Greeks and all the municipalities of breaking the law and say I am responsible for the failure of the Greeks and the municipalities to comply with the law. Mr. Leicega, I don't administer justice. I'm sorry, Mr. Leicega. I'm really sorry. Mr. Villares, I don't administer justice. [[Laughter]] You, who was used to it, come here and tell the Lexislative power and the President of the Government: "Hey!, you're responsible for the owners not cleaning the farms. Well, come on! It's a very interesting way to learn Right with you. The truth is, I'd rather learn right another way. [[Laughter]] Look, is it new to add EUR 12 million to rural jobs, and specifically a part of employment workshops, exclusively to forestry jobs? It's new. When laws have difficulties, how do we enter an abandoned temple or an unknown headline? No, the 2013 General Administration Convention says that a procedure must be initiated, and until the end of the procedure we cannot deal with it. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, Mr. Villares, do you really not read the 2013 Convention? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So we're going to change the law, I hope you vote in favour. For what? So, if there's an unknown owner's solar, we start the investigation procedure and automatically, before finishing the procedure, we go to the Land Bank. Do you agree? Well, we're moving on. You see, as we're talking, we're moving forward. Is it true it's novice that we bring here and review the forest plan? It's been a long time without checking. Isn't it new to make a management plan for each of the 19 districts? No one did. Is it not new to demand that people in 2020 — and encourage — also have a plan to exploit their own mountains? Right, Your Honor, what's new, for example, to insist on partial mergers? Look, throughout the history of the autonomous community, 366,000 hectares have been concentrated. In all history! Do you know how much we're going to concentrate at the end of the legislation? 116,000. A third, in four years, of everything Galicia did in forty. Isn't that new? But, of course, it's novice to make a Welsh Forest Industry Agency! It will be new to modify the decree of the Sofors so that between investment. Isn't it new, and nobody did it in Spain, make tax discounts, zero taxes in rural? No administration in Spain — and, of course, no municipality in En Marea — has made a change in taxes in rural areas. No county of Marea. Is it not new, Your Honor, to insist on the crime of fires? You don't agree. Look what a difference! Of course it's in the Criminal Code. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And the crime of terrorism I had to read it yesterday. The crime of terrorism enters the fires, and there is no need for a plot or an organization. Anyone who tends to be attached to the houses can... well, that's your will, Your Honor. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I know you don't accuse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u54	They don't dialogue, they don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u55	...just accuses the Lexislative power. You never accuse anyone and you just said we all broke the laws. Mr. Villares, don't worry, yesterday I was right, don't change your mind so quickly. No matter what you're told, you don't give yourself internal consideration. You are the spokesperson of the group, and as the spokesperson of the group he gave his word to participate in that commission. I hope that you will participate in the contribution, that you will not participate in the destruction of the commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u57	We're going to have time for that, but we're going to do research forest teams, non-compliance surveillance teams, put in the towers of Retegal enough cameras to know where the fire starts and even see an incendiary, isn't that interesting? Is it true that we wonder why since 2017 we've been making legal provision 177 people and they're only in prison 3? Is it true that the state's security forces and bodies, who want the laws to be complied with, are at least surprised that, after setting up 177 people, only 3 are in jail, and even there are groups that say that this is a PP smoke curtain? Isn't that a little sad? Mr. Villares, we comply with the laws, each one according to his responsibilities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. We're still on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira and six other Members, on the action to be taken by Junta de Galicia in connection with the project of reopening and exploiting the San Rafael copper mine, in the Towns of Touro and O Pino
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u59	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u60	Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u61	It would be nice if the councillors were to stay, because the subject we are going to deal with is of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u62	But this is free, this knows it's free. [[Laughter]] We'll wait and see that... Whenever you want, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u63	Yes, it would be nice if they stayed, because we're playing Galicia's green future. We are going to talk in this plenary about a matter of utmost importance, as I said, which could condition the ecological, environmental and socio-economic future of a large part of Galician territory. We presented this initiative on the Touro and O Pino copper mine to try to stop the authorization procedure by the Mines General Directorate. I know what the People's Group is going to answer is that they're going to adjust to comply with the law. At least a few minutes ago, Mr. President said that the Galician Council was not responsible for enforcing the law. I understand that. Maybe, as I'm up there, I misunderstood. The truth is, they're sure to have an impact on what you're going to do and enforce the law, but let me think that's incredibly doubtful. And I'm generous in appreciation, I think. And why do I think this? Yesterday, in the Anti-Corruption Commission of the Congress of Deputies, at the questions of Carolina Biscensa, UDEF's chief inspector answered the following: Who received the payments from the People's Party's B that managed the treasurer Louis Bárcenas? Was Mr. Trillo found? Yes. Alvarez Helmets? Indicately so. Rajoy? Incidentally, he's covered. The General Secretaries of the People's Party? Indicately so. And he went on: It's an organization that has operated for a long time, which has shut down very deep levels in public administrations, until it reaches parasitals and absorbs the ability that a political leader has to judge and manage public funds. They were guiding that option, which has a political leader, for personal benefit. I mean, the concept of pure-state corruption. And I don't make anything up, eh!, this is collected as much as in the Congress Session Diary. That's why I think that at least the statement that it is unquestionably doubtful that they will comply with and enforce the law in this case is justified unless it is no longer — as the President said — the power of the Council of Galicia to enforce the law. The Socialist Group presents a comprehensive and well-documented amendment, which lists all the actions that the owner of mine rights should execute so that exploitation will comply with the law and does not catastrophicly affect the Town Councils of Touro and O Pino, the basin of the Ulla River and finally the Arousa River. But this, also indicatively, is not going to happen. And do you know why, Mr. Losada, that I know you've developed the amendment, that the truth is that it's very solvent and very complete? Just because you comply with the law and all the actions you mention would make the laying not profitable. That's why we know they won't perform any of the actions you propose. That is why we think that the legal conditions of exploitation will not be met, and the environmental consequences will be grave and will condition all future life in the areas already mentioned. That's why we demand that the authorization process be paralysed. On this line we could agree with point 1 of the amendment of the Socialist Party of Galicia. In short, that before the processing of the new mine's operating authorization, all the damage caused by the former Riotinto mine will be restored. But as a suspensive condition, not as the first condition of the new authorization, which is what you indicate. I mean, they restored all the contamination, and then the proceedings could be initiated for a new concession. The former mine of Riotinto closed in 1986, and I know very well because I worked there for some time. In 31 years, the committed restoration work was not carried out, rather the contrary, as reflected in various complaints and the research launched by the Ombudsman, Soledad Becerril. Since Riotinto Minera decided to close the mine in 1986, the hydrological managements to avoid runoffs to the rivers in the area have been non-existent, resulting in actions by the successive mine rights holders in this area that have even further deteriorated the environmental situation. A very serious fact occurred when the current right holder of the Glagas Exploitations covered part of the existing bags, which resulted in escrows towards the rivers across the area. That's why, regretting it, we cannot accept the amendment of the Socialist Group. Exploitations Galegas recently signed a purchase option for 90% of the property of the rights miners of Touro and O Pino — with the possibility of reaching 100% — with the miner Atalaya Mining. Atalaya Mining — here we have the report they presented in the London Stock Exchange on this project — was sanctioned in 2016, already in the first year of exploitation, by the Board of Andalusia for four serious errors due to non-compliance with environmental authorization in Riotinto copper mines in Huelva; and denounced by the Andalusian Prosecutor's Office in 2017 for the same causes. Excesses of suspended particles were reportedly produced for the transport of entrails, flying and the movement of trucks in inadequate conditions, which did not respond properly to the environmental authorisation granted at the time. As a matter of fact, safety standards and technical requirements were violated in the construction of entrails, as well as the average copper, zinc and arsenic values were exceeded ten times in nearby populations in relation to other places not affected by mining activity. And this is not inventions, this is in the complaint of the Andalusian Environmental Prosecutor's Office. As a result of these allegations, the Board of Andalucía, as a competent mining authority, decreed the temporary paralysis of mud-green work in the dams of the Riotinto mine. This measure was taken after finding that the project of exploitation which was proposed by the company itself, the same company that now wants to exploit the Touro mine, is not being carried out. With these background, does anyone really think they're going to meet here? I am sure the People's Group will call us catastropheists — as they always do in these cases. But if you want to check a catastrophe, go to Huelva and see what's going on there from exploitation to the sea — which here the sea would be the Arousa's creek. We can't allow the same thing to happen here, from Touro to Arousa's laugh. We will not report on this proposal all the dramatic consequences of future exploitation — as we will do in the next initiatives — if they do not agree to paralyze the procedure, as we call for in this proposal. They will also say that this is not a project of open-sky megaminery, as there are virtually none in all of Europe anymore. It's four holes of nothing -- that's right there by Bullo. Well, I'll give you some data. The former mine of Rio Tinto in Touro — which was already a great exploitation — was operating an area of 250 hectares. The current project already provides for action on nearly 700 hectares. But Atalaya Mining — as always, we have to go to the London Stock Exchange, as we have already done with Ferroatlantics — in this prominent document entitled A low risk copper produce in Europe says textually — it seems to me on page 7 — that the exploitable surface could reach 122.7 square kilometers, truly an explosion of predatory enthusiasm. If anyone wants to compare, 122.7 square kilometers is 30% more than the entire extension of the Town Hall of the Crown, from the Hercules tower to the Passage, and from the Hercules tower to the Artex. As you can see, from megamining, nothing. And the low risk is already seen in the picture they presented in the London Stock Exchange. And we'll also talk about the hundreds of jobs, which then, as usual, will remain at 10% -- it's passed on to the structures for renewable energy in Navantia, which would create 3,000 jobs and never have passed from 300 -- or the thousands of indirect jobs, always calculated to the eye of good cube. The reality that would have to be assessed is the thousands of jobs that could be destroyed in the agricultural farms, in the tourist possibilities of the Town Councils of Touro and Pino, crossed by thousands of pilgrims of the Way of Santiago, who pass through the so-called Town Councils and who would stand next to the walls of the embankments — some of them more than 80 meters high —. And all of that without counting on the possible impacts on the Ulla basin and the Arousa stream. Finally, we would like to greet the neighbors of Touro and Pino who are accompanying us today and to beg, please, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group who do not repeat the lamentable statements by the Director General of Minas, Mr. Tahoces, who last week qualified the legitimate mobilisations that are developing the citizenship of the municipalities concerned. By all accounts, the En Marea Group calls for project processing to be paralyzed until the current environmental problems are resolved as a minimum prerequisite. No mine action should be resumed without restoring the damage caused earlier, thirty-one years ago. And for all that, the Greek Parliament must urge the Galician Union to prevent the reopening and further exploitation of the copper mining project in the San Rafael mine, in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino. We hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u64	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u65	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President and honourable Members. I also wanted to greet the members of the Touro and Pino platform against the new mine exploitation. The mining sector is probably the sector that links more directly what would be economic patriotism and employment itself. I say economic patriotism and country commitment because it is clear that the environmental effects of any mining operation, regardless of the sequence of exploitation and recovery of the territory, are there. The citizens see it, and in many cases they suffer it. And I want to frame this in the general policy of the People's Party in Galicia and Spain. And the truth is, it's almost always a good luck to intervene after questions to the president, because it allows new methodological approaches. Of course, when you talk about patriotism, you're talking about that phrase of the Minister Montoro, that of "that rescue us, that falls Spain, that we will already raise it," a blatant proof of Spanish patriotism that fills, without any doubt, the mouths of the People's Party in Galicia and Spain. They talk about employment, and, like the data Mr Feijóo gave — and it has a lot to do with mining — it was on the closing shift and we didn't have a chance to discuss them, it gave me the feeling that there was some perplexity in terms of knowledge on the part of some members of the People's Group. The last EPA of last year says that the employed grew by 2.8 % in Spain and by 1.4% in Galicia. You can interpret, we can apply the first derivative by an algebraic calculation process, but it's half the increase in occupation. And exactly the same in the case of social security affiliates from October 2017 to October 2016. Therefore, this economic patriotism and these completely fictitious job creations are characteristic of the post-verity, the very fact that Mr. Aznar was speaking today on a radio station where he said he didn't know Mr. Correa at all. Now I understand what the open society of the European and world right means. It means to invite the daughter's wedding to a public summons in The Reason newspaper and to go anywhere, known and unknown. [[Applause]] So, in this context of half-truths and half-truths, of weapons of mass deception to the population, absolutely indecent deception to the population, because unfortunately that's where we move. We are moving into a law passed by the coalition government between socialists and nationalists in 2008, a government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, which has been the first legal regulation of this sector throughout Spain since 1973; therefore, some regulatory problems would arise when this process was postponed for so long. Then the law -- in which I part participated -- Mr. Tahoces, at that time spokesperson of the People's Party industry, said it was a "bipolar law" because he simultaneously demonized and banned mining. It was a law that neither demonized nor banned mining, it was a law that tried with many difficulties, in a country with the territorial and geographic distribution that we have, articulate or rationalize as far as possible what existed up to that point. And so far what existed was a radical abandonment by the public authorities of what were mining farms in Galicia and Spain as a whole. And we see it in Touro, we see how the Peñarroya company, first, and Río Tinto, later, had that mine in operation for fourteen years, as they left it without making any mechanism or any environmental impact correction policy. And, unfortunately, now and for years, the citizens of these municipalities suffered the impacts of that abandonment, that police. To me the word "poliation" recognizes that I don't like it very much, because I think it has a violent component, but, in any case, I don't find a similar synonym. So we actually tabled an amendment, a long amendment which, beyond the specific points, obviously considers it to be strictly enforceable by law, and which, once all those issues are corrected that the project does not comply with the applicable law, would be re-exposed both at the municipal level and at the economic, social and environmental level for its assessment. We believe it's an undeniably aggressive project. We don't like the prohibition of exploitation on our own. We believe that it is essential and that it is necessary to put on levels of exigencies — as we say in some way —. And, of course, in this case, about the areas covered by this amendment, of the first, Mr. Casal spoke of, which is the subject — basic and common sense — of first repairing the damage caused; otherwise, if we cause more damage to the unrepared damage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u67	...—I have finished, Mr President—because the cumulative effect is growing; the timetable, where the theme of water and physical safety is essential, which is fundamental; the best available process techniques—I believe that it is not possible to exploit copper in northern Sweden and not possible in Galicia, but what we have to demand is that companies do not come here to save—and then there is a fundamental, financial issue, which are the guarantees, both in terms of goods and deposits and in terms of insurance of civil liability, sufficiently powerful. If the exploitation is not profitable with that force, the Touro copper will remain there. If with that technological and financial strength...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u69	...exploitation is profitable, the Socialist Group finds it very difficult to oppose it radically. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u70	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Thank you. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Evidently, in 1986 the mining activity ended. There was no restoration, the land was changed from owner and that, in addition to the entrails own of a mine, it becomes a warehouse of waste of all kinds: industrial muds, ashes and untrustworthy entangles at the top of the Ulla cup, and an unbearable stink throughout the environment. I guess there was a bond of 300 million pesetas. Where is he? Because the problem generated by the mine remains unresolved and is increased by a later performance when it is eliminated, by the new landowner, a decantation ferry and a pump station that limits pollution in the eastern part of the mine. This action led to the contamination of heavy metals and a great acidity of the Portapego stream, a fluent in the Lañas, which in turn is fluctuating from the Ulla. Did any government ask for responsibility from a company that left all sleeves on its shoulder? Are you aware of the Environmental Council of what's there and continues to come in day to day? Do you know the German Government how that is? Do you know where Touro is? Because now it's about reopening and expanding. It's going to be 689 acres, of which only 30% are land already affected by previous exploitation. Together with the four existing cuts, six new cuts will be excavated, which will give rise to so many other mining areas with the definitive elimination of the use of these soils for current agricultural activities. It will affect nearly 500 hectares of agricultural and forestry land that are the productive base of many agricultural holdings of the nearest nuclei to the farm. It includes the creation — and this is one of the most serious — of a high-contaminated reservoir of sterile plants that will be located in front of a core with a front of 2.3 kilometers, a height of 80 meters and an extension of 126 hectares. In addition to this deposit, there is also the creation of another scrap, with potentially acidic-generating material of 48 hectares. It's planned for waterproofing, it's said that they have a 500-year warranty, at least... The project does not envisage the restoration of a part of the contaminated land and water in the previous exploitation, and in particular the Portapego River and the hyperacid raft of Angumil, although it is a resumption of that same project. Despite the enormous water requirements, which are necessary for the mineral extraction process, the project is not expected to obtain the supply of water. It is also not ensured that the capacity of the treatment plant can treat all water before it is poured, or that the process of treatment with heating is able to eliminate heavy metals. But the most important thing for us is the observance of the law, the sacred law of the deputy: to take course of people's concerns and to be scratching up spaces of freedom that are being cut as a country and as a society day by day. For, within these attributes, there is the defense of our soil's wealth in the face of predation and theft. Exceptional wealth deposits want to be extracted. Separated from the big straw, the fox takes the big and the fools stay with the straw: 350,000 tons of copper ore with a wealth of 27% are carried away like this, auctioned in an international pit, loaded and driven to process and end outside Galicia and the state. And then they'll come back to us in a way of copper. And where is the wealth left? Not here, we're left with a waste of inerts of millions of metric tons, with heavy metals, with the river Ulla waiting for what the gods want to provide. Logical. A wealth gain? No, it's called "colonial mining": Leopold of Belgium, Katanga; or The Medulas, gold, montium ruin; or Messia, Orders, Tower, Brothers..., thousands of acres destroyed forever by mechanical extraction of silicon cross, selection of it and boarding to be transformed into Norway. What value do we have? The salary of 8 or 10 workers and 3,700 euros per hectare damaged for the owner. One hectare produces, in the final value, 30 million euros. Hallucinant, isn't it? For these are the reasons that, from what you define as the "marge of the law" — as the Industry Counsellor defined the other day to this humble Member — we have called out to the Members of the BNG. Which side are they on? From the law enforcement or from the defense of the collective property of the country? I don't think it is necessary to explain the meaning of our vote to this initiative, or is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u72	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. White Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I also want to begin by greeting the neighbors of Touro and Pino and also the neighbors of Valdeorras and Bierzo, two mining districts. And I also think that this is the mayor of the bridge of Domingo Flórez, who is accompanying us today. I also thank you here for your presence in this very important debate. I see, ladies and gentlemen, they don't want to be serious about mining. It's a pity that you, because of your prejudices or complex towards this sector, do not take into account the 6,000 direct jobs and so many indirect jobs that it generates in Galicia, and therefore undermines the families living in mining, an activity that accounts for 1.05% of the German GDP. The questions you generate are several. Why this persecution, Mr. Casal? Why this fixation with this sector? But above all, why do people lie? Why are they trying, irresponsiblely, to manipulate the neighbors and neighbors of Touro and Pino this time? Mr. Casal, Mr. Tahoces caught you the other day a very barbaric look at the Commission, denying him every one of the things you posed there. That's why I sincerely thought I was going to withdraw this initiative today. But, of course, it's clear to you that you don't care what you tell them, so I want to address the neighbors of Touro and Pino, and also those of the areas where you're doing studies, surveys or explorations for future mining projects, and transfer them a message of tranquility. Because, as the Government of Galicia has already said, we do not stand in favour of or against the project, what we want is that we advance the administrative process under the Mines Act — which, by the way, is a law approved by the Government of Bipartite. And that it is perfectly clear that a mining project will only be authorized when the urban, environmental and technical regulations are guaranteed. Thus, from the General Directorate of Energy and Mines it was requested to report to the municipalities of Pino and Touro, the Galician Waters, the General Directorate of Natural Heritage, the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, the Territory's Institute of Studies, the General Directorate of Planning, Territory and Urbanism, the General Directorate of Gland, Agriculture and Agri-Food Industries, the General Directorate of Forest Management, the General Directorate of Public Health, the Geological and Mining Institute, the Galician Society of Natural History, the Ecological Federation of Galicia and the Galician Society of Ornitology. It's 14 reports. You think so, Mr. Casal, a few reports? But in addition to all these reports, activity is subject to the declaration of environmental impact. And the facilities need integrated environmental authorization. So don't lie anymore, don't play with people's sensitivity. As they're also lying about the recent Galician Business Promotion Act, which says it's a predatory law, which prevents reporting from reducing environmental guarantees, which promotes forced expropriations and free bar for the sector to cut deadlines, etc. It's all wrong! Mr. Casal, and the gentlemen on the left, the Group of En Marea, the BNG and the PSOE, you know what's going on? You don't want us to make it easy for companies to implement themselves in Galicia, you don't want administrative bureaucracy reduced and procedures accelerated, and you don't want tax subsidies and bonuses applied either. Because you don't want new business projects to be put in place, new industrial activities to improve the economy of Galicia, and thousands of jobs to be created. And you know why they don't want to? Because so you could continue to transfer your negative, catastrophic speech, of course yes!, that everything goes worse, that there is no recovery, and in that way keep your phrase of head, that of "the worse, the better." But that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u74	Mr. Sánchez, for repeated interruptions... because, man, it's okay! I think you are a Member who has been here for a long time, and is constantly interrupting who is in the use of the word. We must have respect for who is in the use of the word. I beg you, please, to behave. If you don't like what you're talking about, you know what to do. Well, that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u75	Thank you, President. We are not going to allow them to say that environmental guarantees and participatory guarantees are eliminated when precisely this file has been subject to public information thirty working days and is working with all the allegations. The Government is only working on a formal mining project that is being processed according to the law. We are going to reject your initiative because, if anyone must demand compliance with legality, that must be Parliament. Yes, because you are asking the Government of Galicia to prevarice and reject a project before the issuance of the technical reports which establish the law itself. Ladies and gentlemen, people know them. You always use the same modus operandi: in front of any mining project, round opposition and then trying to alarm neighbors with false information and lies. And as the Government of Galicia works and abides by the law, you make demonstrations and protests. Then the Government says its resolution in response to the technical reports. And as in the recent cases of Corcoesto and Iberinsa the report turned negative, you go out and say, it was thanks to our pressures and protests. But, shall we see!, do you really think a public official will report one way or another depending on whether you make a lot of trouble? No, they do it by complying with the law, as they did when the Bipartite was in government. I would like to recall that during this stage of government more than 100 research permits and 43 operating concessions were granted, so it is impossible to understand this refusal to anything that is sustainable mining in Galicia. That's why I ask them to respect officials and public workers, respect their effective and independent work for Galicia's interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Tell the neighbors the truth: if you'd managed to rule, they'd shut down all mining farms. And, of course, tell them that, by breaking the law, they wouldn't approve any more projects throughout Galicia, thus despising thousands of jobs. Today I speak as a member of the People's Group, but I also do it as a neighbour of a mining district like Valdeorras, where many of the conventioners get up at 6:00 in the morning to pick up the transports that take them, for 40 or 50 minutes, or sometimes more than an hour, until they reach the fences...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u77	...to make a great deal of money in their newspapers and to keep their families alive. So go ahead and say it. And by the way, remind them also that In Marea and We are against Valdeorras having the A-76 bus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u79	Regarding legality and administrative processing, and that the Greeks are calm because the Government of Galicia will never — I repeat, never — authorize any mining project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u80	Finish it, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u81	...that warns against health, the environment and urban legality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u82	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u83	Good day again. Obviously, the answer was to what I imagined, that there must be compliance with the law, though Mr. Feijóo said this morning that it is not a responsibility to enforce the law. The blame will be on Atalaya Mining when he violates all the precepts that Mr. Losada very well specified in his... and the Council of Galicia What are you going to do to him? Didn't they do it? Well... did the Ulla River rock? Did the Arousa laugh break out? What's going to happen to him? It's not the responsibility of the Galician Union, it's the responsibility of Atalaya Mining, known all over the world for being one of the biggest predators miners. Put it on Google, put it on. You'll see the tens, dozens, of complaints they have all over the world. [[Murmurs.]] Indeed, first, to comply with the law. Why hasn't the law been fulfilled in thirty-one years? Why didn't he do it? And you say that Mr. Tahoces gave me a review to question what... Of course, in a paper it all fits, in a white paper you can write that we're going to do this, that we're going to do that... and Mr. Tahoces gave me a review because I was questioning what the project was putting. But what legitimacy has Mr. Tahoces, who has at least nine years as director general of Minas and has not done what the law marks for the recovery of the Touro and Pino area? What did he do? [[Applause]] What review can I get from a gentleman who hasn't done anything in all these years? And you say we don't want to give them any ease. In fact, we don't want to give them facilities, we don't want to give them facilities, we want to prevent them from complying with the law. And to prevent compliance with the law is to demand that the law that is already broken first be complied with. That's why we don't say that you refuse without any argument, the proposal of Atalaya Mining for this complex. What we're saying is that, in order to begin a new procedure, you first comply with the law, they restore everything as it was in the project that was approved by the Tinto Minera River in its day, which was not done at all, but rather quite the opposite. And when they comply with the law, we can start to trust you to comply with the law so you can start a new process again. So first, fulfill the law, restore the impacts of past exploitation; and then, if so, initiate the new process. But don't believe what goes on in the paper and that they say in point 1, that goes now, after thirty-one years, to recover everything they haven't done in thirty-one years, and that we have to believe it because, if they don't comply with the law, it's their responsibility, that in the end we have good intentions, we're creating jobs, and what happens next, that an area of thousands of hectares remains absolutely unproductive for any agricultural use, for any tourist use, for any living use, because that's going to be a problem within twenty years again. And within twenty years we'll be back here and say, "They haven't met, what they'll do!" See if they want to continue expanding and, with the new enlargement, within twenty years, then if they already notice the 1986, the 2017, and everything that happens from now on. So it's not asking for the law to be breached, and we're not insulting anyone, because now in the mine no one works — in the copper mine — those who work are the livestock, the people of tourism, with the thousands of people who pass through there every year on the Santiago Way. Those people do have jobs, and those people sure they would lose it; in addition to all the huge territorial deployment, which according to the second project, according to the report they presented in the London Stock Exchange, would reach almost the gates of the Compostela airport. I mean, that, please, gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u84	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u85	...are responsible for this project, which can be Galicia's biggest environmental attack in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the adoption by the Government of the necessary means to activate the Territorial Plan of Continences by Accidental Marine Pollution of Galicia in the affected coastal areas, in order to avoid the possible risks arising from the fire wave registered on 15 October 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u87	A self-amendment was introduced by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another by the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u88	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to all of you. There is no doubt that the wave of fires that struck Galicia over the past few days, especially last Sunday, October 15, I have undergone a new catastrophe for the country, for its environmental, social, vital, economic wealth, and even for self-perception as an advanced and careful society of itself and its land, in addition to the loss of lives. Look, four dead, thousands of displaced people, hundreds of people with respiratory problems, threatened rural nuclei, dozens of affected housing, besieged urban areas, calcined natural stops, collapsed communication routes, hundreds of vehicles and people in tunnels, and losses that today we are unaware of in their county but that only in wood could reach a hundred million euros. Efficient prevention is necessary in the face of a problem that is not new. Continuously they come producing facts and situations that feed and favor the appearance of fires on the mountain and on all kinds of land. The neglect, the disillusionment of the mountain care and agricultural lands, is an element of great danger. It's a tremendously facilitating factor in the appearance and especially the spread of fires. It is therefore essential to carry out an efficient prevention policy, with determined and truly committed investments; a policy that bets on care and conscientious maintenance, in collaboration with mountain communities, municipalities, deputies, ecological groups, different organizations and all levels of administration and different collectives. It seems essential, therefore, to take the measures that are now possible to prevent the consequences of these fires from multiplying. One of the eids where possible negative consequences must be taken into account is the mariner. The accumulated ash on the mountains and the burned earth prevent the correct drainage of water, which can carry the mountain with the arrival of the rains — which are already entering. This can lead to the drag of all the remains of the fires that are now on the mountain towards the sea, which can seriously affect the rivers. There are several consequences that the fall of the remains of ash and the burning organic matter can cause: in the rivers they have a devastating effect on seafood production and molluscs and other species will filter a strong accumulation of toxic products for their feeding. The deposit of these remains in the seabed may cover the seeds and the product in a position to be extracted. River pollution will be affected by these remains. There are therefore numerous problems associated with the consequences that fires can cause in the Welsh rivers. In this case too, measures are needed, prevention policies — efficient prevention, real prevention — to avoid potential risks and to prevent toxic substances from reaching the sea and have negative effects on the marine ecosystem. There has not yet been a drag or erosion, so it is necessary to carry out real, effective prevention; to put all the necessary means for that prevention to be real, to be effective. This prevention, for the case of the marine sector, is collected in the Camgal Plan, regulated in Decree 135 /2016 of 6 October, and has as its object the structure and operating organization regularized; ultimately, the response system in case there is a continence. This plan, in accordance with the decree, is a plan designed to establish basic rules and procedures for action, organisational structure and response system in the face of an episode of accidental marine pollution that occurs or affects the Greek coast. With regard to the response system, which is what we are interested in today, in particular Article 8 states which are precisely the response bodies we mentioned, marking the following: an operational coordination centre, which is the acting body responsible for deciding all the operations necessary to deal with the continence, the response operational groups, the support units and others that are considered. And this response system, these response organs, will only work as long as continence and the Camgal Plan are activated. The truth is, today, when they've been around 20 days since the catastrophe, we have no public document knowledge of any activation of the Camgal Plan. We have no knowledge of the concrete measures, neither of which the response bodies are, nor of which the resources are mobilized. We try to get information through the Intemar page, and the truth is it's a section, the current section, and there are different news, different resolutions, but not a word, not just a word, about the activation of the plan, and consequently the organization and response system established in the face of the fires. We also don't know the contents of the Council held on October 16, because on the board's website is the content of its council held on October, but it's not the one of the celebration on October 16. The decree governing the Camgal Plan establishes which will be those response organs, but we don't know, it doesn't record, as we say, any public document where they are established. Finally, we have no record of real activation, effective activation, which is what is needed as an efficient prevention measure in the face of the disaster. At this point, we don't know the names and surnames of the people who make up the response organs, to which we could address ourselves or anyone, even though they say they've activated the plan since day 16. I want to believe them, really, I want to believe that they actually activated it, but there is no document available to us, and before the public administration we understand that this must be supported by a public document. In short, we do not know the contents of the Board of Trustees, nor a word in the Decree on urgent measures, in Decree 102/2017 of 19 October, nor a word in subsequent DOGs, in which the order of activation should appear, above all, the composition, as we said, of the bodies of reply, nor a word on the page of the Intemar, nor a word from the President of the Board yesterday in his appearance, in which he did speak of ashes, but he did not mention for nothing the Camgal Plan. Maybe he doesn't think they activated it either. Look, if it isn't, it's because it doesn't exist; therefore neither response organs nor resources for the prevention of continence. It's not enough to say that you're watching, because if it's so or was it enough to be vigilant, why did they make the plan — the 2016 plan? So I imagine you won't have any trouble approving our initiative today, which is precisely about activating the Camgal Plan, and actually activating it in a real way, not phantom way, as they say it is. Who makes up the organ chart? Who makes up the response structure, which will be limited in time while the continence lasts and the plan is activated in accordance with Article 8 of the decree, which regulates the Camgal plan? Today no one knows the public document of Plan Camgal. They must make public all the means that will be taken and how the plan's organizational chart is configured, as set out in article 8 we say, with names and surnames. They should take into account that this is a prevention plan, determine whether they have set up any barriers, if they have not put up a barrier, why it has not been set up, why it has been set up; and also establish that other preventive elements will be used as a result of the application of the plan. It's been 20 days, something else. What's the situation? What part did you assign the costs of applying the plan? Besides being vigilant, what are you going to do? Do we also leave this matter in the hands of climatology, as in the rest? Are we not doing anything because we are in the hands of heat, dry or wind, or are we using the available means, those that regulate the plan? Look, the loss of seafood production in Galicia is a reality that has been proven in recent years. Since 2009, numerous operating permits have been lost, as at that time there were around 6,500, while in 2017 it started with 3,799. The complaints and complaints from the sector are ongoing and the data on seafood remain low and difficult to sustain. There are problems of counting and production of marine banks. The Greek confrries systematically check their demands if they are removed, and the problems that may be caused by production difficulties are forgotten. It is therefore important that they tell us the truth about this issue, as the response structure that regulates the Decree in Article 8 of the Camgal Plan, which resources contain, which resources they have allocated and which is the response system. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u91	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. There are not few problems with shellfish in Galicia, and we are constantly attending the calls from the sector demanding measures for the fall of the resource, for the fall of income. And in a sector that had to give jobs, jobs and decent income to thousands of people, we see that every time the situation goes in the opposite direction. And what he was missing, with the problems he already has, because it would be that the grey and mud laughs had reached the seafood banks. The tremendous wave of fires, the last wave of fires last October, caused damage, pain and suffering immediately: unfortunately, four people dead, more damage to homes, houses, shelters, vehicles and all kinds of issues. The problem is that these immediate damage doesn't cause any more damage in the future. And that is why the BNG will support this Socialist Party initiative, because we want to show our concern and because the information that is coming to us through the media by the Government's action is in the direction of acting in case there is a problem in the laughs. We have nothing more to do with the statements gathered by the media, for example, on 23 October, about the statements made by the Environmental Adviser, where he says that the fear that the ashes from the fires can reach rivers, aquifers and laughter is so far discarded. Sure, as long as it doesn't rain, it's supposed to. But they don't talk at all about any of the measures they're putting in place. Or statements by the sea councillor on 29 October, where he says that the first eye inspections do not see that the marine banks have been affected by the drag of ash from the forest fires to the waters, rivers and rivers of Galicia. We are also concerned about the fact that in the order of aid approved by the Government, aid is being put in place in the event of damage. But, of course, beyond these statements, that eye inspections are being made, that the coastguard service has indications to be pending if there are any problems in the laughs, this seems to us to be not enough at all. And, of course, what we don't want in the Galego Nationalist Block is that the Greeks and the Greeks have to go out again with coats, with their hands, to save their means of life, which are the laughs, or to save the laughter of all of them all, because if the remnants of the fires are either directly by the crevices—not necessarily through the rivers, but in a fundamental way through the rivers, which flow into the marine banks—and they reach the sea—and in this case we speak especially of the Arousa river, the river of Pontevedra and the river of Vigo, which were the areas most affected by the fires—is a problem for the mariners, it is a problem for the Berberettos, for the seams, for the boats, but also for the rest of the ecosystem, because it is generated first that the water becomes cloudy, and then that it prevents, on the one side, it can penetrate the light, and on the other hand, it is a problem for these remains to be made into a full filter which is made to make the film. But not only for this shellfish, but also for problems, as I said, for the rest of the ecosystem, for example, for the mussels, because gray, though to a lesser extent — because it is suspended and many of the bats are beyond the direct area of the mouth of the rivers — but there is indeed more evidence than enough of the effects that can produce in these bivalves as well. That is why we support this initiative because, indeed, even though in the reading of the Camgal Plan it is clear that its objective must be to protect and preserve the marine environment, for which action must be taken to prevent, reduce and control pollution, citizenship must rely on the assurance that the mechanisms necessary for the protection of goods of socio-economic and environmental importance in the face of accidental contamination; and yet a very important part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u93	...what it establishes is for processes for hydrocarbons or chemical contamination, what is also clearly established is that, in fact, it has to be determined which form the device, which people are at the front, both in sea and land operations, and what mechanisms are for containment, not only for when the problem occurs. Of course, at the BNG, as the Socialist Party has said, we have no record that none of this is under way. It is therefore necessary to adopt measures before the problem occurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Merlo Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u95	Thank you very much. Good morning. The Sea Council is responsible, among other things, for developing the coordination of competences in maritime rescue matters and for combating pollution. Law 11/2008 of 3 December, as amended by Law 6/2009 of 11 December, provides the Council of the Sea with the prevention and fight against pollution from the marine environment. That's all right. That, as it develops in the articulate of that law, has to do it through the Camgal Plan, and in a concrete way. It is the objective of this plan to establish mechanisms for the rapid and effective response of the administrations, at the inner port and river level, to face a situation of land-sea verquidae; this is the case of what we are concerned about and of what is moving in this law. We don't know whether measures such as the anti-contamination barriers or others were already unfolded on October 16, when the first rains occurred, especially in the areas of the Lower Rhine. We are also unaware of the degree of coordination between the administrations in the application of it, which is responsible for — let us remember — for the self-government. The risk was not at that time theoretically, it was real, since during both the fire strike and later days very high rates of PM10 particle contamination were recorded, which are less than 10 microns, with more than 150 micrograms per cubic meter of air in virtually all weather stations that Meteogalicia has throughout the country. The action protocol in exceptional cases of air pollution if it was active throughout Galicia since 16 October. From the inception of this protocol if there is a record, even if it was not effective, given the limited or null dissemination by the public in crucial moments and at the greatest risk of it. The risk wasn't theoretical, it was real, and it's still going on today. We have no official knowledge of the implementation and execution of the Camgal Plan. In view of this, it is obvious that we need to support this initiative. I've already advanced them that the formula of looking elsewhere in this situation will not work or avoid the problem. I also don't think that talking about Catalonia or Venezuela can minimize the risk of pollution in our rivers. Minimizes the application of the approved and defined developed protocols for this purpose. I think no one can feel attacked if we ask them to account for the issues we're moving. That public representatives are aware of both the measures being taken by the Government and its degree of execution, or even of the problems being faced by it, is essential for the proper functioning of this House. We asked for it in the previous plenary session, but then it wasn't. Well, in this case, he did, but yesterday's statements by the President of the Council did not clarify much about this subject. If possible, we would like the channels established for this purpose to be the ones used to move these kinds of issues that we are supporting today's initiative, and not through the press, which, fortunately, is doing the work that the Government often does not do in the dissemination of these kinds of issues, at least when they let it do so. There's an unwritten maxim that the People's Group knows and practices very well, and it's the one that says if something isn't spoken, it doesn't exist. Well, the Camgal Plan's set-up isn't talking. They really work for people, they work for the good of the country and our resources, they do self-criticism from their group and, above all, we apply effectively and transparently the protocols that exist for this purpose, that there are many more laws than apply beyond 155. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Merlo. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u97	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible that this initiative, if it had heard the President's presence before, would not have come forward. I say so, because yesterday it was clearly reflected in his intervention what happened, what shouldn't happen, how it should be avoided and how it must be worked so that it won't happen again. But, however, it seems to us a good initiative, and we're going to explain a little bit why. First, I mean this initiative... Home! politics here in Parliament has a very important pedagogical dimension: we learn collectives and learn individuals. For example, I don't know if it was the PSOE collective, whether it was the individual or it identifies who presented the initiative, but it's already talked about an article from 2016, because at first it was argued with an article that has been repealed for quite a long time. This serves us to learn; that is, when the initiative was introduced or we didn't have the knowledge or we didn't agree to put it there. The need to act on such action is necessary. It is necessary today, and it has been necessary throughout the history of the autonomous governments of Galicia. But, for example, on August 10 – obviously 2006 – said The Voice of Galicia: "The fires will cause an increase in mud in the river." The Voice of Galicia of 21 said: "Carmen Gallego does not believe that ashes will affect the production of rivers." And later, here in Parliament, there's a quote that says: "In addition, curiously, this August, the group that is today in the opposition" -- and we're talking about the year 2006 -- "claimed from the Fisheries Council that in the midst of a fire strike between 4 and 14 the Maritime Continence Plan had been activated by the Fisheries Council to prevent the ashes from reaching the sea." "I think the spook in which the People's Party is installed these past few months gives them some things that have absolutely nothing to do with reality." This is just to evoke the memory of these treacherous hemerothetics that politicians sometimes have. That's why the Government of Unity on August 16 activated the Emergency Plan of Camgal. If you don't know Camgal, Mr. Merlo, it's because you're not paying attention, because I myself in the 8th Commission explained it to you; after I understand it, after I explain it to myself, I think with a method quite affordable to everyone. The Camgal Plan acts in cases of pollution emergencies, and in this case it has been acting since day 16. And how is he acting? He's acting first in the marine areas. They carry out prior analysis of the mapping of the burned areas, with an area of approximately 300 hectares; there is information drawn by confrries technicians — in contact with confrries and biologists — about the situation of the coast, the overlap of information, in the water basins, the river network and the spatial distribution of the marine banks. That is, we know, in addition, that this week and last year there were actions and conversations between the Sea and the Middle Rural to decide whether or not to place textile, vegetable barriers to avoid the arrival of those harmful ashes and muds to our marine banks. I mean, you have to stay calm. But in any case, I repeat that before presenting the initiatives you must know these circumstances. And I'm going to say a little bit more, except that the seafood wealth doesn't go down, Mrs. Prado, it doesn't go down so much. As anecdote, and at the same time propaganda — that someone should thank me — I will tell you that yesterday it was sold on the French side, in August, the thin plum at 73 euros — 73! - and on the side of Testal, in Girl, 71. I'm going to tell you: yesterday, 500,000 euros were sold in the farthests of Noia and Outes and exciting 500,000 euros in the farthests of Noia and Outes. I'm sure your family has taken some, Mrs. Santos, and you can even eat them. Oh, oh! Man, half a million! And I'm done, but I can't afford to pass the opportunity with this fires, which I don't know well if I'm outraged — first to estimate — about this repeated request, passionately and vehemently of the cessation. I recommend here to everyone reading a very easy-to-read novel by John Kennedy Toole, entitled The Conxure of the Fools. It begins with a reflection by Jonathan Swift, who says, "You will recognize that a person is the most suitable person to perform the position he occupies when in his surroundings there is a conspiracy of fools that calls for his cessation." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. López Crespo. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Toja Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. You've been touched by some paper today, eh, Mr. Crespo! You, who was mayor for so long, I imagine when I was mayor and said there was something to be done, a resolution was made, some document. Here's what's missing. They said they turned on, but they forgot to hit the button; they didn't activate it. It's like someone's thinking he's got to turn on the light, but forget about giving him the button. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you something. You recommend that novel to us and I'll recommend another: Harry Potter in Hogwarts. We're not at Harry Potter, here things don't work by magic. For them to work there must be a real activation, a public document, there must be a support, and that's what you, who was mayor, should know; you should know. So, as that document doesn't show, as we don't have that documentation, we don't know what the response system is. And that's the big deal, because we've been talking about fires for two days, two days when the only thing we've heard about the president and each of the Members and Members you've talked about is throwing balloons out, blaming the municipalities, blaming the Greeks and the Greeks, but self-critical, none. So this is another subject where they've faked the truth, where they've been saying since day 16 that they've done something, but they really haven't. They didn't because there's no document proving they did. In the Intemar there is no reference, the Board of Appeal of 16 cannot consult it, in the Decree of urgent measures, nor does it... There is no such document, we don't know which one... No, no... well, then, if it exists, they have a huge problem of transparency, because anyone affected or affected by these fires, doesn't know who to address those people who must form the response system. So, in addition to falsifying the truth, they also have a huge problem of transparency, because we don't know who we have to address as people or municipalities who may be affected by these fires. Plan Camgal doesn't talk about surveillance, it talks about a response system, an effective system, and a real system. So I understand that you will approve this initiative, I understand that you will have no problem approving it. And if they're going to accept it, we'd appreciate it, because in that way they'd start taking the matter seriously and they'd start taking action. As for the amendment tabled by the BNG, I regret not accepting it, but I think we must focus precisely on the activation of the Camgal Plan so that, from then on, if you can actually start taking the measures that this disaster requires, this tragedy that struck Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the establishment of a parliamentary commission to study the causes, management procedures and consequences of the fire strike in October 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u101	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country has suffered, in the last days of the first fortnight of October 2017, the most important wave of fires in the last decade, with dramatic consequences on people and the territory. Human, environmental, economic and social losses of different fields and dimensions, which require a response that is consistent with the circumstances. When the fire is extinguished — we say it all the time — it would be time to sit down and talk. We say it in those circumstances and we say it earlier, when Galicia burned and when not. Only in terms of legislation has this parliamentary group called for, for some example, the advance of the Pladiga and its review; a specific plan for areas with specific climate and socio-economic conditions and high recidivism, as is the case in Ourense province; a unique command for the prevention and extinction of fires; we have proposed measures to promote leafy and native species and a moratorium to no longer extend the surface of the eucalyptus, which already exceeds the forecasts of a forest plan that has completely expired and not consistently complied with by the Government of Galicia. [[Applause]] We also proposed other measures, such as strengthening the Land Bank, and we also proposed battery initiatives to strengthen, for example, the neighbouring mountains in common hand and the management of the territory, as well as a long et cetera, to the point that after the Pedragon tragedy, waiting for a certain sensitivity, a certain alarm, Mrs Ana Pontón — the voice of the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block — addressed Mr Núñez Feijóo, and his answer was like right now: the absence. Directed by letter and received no reply. The nationalists have been, we are and will be on the side of dialogue, on the side of research and on the side of seeking consensus, within and outside the Greek Parliament, on this matter. So far, as far as the Group of the People's Party and the Government Group are concerned, we have preached in the desert, but of course we have not given up the firm conviction that it is essential for this country to make profound changes in the short and long term as well. After the tragedy, the most powerful lesson we can take, the best we can do for this country, is to learn. Yesterday the German Government had the opportunity to rectify, hold hands and actually start a bottom-up dialogue process, and we regret that it had done it again. It's true he's softened the general accused tone of the last few weeks, but he hasn't offered anything new under the sun. Yesterday, like today, it's kept installed in a self-exculpatory, default, dialogue disguised but without the slightest self-criticism. Yesterday they announced a battery of 30 measurements, they also designed a beautiful infographic that they distributed through the media of the Union, their networks and their press notes and so on — if you take everything in this sheet. Those 30 measures, in practical terms, recover, firstly, measures from the demonized Bipartite. Secondly, they recover measures and proposals from the 2009 Commission of Inquiry conclusions — which they have also demonised —. And despite the fact that during this plenary session they talk a lot about 2009, they forget about the most important thing, which is what ended in that tragedy. Thirdly, they also propose measures that were already being done earlier, not only after the emergency. And fourthly, they also propose issues that already contemplate the legal framework, both the recent Implementing Law and the oldest Mountain Law, and which they sold as they had just discovered America. This, gentlemen of the People's Party, is not serious. Do you think it is normal for you to make a complete amendment to your policy guidelines on this matter? You think they shouldn't do anything else? Well, we think so. If they want to have credibility, if they want us to create from the opposition groups that there will really be an opportunity for dialogue and to reconsider many issues. First, they should apologize, because you can't come up with this role and not assume political responsibilities, not assume that something has done wrong. [[Applause]] Take political responsibilities, for example, for having reduced the protection lines; for having cut, precariously and dismantled the fire fighting device; for having dismantled the uxfor, the Land Bank; for having dismantled the prevention; for failing — as I said — the Forest Plan; for having eliminated mobile surveillance and also those research brigades that have not just been invented. [[Applause]] And responsibilities also for a question that we think is fundamental, which is the lack of foresight. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, really, the inevitable is a percentage, but it's not a hundred percent of what happened in October, what brought us here. We are an advanced society, with the ability to predict, with experience in situations that are not identical but have points in common. Therefore, we recognize that in the face of a fire the circumstances in which the mountain is, the time of answer or questions such as not knowing how to face a new typology of fires also affect, too. You are absolutely committed to installing that pre-defined and self-exculpatory account, but we believe that neither this Parliament nor this country can conform, after what has happened, with half-truths; we cannot conform to half-truths. Now is the time to sit down and talk, it is time to evaluate the causes and the management of the success, to define responsibilities, to speak and to listen to opposition and society, because, after nine years of political sectarianism, it is time for this to change. [[Applause]] You paralyze a model change and we cannot allow this country to waste the opportunity to make profound changes. There's a need to do this so this doesn't happen again. And for that we think, with absolute sincerity, that the best tool is a commission of study which is a true tool of research of the event and of impulse of profound changes, without limits of subjects, without limits of voices, without limits of proposals, without cancels and without a pre-written end. We believe that this Parliament owes to all the Greeks and Greeks, to those who have lost their families, to those who have lost their material, to those who have had to see the landscape in which it has grown up, to those who have been afraid, to those who have had to work in extreme conditions, to those who have uncertainty about the present and the future, to all of the Greeks and Greeks, to meet the circumstances. And for that we have to say that your proposal yesterday doesn't seem enough to us. [[Applause]] We seem to be partial and insufficient to focus a study commission solely on the forest issue. I want to repeat to you a question that you picked up by Ana Pontón yesterday, even though Mr Feijóo had made his own particular reading according to your convenience. We, the BNG, will not do what Mr. Núñez Feijóo did when he was a spokesman for the opposition group in 2006. We are not going to do that, we are not going to resign from participating in the instruments that are empowered in this Greek Parliament, but we are going to demand guarantees and we are going to demand that there are no limits. [[Applause]] And it seems to us to be insufficient, for three reasons, what they proposed yesterday. First, because it fully assumes the report of incendiary terrorism as a single cause. Secondly, because it assumes that 100 percent of what happened in October in this country was absolutely inevitable, and they elude any responsibility or need for improvement. And thirdly, because the same Government that denies that the forest issue is important, is part of the cause, wants us to agree to study this exclusively, and that is not receipt. We want, and we propose to the other groups, a committee without limits or vetoes, as has already been done in the past, because it is time to evaluate absolutely all the factors, the circumstances before; because the device was not 100 percent; which failed in the extinguishing device. Stop telling us we lied when we showed Seaga letters. Come to see Seaga's managers and get workers and workers. Knowing what happened in the emergencies. Listen to Mr. Rueda at the Plenary within two weeks? Of course. But why don't you have a commission that you can also come up with emergency orders, and workers and workers, explaining what happened? Why not? Why don't you know, within that commission, why did they take so long to ask for help? What has failed with communication and other elements? We want us to be more ambitious and ambitious. And from the conclusions that we draw between all of us, to improve. But to improve not only in the forest field, to have also the best possible emergency model, the best possible crisis management model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u104	...the best possible forest model, the best rural policy model possible. Set deadlines, measures, budgets and real policy, which does not just fall into an A4. We therefore call for the support of your votes for this committee, because we believe that, regardless of the name, it has been proved in the past that it is possible to come to very deep questions with this proposal for a study committee. And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party—and finished—we also demand support from you. And we demand it because we're asking for less than you asked for, more than you offer, and much less than you've done. At least they assume that consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u106	...—and end—they make themselves by dialogue, and that the proposal we are putting on the table is absolutely generous and absolutely necessary for this country. And that this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u108	...you must be aware of these circumstances. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u109	Thank you very much. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u110	Thank you, President. Good morning. Experts tell us that, if nothing is done to prevent it, within a period of five to ten years Galicia may suffer great fires as they are happening in our neighbouring Portugal. And as we must learn from mistakes, we believe that the example of the action of the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic after the fire and the deaths of Great Pedragon must point us out the way. And the way, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe it is a calm and calm reflection that gives us in addition to the Rules of Procedure of the House through articles 50 et seq. These articles refer to the creation of a non-permanent commission that can be doubled. Or a special analysis commission on forest fires that analyzed that took place in October 2017 and that allows us to establish possible lines of reform in the future. Or a second proposal, a second option — not to accept the first one — which could be a research commission on the wave of forest fires, which would allow us to analyze the wave of fires this October and investigate its origins, and could eventually lead us from this House to transfer the information obtained to the Prosecutor's Office, in case the Prosecutor's Office considered it necessary to begin a criminal procedure. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also from En Marea we have asked twice for the first committee, in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure — if I recall correctly — to do so. It's a special study commission. The first time we applied for it was rejected by most of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Bureau, heard the Speakers' Meeting. The second time was yesterday. This is the registration document of the request for the constitution of a special commission of study, which after President Feijóo here yesterday expressed his willingness to create a commission, now if he will be accepted by the Bureau, therefore, by most of the Popular Parliamentary Group, heard the Speakers' Meeting. In addition, the request for a committee of inquiry which has been proposed by the two parliamentary groups, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by En Marea, which we will see whether or not it is approved in the next plenary session, is what we are now asking the People's Party to do. We have two options, two possibilities. We know that the way to ask for it is through the Rules of Procedure, Article 50 et seq. And if the PP had voted in favour of the committee of study in the Bureau, this non-law proposal would no longer be necessary, because we would have opened it. He didn't. If the PP votes in favour of what we are asking for now in the Bureau, it will already be constituted. If the PP votes in favour of the committee of inquiry at the next plenary session, we would even be taking a step further and we could make effective the possibility of sending our findings to the Special Environment Prosecutor's Office. If the PP accepts the committee proposed from this Parliament, we can try to solve the problem of fires in Galicia, which are not only forest fire problems, but are a threat to the civil protection of the country. And if the PP votes in favour of the committees, the plenary will be able to detect the operational malfunctions that have been set in motion; if there have been coordination meetings of the media that take place in each forest district; if there is compatibility of communications between operations, if there are consolidated action plans; if there are additional installations for the Emergency Directorate in the case of large fires; and, from there, everything else. We can even figure out the statistical profiles of the incendiaries, which, of course, are not under the stones and go out on the 15th to burn whole Galicia as the president of the Union wants us to believe. Yes, there are. We can find out if they are mostly men; of what age they are; whether the detainees act mainly in their Town Hall or also in the outside; whether they have a history or not for forest crime; whether we can establish communications between that lady over 70 years old and that man who was roasting a fire and who escaped the fire; and whether or not there really exists that organized plot that you want to make us believe on a daily basis. And we can also say very loudly that it doesn't seem to devote all efforts to extinction to being the smartest. Spending between the Pladiga and the PDR 340 million euros a year is not very smart, because the result, the truth, is that it is and has been catastrophic. We can find all this through the committees of Articles 50 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure. This bill is great, we want to support it, we serve before it, precisely to get to those two committees. Because, even if it is now approved unanimously, you couldn't constitute the commission you are asking for in the proposal not of the law because it's not the way. The way it would be through the study commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u112	...—end, President—or the committee of inquiry that is proposed, and let us hope, that it will be approved by all members of this House, including the People's Party, after what President Feijóo said yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u114	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. At present our country is plunged into a high degree of aging, abandonment and desertification in virtually all rural areas of Galicia. This has its reflection on the territory, which we have now totally destructed, and has high risks of large-scale fires, loss of biological diversity, and most importantly, loss of social and economic dynamism in our villages and districts. The reality presented today by our rural community responds to the implementation of neoliberal policies that have been implemented over the last thirty years, to the consideration of the environment as a currency of exchange for the benefit of the great capital, or as a residual aspect in the laws that affect our towns. Privatization of the management of neighboring mountains, which look!, not all are private. Even if yesterday the president wanted to make it clear, we have private mountains, we have public mountains, and we have mountains in common that are not for nothing private. The promotion and implementation of fast-growing forest monocultures such as eucalyptus or energy crops; megaminary, as mentioned here today etc. The consideration of rural as a business place of social elites and the application of a CAP that destroys family economies for the benefit of large multinationals. We need professional criteria in developing the firefighting service, which must be public to 100 percent, as we have said here on repeated occasions. To fight fires, fires must be viewed as a country problem. We warn with this commission that today proposes the Nationalist Block Galego the need to prevent the fires throughout the year, to wager in the involvement of the people who hold the land to the value of the neighboring mountains in common and to consider extinction as a public service that must be developed with professional criteria and not as a business. Today I will assume the thesis of our president: there is incendiary terrorism. Okay. We've been incendiary terrorism for 30 years or so, how many terrorists have we taken? Very few. We know they're there and they'll take care of it again. Terrorists will be returned. What are we doing or what are we planning on doing so that this doesn't happen? Well, one of the ways we have to do this, I think it's creating this commission. The public policies that have been pursued in rural areas have proved insufficient, and we have just seen it with the misfortune of the fires that we had because there was no prevention and no extinction, beginning with the abandonment of rural areas, as we were saying. Failure to invest in public services in rural areas; reforestation by short-cycle alkton species now accounts for more than 50% of the forest area, when in 1987 it was only 3%. There is only a productive speech in the Greek administration, we have said it on repeated occasions, so we think that we must once and for all change our policies for the prevention and protection of the territory. Prevention and extinction of fires, advancing towards a policy of conservation of the Greek mountain as a fundamental part of our social and economic being. The fight against forest fires must be based on an integrated strategy, in which owners and administrations have clear competences, so that actions can be carried out in an organized and coordinated manner, progressively ensuring that preventive actions are more important within the general planning to combat forest fires and to enhance our agriculture. Yesterday the president told us that there were people who set fire to the mountain. He discovered the powder here alone, as if it never happened! He said there are people who take advantage of the most adverse weather conditions to set fire to the mountain. You've discovered the gunpowder again! I think we need a model that lasts over time, that is a fruit of consensus between social, business and political agents, and for that I think this commission will be vital. You have the responsibility and the obligation to approve this commission. Moreover, the president of Galician Union yesterday pointed out so. It is necessary to know why our mountain burns, what are the causes, why it burned so much this year 2017, and from there on we must act accordingly so that this disaster does not happen again. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. I call on Mrs Prado del Río, by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Presas, what's not serious is the non-law proposal that brings the Block to this debate today. You are asking for the creation of a study commission for the investigation of causes, management procedures and consequences of the October 2017 fire strike. And why isn't it serious? Because look, Mrs. Presas, first your proposal plays to confusion. You ask to set up a study commission for the investigation. What are we left with? Do you want a study commission or an investigation commission? In any case, whatever the form of a request was, you know that under the Rules of Procedure it is not the right one, and Mrs Pontón, who is the most veteran of this House, knows perfectly well that the commission of study is requested at the Council of Spokespersons, and does not see a proposal of no law at all. And in case I didn't know it, your opposition partners also reminded you that they used the regulatory mechanism to request this commission at the Speaker's Board. As you know, in order to establish an investigation commission, two groups need to be signed, neither is this the case. So neither study nor research. Mrs Pontón believes that as the polls of the electoral process gave her a deputy and then she pulled out six, they are thinking that they have a magnificent election result, which is the leader of the opposition and, as such, she wants to exercise as the leader of the opposition, and so she proposes this to the edge of the other groups, who have already explained it to her. But look, when Mrs Pontón entered the Chamber, there were 17 Members of the BNG; when I entered in 2009, there were 12 in the past legislation, 7; and now they are at the edge of the 1989 results, and they continue to insist on the mistake of believing that you are the heads of the opposition. Well, your opposition comrades have already told you that this was not the way, Mrs. Pontón, that you have to speak and talk — as Mrs. Presas said — at least with those of the opposition, because with the PP they have just said it is unmanageable; at least with their bench mates! But look, I'm not going to tell you, I'm going to repeat the words that Mr. Leicega and Mr. Villares have said. "They sacrificed the unity forged in this matter to settle down on a dead path." The dead way is this non-law proposition. "BNG wants to go free and has no attitude of full collaboration." "BNG is closer to propaganda than to real consensus." We give up partisanism in favor of politics with capital letters." It is clear, therefore, that you with this initiative are seeking propaganda and partyism, seeking — the greatest glory of the Block — to put on a medal regardless of the seriousness of the management policy, which is undoubtedly in the long term and not the title coup. So they show with this initiative that I'm not trustworthy. I'm not trustworthy for your opposition partners, and much less trusted for the Greeks and the Greeks, who every time they come to the polls, they tell them that they're less and less trustworthy. But well, there you go, follow that line. [[Applause]] Mrs Vilán said that they had submitted an application for a commission of study. It has not been refused, Mrs Vilán, it has been postponed at the Board of Spokespersons waiting for the presence of the President of the Board, and once the President of the Board has appeared and has already announced that the Popular Parliamentary Group is going to register the request for the establishment of a commission of study, that is the one we are going to bring to the Board of Spokespersons. It doesn't make much sense for us to vote on this commission today, because in the end, it would have to be taken to the Speaker's Board as well. So look, Mrs. Pontón, let us take the study commission to the Council of Spokespersons, not that we vote for a study commission for the investigation, we don't know very well about that. Everything you say, Mrs. Presas, is in the laws and plans, but there are no instruments to be able to do it, and those are the instruments you announced yesterday by the President of the Board in this gallery, so that the municipalities, whatever political colour they are, may have facilities to comply with the law. I'm glad you like infographics, but I hope you like measurements more. For example, until now in the abandoned lands the municipality could only enter when the file was finished, and now, as we propose, it can enter when the file is started. There's an important difference. And there is also another important difference: in 2006, Mrs. Presas, they made proposals, but neither did anyone investigate nor took responsibility, and many more hectares were burned. So don't come and tell us what they did in 2006, that we all know perfectly well what they didn't do in 2006. And now don't say they want less than what we asked for in 2006. If you want Seaga to come, come, see Mr. Peter Brea, head of the brigade and candidate for the Mayor of Carral, that on the 13th Friday, he refused to go help with the fires, because he was called and he wasn't. Let Seaga come and explain it, explain it. We're going to do things right, legally, and the PP will take the Speaker's Board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u117	Finish, please. Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u118	...to Spokesman's Board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u119	Quiet, listen to who you are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u120	He's at the tide, I know he's at the tide. It's okay, it's okay. We're not going to vote for a commission... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u121	Quiet, we're finishing up the intervention, please. Please keep quiet and listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u122	I'm talking like you guys talk about people who aren't here every day. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you're the least likely to say so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u123	Mr. Sánchez... Excuse me, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Sánchez, please, I ask you to listen to who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u124	Well, I call it in order for the first time. It's the second time you've been warned today... [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please, everybody and listen to who's in the use of the word. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, I ask you to listen to who is in the use of the word. I ask you to listen to who is in the use of the word; if not, I will have to call it in order for the second time. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please listen! Thank you very much. You can finish, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Here one only asks for respect for when one doesn't mind coming here and talking about everyone no matter, but, when they talk about theirs, watch out!, glass jaw, crystal jaw!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u126	Mr. Sánchez! Mr. Sánchez, I call him in order for a second time, and he knows what happens if he's called a third time. Please, I ask you to listen to who is in the use of the word. Yeah, no, it's not. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm asking you to listen to who's in the use of the word. Please, you're already finishing your shift. Thank you. Thank you. It doesn't justify anything. Please, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to say a few words that I'm sure you'll hear because someone said them to whom you appreciate very much: "Don't take it from Parliament." Ana Pontón, November 7, 2017. That is why they do not take the fall of Parliament, because there is a regulation, and you are jumping to the rule of law with this initiative. But look, I agree with Mr. Rodríguez that the fires are a country problem, and therefore I hope that we are all at the height of this situation and we can agree on a commission; I don't know whether of the three that I proposed to Mrs. Vilan, to which the Block proposes or to which it was registered by the PSOE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u129	...or by the tide. In any case, I hope we agree because it is essential to analyze, study and make proposals for the future to end this problem. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u130	Thank you very much. You have the floor, for the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u131	Mrs. Prado, you're so obsessed with Catalonia that you forget it's the Catalan Parliament, not the Greek Parliament, which has the leader figure of the opposition. In any case, Mrs. Ana Pontón has all the humility you lack. [[Applause]] Finally, the People's Party takes all the plenary, yesterday's session and today's, saying that the opposition's initiatives were either not to be debated or were wrong or should be withdrawn. They said, I remember, with the theme of the Touro mine, with the Camgal Plan, the Socialist Party, yesterday with the statues of Santiago, with the proposal of En Marea, with the new generation fires of the BNG and now also with this initiative. I don't know if you think the opposition groups have come here to applaud their ineptitude, but not. [[Applause]] It gives an idea of what the People's Party will be for dialogue. And when the debate doesn't suit you, something isn't regulatory, or it's out of the law, or you can't vote, or the polls or something, they always have an excuse. The same thing they said when the debate was awkward to him, when we brought up a similar proposal related to the boxes. It was an uncomfortable debate and they also said it wasn't regulatory. But I ask: if these proposals are not regulatory, why is the Bureau of Parliament, where the BNG is not, and could not manipulate anything, qualified this proposal? I say, I say! Why? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] When the debate doesn't suit them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u132	Please listen to who is in the use of the word. Listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u133	I'm not talking about it, Mr. Puy... I know why we're not at the Bureau, don't worry... but the technical question: why do you qualify if it's not regulatory? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] By the work and grace of the holy spirit?...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u134	Don't argue, Mrs. Presas. Please listen to who is in the use of the word. I ask all Members to listen to who is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u135	The strategy of the People's Party is that of "you more", "2006 more", but, from 2006, the profitable, which are those conclusions of research, they don't want to know anything. It's also the strategy of moral reform; when it's not to insult the mayors of the Nationalist Block Galego because, they say, they didn't cooperate anymore, because they insult other mayors. Even yesterday, I was amazed when at night I read in Public Square that the mayor of Nigeria, of the Socialist Party, of what Mr. Feijóo mentioned as if he had been on vacation in Madrid while he was burning Nigrán, it turns out he was recovering from an operation for giving his son a kidney. That's the morale of the People's Party! [[Applause]] So I have a lot of political differences with Mr. Leicega and Mr. Villares, because of something I am a Member of the Galician Nationalist Block, not of En Marea or of the Socialist Party, but, at least, despite the discrepancies, we are able to dialogue, even though we also show those discrepancies. And, of course, I'd be more sure to make phone calls with them than with the People's Party, which is quite less reliable, it's not going to be that they tell me about "gift gifts" and then those conversations are airborne. [[Applause]] Finally, I would like to thank En Marea and the Socialist Party for their support for this proposal — I would appreciate some silence too because I do not concentrate. I wish, Mrs Vilán, they had prospered the proposals you made, indeed, with absolute sincerity. We bring this initiative here because we think it's not a commission, that we have to talk about -- and it gives us the reason what Mr. Feijóo said yesterday and Mrs. Prado's response -- and we have to talk about what the object has to be, what it has to cover up. Then, the mechanism we use for ourselves is secondary; in fact, if In Marea and the Socialist Party agree, we are willing to sign a joint request so that you automatically believe a commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u137	But what we're not going to accept is the poisoned message of the wolf People's Party disguised as sheep that you already intend to condition when, how and under what conditions it will be the debate this country needs, because that's not good for us; that's not building a consensus. We have to discuss what the object must be and how far it should be and don't weigh and not set limits. And if we are, if you vote, with you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u139	...and, if not, unfortunately, it will be a new failure of this Parliament and this House, because that is what the country would need right now. And despite the differences...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u141	...know that we will be able from the opposition to give a message of unity and that we need to have a broad object of research and proposals. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Why do you want the use of the word? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u143	In accordance with Rule 77(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which states that any Member may request, during discussion or before voting, the reading of the rules or documents he considers leading to the illustration of the matter in question, I would ask the President of the House to read Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, which says who is entitled to request a study commission from Mr Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u144	Thank you for the clarification, Mr. Puy. I believe that all Members have an obligation to know... I am answering, thank you, and I know that they know and are aware of all the spokesmen of which are the regulatory requirements. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we continue the debate. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members, on the design by the Government of Galicia of an urgent environmental regeneration plan of the areas affected by the wave of fires registered in Galicia in mid-October 2017, as well as the restoration of the basic service supplies affected by fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u145	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, one from the Galician Nationalist Block and one from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u146	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u147	Thank you, President. I do not have the Rules of Procedure here on paper, but I think I should like to remind you, because there is a time when we read it, that Article 51 says that we can actually agree on a special committee of study by the Bureau — not the Bureau of Spokespersons, the Bureau of Parliament — not the Bureau of Parliament, the request itself, in particular, also, or two parliamentary groups, after the hearing of the Committee of Spokespersons. I mean, it's not the Speaker's Board that makes that decision, it's the Bureau, and we jointly ask En Marea for a special study commission, and you at the Bureau voted against. Yes, it was, Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] That's how it was. His majority in the Bureau voted against the first request for a special study commission. The second one you have the chance to vote in favour, listen to the Speakers' Meeting. It's true... [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I ask the President of Parliament to read Rule 51.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u148	If you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u149	Read it, Mr. President; you can, you can, read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u150	What's a unanimous request? It's just that this is new.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u151	He says expressly: "You can remember the Bureau of Parliament" — he continues — "before the hearing of the Speakers' Board"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u152	We will continue the debate, please. We will continue the debate on the initiative. I ask them to focus on this initiative, which is certainly very interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u153	He didn't remember. That's right, that's right. You checked whether there was Mesa after the Speaker's Board or not. We're not going to get into personal disqualifications, at all, but if it's true — and we thank you for the BNG spokesman, who preceded me in the word — that one can't talk about specific people when one, knowing their personal circumstances, used politically — has allowed me the license to say so — "trace" the names of people to justify their personal positions. Nigrán's mayor, Juan, has a son with a strange and very complex disease since his birth. And since he's in trouble, he had to go to Madrid to perform a kidney prayer operation. It's only compatible with his father, and his father had to go with him. And that's why I wasn't, because they were in a review on the day of the fire. Then, when he came back, he went to Chandebrit and was the first to be there. So we too would like the president of the board next time he comes to this House to apologize to the mayor of Nigeria for his words. [[Applause]] And we're going to the initiative. Of the 200,000 annual average fires in Europe 40% occur in Spain, and of every three, two in Galicia. The problem is terrible, the fires need a fight from the country and you're passive. There's no prevention or application, with high technology, fire detection. And the results are those we have, or, as Mr Fernández Couto said in that internal report of early October, catastrophic. Those are the results. And it's relatively simple, as experts tell us: climate change, drought, depopulation, the culture of fire that exists in Galicia and that we can't deny, not incendiary terrorism, the scarce promotion of reforestation with own trees, more eucalyptus, more pine trees... and this leads us to the catastrophic situation of Mr. Fernández Couto. The wave of fires burned 49,171,59 acres. On Natura Network, 11,376.69, or 23.14%. Interestingly, after the fires of 2006 — which they like to remember so much — this House worked on a study commission, finished with a report that commission about 2007 and had several conclusions, indicating that they were mandatory: First, draw up a map of forest fire risks in protected natural spaces. The second is to provide specific measures for the protection and prevention of fires in specific fire zones. The third is to draw up a plan of continence against soil erosion and hydrological risks caused by forest fires — because the report itself said: there is no empirical evidence to allow for a scenario of total absence of forest fires in the coming years; unfortunately, eleven years later, so it was. Fourthly, expanding the protected natural spaces in line with the requirements of the European Union. The fifth is to develop a plan for cleaning the beds and river banks that are a public domain space as a powerful measure of natural barriers against the spread of fires. The sixth is to develop a programme to support conservation and clean-up initiatives as suitable spaces to prevent the start and proliferation of fires. And the seventh -- there were many more, but these were about environmental protected areas -- boosting environmental districts, bringing closer to human and technical media. And the question is, 11 years later, how many of these things have you done? How many awareness campaigns do we know there's more fire activity? How much disclosure to adults, because statistically those who burn — who are neither terrorists nor incendiary nor anything in style — are adults? How much money have you used for awareness campaigns of these 340 million euros from the Pladiga and the PDR? How many people have you explained to them the consequences of the fires — maybe only the CSIC and you, since the Galician Union, haven't you? How much has it been invested in prevention to this day? Why don't you clear out the areas of toxo, which are not a priority habitat? Why didn't they put cattle in the slaughterhouse areas, which are priority habitats? How many street fringes have been reforested with native trees? Where are the plans for the recovery of the wolf and the bear? The only answer to all of this was the Vaticaned catastrophe by Mr. Fernández Couto, which took place on the 15th that Jurés had been burning since the month of September, The Ancares since the beginning of November, eleven thousand and peak acres burned and the president of the board who told us yesterday that there would be an answer for the forest spaces, especially for the Jurés and the Ancares; eleven years after 2006, and, by the truth, the current president of the board was in this House and was therefore wise, he was aware of that report. 11,376.69 burned down by fire. Ecological damage is very serious. We have to start work on environmental regeneration with urgency. I remember that after the 15th day and after that it had rained and the fires were extinguished, we were waiting for a massive information campaign to indicate that it could be done and not for regeneration; it did not go up the whole world to the mountain, to drop straw, to plant land indiscriminately, because the worst thing was to walk the burned spaces. Well, there's been no communication since the Galician Union. The first thing that came out was people on social networks asking what they could do to help. You didn't say anything, and it had to be the ecological organizations and associations that came out to give information; by the way, also through letters from ecological associations to the president of the board, asking him, please, to say something. You always come around when things happen, and that's precisely why in prevention they don't spend a single penny; not a potato, as the president of the board said this morning. We ask them to draw up an urgent plan for environmental regeneration in these protected areas, also measures and actions to combat erosion and regenerate habitats; secondly, that, as always, please, there will be an economic allocation for that plan, because, if not, it will be on wet paper; that specific details of the investments and execution deadlines and that they will be restored, as was requested in 2006, the basic service allocations that were affected by the fires. If it is true that there is that will of collaboration and petition to the Government's opposition to collaboration — that if it does it well, for our part, it is indisputable that it will have it — we ask them to do the same, please, for their part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This economic and environmental disaster is repeated. Each year, the number of burnt hectares, both forested and flat, is repeated; sometimes it burns the same surface one year after another. Subsequent erosion processes are irrecoverable. This year was certainly exceptional; periodically, I would say, exceptional, by virulence, by the burnt surface, by the ethiology of fires and by the feeling of Government anguish and deprotection with its citizens. We had to deal with solidarity. Greeders know what it's like to have no pasture and no fodder after a scarce year for the drought and too many areas of the territory. That's why, on their own, they started a trade of hay and silo cakes, of straw flakes... however much the beauty that winter can make worse. But this is not the way, too. The farmers and farmers in our country pay taxes -- well, I'm sorry, after the zero-tax government measures in rural areas, I don't know if... but, well, excuse me for the lapse. They pay taxes, direct and indirect, and they have the right to solidarity: a right. I know the government will open lines of... and, in the meantime, the cattle live in the air? No, no, no, no. The more than 50,000 hectares burnt by the October 15 disaster are there, waiting not for volunteers who with the best intentions of the world throw themselves to the mountain to try to help it and try to immediately grow millions of plants that made the ashes and avoid erosion and drag to the rivers, laughs, streams. I'll tell you what, I didn't go crazy. One of the urgent measures will have to be to go to the mountain to start the thousands of plants that the pyrophites have sown reward to the fire; a system that they use and used the eucalyptizers. It doesn't leave any footprints, it's totally natural. Shocking, isn't it? We could also make stone barriers in the cliffs to prevent the filling of streams, wells and springs. We could... the picture being given is merely environmental, without the glove and cattle appearing as priorities, having to be the society to solve this serious problem of forage depletion, which should be a priority from the point of view of animal welfare. Instead of bringing the ball from Castela to shoot from helicopters and airplanes, the proposal would be to make agreements and agreements with farmers and livestock that avoid the Natura Network to dry grass every summer in mountain meadows that are being abandoned. This would serve, on the one hand, to prevent them from continuing to lose these meadows that house habitats of community interest, and at the same time, in the case of fire, to have grass with seeds of protected native flora, which would be appropriate to recover those burnt lands, to avoid erosion, to recover the flora and not to introduce alloctone seeds with castle straw. The dried grass not used to combat erosion would be used to recover or improve the floristic biodiversity of the present meadows and pastures, by distributing the livestock to the livestock for their deployment through dispersion through the woods — with forgiveness — and the paving of the cattle, and by the fauna itself: birds, small rodents. The recovery of this rich biodiverse flora would improve the habitats for bees, butterflies... How to implement these measures? Through the PDR, with the implementation of agri-environmental measures for those farmers or farmers located on the Natura Network — The Ancares, The Courel, O Jurés — who maintain this type of meadows of high natural value and landscape, placing value on the germplasma bank of Pratensive Varieties of Agacal or the Ingacal, the most important one in the state, which is the reference bank of Pratensive Species. But re-entry and protection measures should be envisaged, consulted on the understandings, carried out the relevant environmental studies, and should be protocoled and protected by the Administration. And not now, always, because every year it burns. As long as we don't think that when there's a fire that burns up territory, it's a little bit of our territory, we'll be banalizing. In this sense, our amendment goes. Protocols with basic measures of regeneration and recovery of burnt soils, taking into account their peculiarities, must be at the disposal of the municipalities, volunteers, individuals, if necessary, so that the actions go in the right way and so that no clumsiness is committed. And so we think it must be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u156	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u157	Good morning, gentlemen. Yesterday, the president of the Galician board also offered a dialogue so that he could collect his contributions through a study commission. I think a lot of what you're quoting or recalling today could be covered in that commission. As for the work to alleviate the damage to the fires, it's been working from the first minute; first, in the design of actions for the consolidation of the soils and the restoration of burnt areas after the wave of fires. Inspections were immediately carried out on the ground to obtain the first approximations of the situation, and the land stabilization and sediment retention work was already started in the areas affected by the October fires. They have an 8 million euro budget. But, in addition, in the Jurés Natural Park and the Ancares Natural Reserve, this work is reinforced with an additional million euros. Much of the affected surface is found on high mountain soils, with high slopes, so the work will aim to prevent the trawling of the floor and other remains to the watercourses that run in the waves. The work to restabilize the floor and favor infiltration, limit the runoff and reduce the arrival of follow-up to the channels, which would contribute to the impact of water quality, is going to be done through a blanket with organic blankets. In the case of sediment retention works, biodegradable mesh barriers will be constructed, and in the curved areas these types of barriers will be installed through fixation mechanisms and materials, to avoid, precisely, runoffs. It will also be re-connected to these areas by means of manual seeding in blacks at obvious risk of destabilization and hydroseeding in areas of special sensitivity to erosion effects. The Junta from the very first moment, and the general direction, made a call, which I also want to make myself and take advantage of this platform, which is that of the Galician Parliament, for responsibility, and insist on the importance of being the technicians who determine the work to be carried out on the burnt lands, since isolated actions, such as throwing ball in the mountain indiscriminately, can harm the natural environment or entail a greater risk of fire, according to the weather conditions that may exist. As for municipal services, other of the effects of the wave of fires were the damage to certain municipalities, with social and economic repercussions. Some of these municipalities cannot, even after the incident, properly fulfil the provision of the minimum services to which they are obliged, as they have been greatly affected. To perform tasks for normal re-establishment, in these cases it is desirable to have the maximum collaboration between administrations, but not only is it desirable, is that they have the legal obligation to do so, as stated in Galicia Emergency Act, which provides that public administrations will collaborate in restoration, rehabilitation and return to normality. The Galician Union and the provincial deputies will assist in the development and execution of recovery plans. The Local Law on Basics also states that Members have to collaborate to ensure the access of the population of the municipalities affected to the set of minimum municipal competency services. So, not only depends on will and good intentions, but there is a legal obligation to do so. The law obliges administrations to study collaborative mechanisms and cooperation to perform restoration, rehabilitation and return to normality when necessary. The Galician Union for now has been the only administration that has approved urgent measures to repair the damage caused by the fires. In Decree 102 of 2017, several actions are established that are determined as necessary for recovery and return to normality in the municipalities affected by the disaster. But in that decree, too, we have the obligation to articulate mechanisms of collaboration and cooperation to perform tasks of restoration, rehabilitation and return to normality, which establishes the Emergency Law of Galicia, since it establishes the possibility of carrying out approaches to the municipalities through collaboration agreements co-financed by the Council of Galicia and the provincial deputies. So, ladies and gentlemen, our group defends that it's about working, and it's about cooperating. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u158	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u159	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We in our group will, of course, support this GNP that brings the Socialist Party, although we understand — obviously, this is not a recriminalization of the Socialist Party but of the Government itself — which is no longer urgent, it would be urgent for the Government to have acted a lot earlier. But if it hasn't been before, let it be now through this LNP, and that it can come out with a plan, even though the People's Party has already brought us forward that it won't support it. The response of the Galician Union after the fire strike is a totally cosmetic and superficial response that is not attacking decisively and ambitiously the problem we are facing. And there's already run-ins and pollution of hydrocarbon aquifers, there's already erosion, there's already loss of soil and loss of environmental value. It is already happening; therefore, the spokesperson of the People's Party cannot speak of itself acting because there are problems to this day because he has not been acting as if he should have acted. We support this urgent plan going forward; we support, of course, that it provides an economic memory and executional deadlines so that it does not remain in declarations of intentions that are used by the People's Party to make headlines and propaganda, but that it later remains on, in declarations of intentions that do not reach anywhere; and of course, restoration of basic services, because people daily consume water, every day it needs energy, every day it uses its phone, and there are many places where it is not yet restored three weeks later. Yesterday the president said very calmly, about the problems of mountain regeneration, that this is rearranged, that this is not one of the main problems. Of course not; there are many environmental values that will not re-enter after the fire. You can't take this vaguely and with so little discretion these kinds of questions. Obviously, there was a need for prior protocols that would prevent this situation, but protocols that exist or are not sufficient or do not work or start. We also feel very positive about the amendment to addendum to the Galician Nationalist Block, which wants to launch these special protocols for these types of situations. I read an interview this morning from the mayor of Entrio who was talking about how his county was a year after the fires they suffered in September last year. And he claims that there are areas that have been recovered by their own conditions on the ground naturally, but that there are other areas that have lost a lot of value and that there has been erosion, that there have been trawls and that there has been contamination of aquifers. And he explains why it was because he acted late. After this wave of fires is happening exactly the same. Obviously, we are ridiculed at the amendments made by the People's Party, which continue with urgent measures that are not working, that are not coming, that are not ambitious, that are cosmetic and superficial and that have the fundamental purpose of managing public opinion but not managing the real problem. And also the point where they say they contribute to the restoration of basic services. We've been here for three weeks, and there's a lot of places that don't have basic services, when I had to act as the government already. Of course, technicians are the ones who have to explain and those who have to determine what to do on the ground, but these technicians have to be at the disposal of the municipalities, and the municipalities are saying that no one is collaborating and that no one is helping them. The cattle eat and drink every day, people drink every day, the ground deteriorates every day, and the Galician Union is not responding as it should. We have been visiting some of the municipalities most affected by the fires these days, as recommended by the Middle Rural Counsellor, in the same appearance where he said that Cervantes was a good place to visit but not to live and in the same appearance that said that the land management did not influence the fires and that it was amended this morning by the president, speaking of land management. Obviously, we don't think there's going to be any real structural changes that change it, but at least the speech does take it, they already talk about pyrophytic plants, they even talk about climate change -- who was going to say it? -- and they also talk about mountain management. This amendment was made this morning by the president of the Middle Rural Counsellor, but yet nothing happens at all. What they're telling us everywhere is that the conditions on the mountain provided that something like this could happen. We've been saying this for a long time, but in places where we're visiting people, we're also agreeing on this. They're telling us that during the fires themselves the coordination failed and the resources failed, they're telling us today that the Union, after the fires, is neither expected nor expected, that everything has to manage the municipalities, that the agricultural farms have lost everything or much, that they've been abandoned, that the families with important losses are not being accompanied and that they're not receiving the support they need. We therefore support this initiative and ask the Government to act in real terms so that the grave environmental damage that has already happened will not go as far as possible and, at least, the subsequent costs will be minimized as much as possible. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u160	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u161	Thank you, President. Well, we like being strict. It's good to make movies that then move out. The film of homicide terrorism, of incendiary terrorism, is a film that's hard to buy out, whether it's Warner Bros or something. There are very few people who believe that, indeed, Galicia is full of incendiary terrorists, just as there are few people who cannot read — unfortunately, the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group — is not here. Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure says that — and that is the regulation, I am not reading an account — "The creation of special committees and their possible mixed or joint nature with respect to others already existing may agree to it by the Bureau of Parliament on its own initiative, of two parliamentary groups or of the fifth part of Members of the House, and after the hearing of the Speakers' Board". And, indeed, it was so requested, and at the Bureau of 31 October — this is part of the record that we can then pass to them, if they wish — says the following: "The hearing of the Speaker's Board of Auditors of 31 October 2017, the Bureau, consequently, in the light of Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure and by most, with the vote against the Second Vice-President and the Deputy Secretary, adopts the following agreement: first, it does not create a special analysis committee on forest fires in Galicia, in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the House". So you have to be strict, don't count movies and especially don't tell lies, because we're not on a bus trip with that song of "it will, it will, it will." And we want to thank the groups that will vote in favour. I can't repeat my words to the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group, but you can review not only the Rules of Procedure but also the recording of my previous intervention, and so you can't tell me that I have to learn how to read the Rules of Procedure, because I'm from public school, but read for now, I also know. It seems to us the truth is a little scandalous that the spokesperson of the People's Party comes here saying that they will continue with, that they will continue with... especially because Jurés and the Ancares had been burning more than a week and nothing went out anywhere, absolutely nothing. The public media did not tell us that there were indeed fires in protected areas. And you say that from the very first moment a call was made by the Galician Union. That's not true. The first one that made a call — in addition to social networks — was the Galician Natural History Society, which issued a communiqué saying what could be done and what could not be done and what should be done and what should not be done. With regard to amendments, we do not accept the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group — three points — the first and second points. There's nothing to go on because nothing's done, and nothing's nothing. But I am part of his third point to add to our third point: that the basic service allocations that have been affected by the fires in collaboration with other competent administrations will be restored. And we accept the amendment of the BNG, both relative to including the word "special" for the urgent plan, and including what they ask us to do as a point, but that we add as the last point — point 4 — of our non-law proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] What did you ask for the word, Mr. Puy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u163	To clarify a few words that were attributed to me in the intervention immediately before. I don't know what the minutes of the Bureau say; I don't know what they say because I'm not responsible for the minutes of the Bureau. What I do know is what was said at the Speaker's Board. When she was consulted, she was given a hearing on a request from the Socialist Group and En Marea, which said that a study commission had been set up or, in a subsidiary way, that a committee of inquiry had been conducted. And what the spokesman for most said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u164	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u165	...—and I think it is important, since there was a lot of debate on this issue—it was not that the study committee had been rejected, but simply that the subject would be dealt with at the next Bureau meeting. So that was it. There was no refusal, what was a welcome to the next Bureau...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u166	That's right. You got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u167	...to handle this. So they don't say we're vetting or voting for things we haven't done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u168	Finish it, Mr. Puy. You got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u169	The reality is just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u170	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u171	...that we said that after the presence of the president we would try that request.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u172	You got it, Mr. Puy. Thank you. You got it. I wasn't in the debate, but I know what's going on, and I think it was all clear at both the Speakers' Board and the Bureau. What is true and what I can assure you is that the Bureau of Parliament has strictly complied with the Rules of Procedure; that is clear. Yes, the Bureau strictly complied with the Rules of Procedure. No, no, that's it. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] He's done exactly what the regulation says. Man, that's it! [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] What is in the Rules of Procedure has been complied with. What's in the Rules of Procedure is done! [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And now we're going to vote, but we're going to vote something else. We're going to vote on non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u173	We begin with the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Trenor. There was a transaction pending which, if read in it... Mr. Trenor, if you read our transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u174	"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to move forward in the development of the governing plans for the use and management of the six natural parks and the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, so that it is approved within a maximum of twelve months; to ensure that the aforementioned plans contain a wide process of participation and maximum consensus with the municipalities, ecological associations and local communities of each territory; to frame these parks as the centre of the existing Galician Environmental Education Plan; and — last point — to incorporate into the new measures of the Union a specific planning of the fight against the fire for protected spaces that take into account the knowledge of the best qualified technicians in the natural parks."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u175	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Gonzalo Trenor López and seven other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia, in 2017, of the plans governing the use and management of the six natural parks of Galicia and the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u176	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Jaime Castineira. There's a transaction that brought me Mr. Castineira. It's a long transaction, all spokespersons know it, so we voted for it. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jaime Castineira Broz and six other Members, on the momentum of the Galician Union in the development of a law on the rehabilitation of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u177	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Rivas Cruz. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the creation by the Greek Government of an agency involving the various groups that make up the device for the prevention and extinction of forest fires in order to analyse the fourth and fifth generation fires, establish the right protocols of action and adapt the human and material means to these fires The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u178	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Luca Chao. There seems to be a transaction. Don't read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u179	The text would be left: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to: 1. Show your support for the actions that the Santiago de Compostela Council is taking in order to recover the statues that work illegally in the hands of the Frankish dictator's family. 2. Once I resolve the litigation brought by the Town Hall of Santiago on the property of the statues of Abraham and Isaac, if any, to collaborate with this local administration, in its rightful owner condition, in the possible restoration and value tasks of these goods. 3. Start the procedure for the BIC declaration of the previous sculptures, as announced."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. We therefore vote for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the performances that must be carried out by the Government of Greece for the restitution to the public heritage and the declaration as well of cultural interest of two statues of the Portico da Gloria of Santiago de Compostela Cathedral that are part of the exhibition on Master Mateo's work inaugurated in the palace of Xelmírez, as well as to ensure the legal protection of all the existing goods within the palace of Meirás The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u181	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea at the initiative of Mr Casal. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Luís Villares Naveira and six other Members, on the action to be taken by Junta de Galicia in connection with the project of reopening and exploiting the San Rafael copper mine, in the Town Councils of Touro and O Pino The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 41; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u182	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Maria Dolores Toja. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the adoption by the Government of Galicia of the measures necessary to activate the territorial Plan of Continences by Accidental Marine Pollution of Galicia in the affected coastal areas, in order to avoid the possible risks arising from the fire strike registered on 15 October 2017 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u183	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the establishment of a parliamentary commission to study the causes, management procedures and consequences of the fire strike in October 2017 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u184	And finally, we voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mrs. Patricia Vilán. There's a transaction that accepts part of the two amendments. If he doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u185	Thank you, President. "The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to: 1st. Designing a special urgent environmental regeneration plan for forest fire-affected areas, including measures and actions to combat erosion and to recover and re-enter affected habitats. 2nd. It provides an economic memory of this plan, detailing its investments and executional deadlines for each of the planned actions. 3rd. To restore, in collaboration with other competent administrations, basic service supplies that were affected by fires. 4th. They draw action protocols in the regeneration of burnt surfaces in general, taking into account their characteristics of soil, slope, proximity to aquifers, municipal and private betrays, streams of water and earth trawls and erotic consequences that facilitate immediate action after the fire." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. [[Pause.]] There's a technical fault, see if we can fix it. He definitely won't. To help me here, the members of the Bureau, we have to vote up our hands. So... there's better luck and everything. Affirmative votes? Well, look what luck, look how good, it's done. [[Murmurs.]] Not that I was ready. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members, on the design by the Government of Galicia of an urgent environmental regeneration plan of the areas affected by the wave of fires registered in Galicia in mid-October 2017, as well as the restoration of the basic service supplies affected by fires The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u187	Open the doors, please. We're still on the agenda. We are now debating point 5, which is the question of interpeleration. The interlocutions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the En Marea Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are in cumulative terms. They are all about the policy of the Greek Government on preventing and combating forest fires. Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the prevention of forest fires Mr Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece on the prevention and fight against forest fires La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of forest fire prevention and fight
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u188	We are starting the debate. First of all, Mr. José Antonio Quiroga Díaz of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u189	Good morning, Members, Members, Counsellor. Today we bring a concrete, very specific initiative, which talks about fire, but it also talks about prevention and, above all, about the diligence in public affairs, about measures that the Government itself undertakes to manage and execute and that precisely, due to management problems, it generates ongoing protests among the beneficiaries of these aid, because it does not matter whether there are programs, rules, provisions, if the manager then does not manage them properly or does not have enough diligence to do so and to ensure that these provisions, standards or programmes act properly for the beneficiaries and for the territory. In the face of the threat of fire that we have recently seen with dramatism as it devoured mountains, forests and infrastructures and even put people's lives in grave danger, there is no doubt that prevention measures are the best policies that can be put in place to stop and cut fire strikes. Preventive policies have a wide range of materialization: cleaning the perimeters of the nuclei, which is one of the most prominent elements — and for obvious reasons — that of the greatest media impact, but also others, such as the establishment of a good forest policy, which will be key when we have that new forest plan that will have to predict situations, plan protection ranges, typify different species according to the uses of the floor, etc., etc. The cleaning of the mountains, both managed by neighbouring communities and managed directly by the Union, is another of those pillars of preventive policy to deal with the threat of fire. Today we bring this initiative that has to do with prevention directly in the neighboring mountains, less media than the perimeters of the nucleus, but equally important, since there are many fires that start and develop in our mountains and some of them or several of them then move on to other areas. In particular, we are talking about cleaning, clearing, laying in the neighboring mountains, a good measure, an important measure, a preventive measure to be taken into account and which must, no doubt, have a great development in future years or exercises. Aid for the prevention of forest fires consisting of cleanup aids for neighbouring mountains was called at the end of December 2016, apparently long enough to solve them. No one escapes the importance of this fire prevention program, which — we repeat again — is good, as we said earlier. On May 16, 2017, the DOG published the granting of these aid, which lasted until September 30 to complete the work, with an extension until late October. The reality is that from the point of view of communication to the beneficiaries, if it passes to the phase of offers and projects — which have to wait for the verification of approved ones — and, finally, if it makes the communication to the communities of neighbouring mountains, it comes to a life-threatening time, a very important time that would waste the same communities benefiting from starting the work, as it has happened this year, at the end of June, or — which is most inconceivable — already in July, in the full period of high risk of fires. With this dynamic the mountain communities are found that it is from June - this has happened this year - or in July, in the worst cases, when they have to confirm confirmation to start the work, counting only four months to carry them out and considering that we include the extension deadline until October 31st. Just as from July 1st comes into force the prohibition of works with machinery in the mountains due to danger of fire from a certain hour, with which the operation of the works that can be carried on. This prevention task, therefore, we understand that it is slowed down or, at least, delayed or slowed down, making it impossible to carry forward effectively prevention work and, in other cases, even by making these jobs impossible. In any case, brush cleaning, pruning and other work must be carried out — we understand and understand the experts — at the end of winter, early spring and, in any case, throughout the spring. And it's precisely not the summer of the best season, season, to execute them. This situation reflects, from our point of view, the failure of the Greek Government's diligence in such a strategic matter for the Greek forest mass and even for production in general and security in the rural world. In addition, it provides that the funds provided for the prevention of fires are not used, both in this programme and in others, causing that as of September 30, 2017, where we are, according to industry sources, only 25% of the fire prevention funds are used. It should be recalled that in the period 2013 to 2016, corresponding to programme 551B, EUR 38,937,000 was no longer spent on preventive and forest infrastructure actions. And this is a little what we've come to denounce with this initiative: a failure of good management, a lack of diligence in the public sector, which then causes the measures that are focused on, which have a good focus, cannot be welcomed, they cannot be properly executed, and -- what we think is even more serious -- whether to return or in any case not to use the budgeted money for that strategic purpose, so important, on the subject that we are all dealing with these days, which is the fire and its consequences. For this reason, the Members who sign call upon the German Government in the following terms. First, does the Government consider that the deadlines for carrying out cleaning tasks in neighboring mountains are the right ones? And secondly, has the Government of Greece considered speeding up the call times, approval, final resolution, so that these fire prevention works can be carried forward by the end of the winter or, in any case, throughout the spring, how does it seem best? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u190	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u191	Good morning. Many of the questions raised by this question have already been coming out during the debate of these two days in many speeches, also in the Committee itself, but we have brought this question, because we understand that we must continue to debate the causes behind the event, because, despite the fact that we have been talking about this subject for a long time, we understand that we are faced with responses by the Government which are being insufficient and continue to insist on not making any kind of self-criticism. We understand that many of his statements try to divert attention from the real problem, because they focus only on one of the factors — that no one denies that there is this factor — that of the incendiaries, but they deny the rest of the causes, and we need to understand that to address the real problem we need to see that the causes are multiple, because, if we don't make a good diagnosis, we consider it impossible to put measures to solve the situation. And besides, we understand that there are claims that they are very irresponsible, because, for example, to say that we were faced with a totally exceptional situation for us is at least irresponsible, because what happened with the wave of fires was not a coincidence, answers to deep causes, and indeed, on many occasions in this very plenary, also in the committee itself, also outside this Parliament, many groups, many associations, many mountain communities said it could happen; without going any further, when it was the fire of Portugal; and you have repeatedly denied, and that is why it is very useful to review the hemerotheque these days, because we have memory and these things are very recent. And then you can't say that this is a coincidence, a totally exceptional situation. He could come in and there were a lot of people who were warning him. It is also important for us to understand that the framework of the debate cannot be limited to this Parliament, because the debate on the model of the country we need and what has happened is also outside this Parliament. There are a lot of people out there who are debating and who are looking for the causes and who are very clear what happened. Thousands of people have manifested themselves in the main towns in the country, demanding two questions: a model change and also demanding political responsibilities. And to all those people, the municipalities affected, the mountain communities, the workers, it's the ones we have to listen to, and, as far as they say, they're not listening, because weeks later there were mayors of municipalities with a 25 percent burnt surface that didn't have a single call from any of this government, not a single call. That's why we understand that they are not taking the necessary measures, not only at the first moment, in these critical days, but not at the end of the weeks. We think that, in addition, in all his speeches, the focus is on a very short-term vision, which, of course, we understand that there is a need for responses in the short term, urgent measures, but it is also essential that we combine them with a mid- and long-term look, and we understand that these structural measures are the ones that remain largely absent in all their speeches. They still understand forest fires as an isolated issue, when what we are dealing with is a symptom — as has been mentioned on many occasions — of a failed model, a model of a whole country that, if we don't change completely, will lead to these ecological human catastrophes being repeated without remedy. That's why, as I said, they start with a start mistake in the diagnosis, which we expect them to rectify, because if they don't, all the measures they're taking will be insufficient. Those that have just announced are insufficient, but in addition to talking about this, we have an added complication. They're constantly contradicting each other. We don't know if we believe what they write, what they legislate, what they say in their speeches or what the hemerotheque says. On the one hand, in the speeches we are listening to, there is absolutely no need to change anything of its model, that everything was done well, that everything was produced from an exceptional situation and that then all the policies that led the Government of the People's Party were correct. But on the other hand, they present measures in theory so that this doesn't happen again, understanding that if there are issues that may be likely to improve, measures, by the way, as already noted, that are already collected in the law, so they don't assume any novelty. In other cases, they even take measures that were in force until the year 2009 and that you were the ones who rejected them. That's why we don't understand this presentation of measures, what they want to move with this. I suppose what they wanted was to do was make a propaganda, a wonderful picture with thirty measures that seemed to go to the bottom of the question, but all they do is copy and paste some that already existed, retrieve some that constantly denied and put as news a few, six measures that were not collected anywhere. It is quite insulting that they announce as new measures, for example, the collaboration of the Union with the municipalities to finance the cleaning of the mountain. So, if they now put this measure in place, wouldn't it be done until now? There's a specific match in budgets, a specific match for forest fire defence agreements, which, by the way, keep exactly the same as last year, a clearly insufficient match. More money, for example, to rent private means of extinction. So, I wonder, in addition to going out with this poster, which is very nice and wonderful, how they're going to improve collaboration. There's only one way to improve collaboration, which is budgeting them, and then saying it won't be of any use if they keep the same game, because it's, as I say, insufficient. Other measures that mean they're novices: security distances. And who denied this measure? It's just that this looks almost like a joke. Or do they not remember in 2012 what happened, who modified the reform and the Fire Law and who reduced the security tracks from 100 to 50 meters? And who exactly was the driving force behind this change? Fernández-Couto. And they think that keeping the same person who's been breaking the law for so many years, or denying matters that came in writing, we're going to believe they're going to change these policies. Other measures, as I said, have been blocking them for years. How long have they been denying that forest research teams have been set up to help the police and the Civil Guard investigate the causes of the fires? As much as they now sell that they want to put these equipment into operation, it wasn't another government that denied these equipment; no, it was the People's Party, because it hasn't been in a year or two or three; unfortunately, this country has been ruling for many years, and then they can't make a whole amendment now as if they've just arrived at this government. They want a participating forest plan. And why would they want a participating forest plan if what exists is not met? And we don't say it, you don't say it to the opposition, the Board of Auditors says it. That, by the way, Mr. Fernández-Couto also said that they were uncontrastible opinions; then I don't know if sometimes opinions are valid and sometimes not anymore. They also talk about using the Land Bank. They can make the propaganda they want — we told them at the same time as the Commission —. With 87,000 euros for the Land Bank, how are we going to dynamize a tool like this one for years after dismantling it? And so, as much as they repeat that they want to dynamize the Land Bank, if they don't budget it, it's impossible. That's why we don't believe anything of your speeches at all. What we want is done, and the facts show real investments, budget allocation, and in this year's project, we don't see absolutely reflected the concern they're supposed to have in rural areas. They lied when they said this was the country's legislation, and they also lie now when they talk about fires, when they talk about the work of all those people who work in the fight against fires. The only way to recognize them is by providing them with decent working conditions; that's the only way to recognize them. The speeches give them exactly what we can tell the workers here. If they're going to continue having poor wages, working three months a year, that's not a way to recognize them. Another question that we also put in this question is about Pladiga, and neither do we find any measure in relation to Pladiga. That's why we want to ask them if they've been thinking about making self-criticism necessary to change the Pladiga as it is worth it, because this year -- it has been said on many occasions -- was presented four days before the high-risk period. The appearance of the Pladiga too — which I repeated in the Commission too — must be seen, eh!, because Fernández-Cout's statements deserve a great deal: it was a wonderful Pladiga, it was a Pladiga that was the most useful tool. A tool that was proved to have failed; 15,000 hectares was what was expected as an objective for this year; in a weekend they burned more than twice as much. And not only that, because the Pladiga has had millions of shortcomings, because it understands it as a mere trial. And, to finish with, for me, the part that's also the most important part of this interpellation is the last question, and the last question is whether they're going to assume political responsibilities. We understand not, because Mr. President's statements make us understand not, but we'll re-enact. Do you think keeping the same people who have been carrying out these policies for so many years will be able to sell that they're going to make another kind of policy? Because they're supposed to want to do another kind of policy, or that's what they're announcing. But we say again: we believe that the only thing is propaganda. So, they assume responsibilities, they talk about the set of policies for the country, because what we have to talk about is also land management, dynamization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u193	...of our rural, to curb the depopulation, recover all the lost jobs in the rural, and we don't listen to a single word, and that's the prevention policies we need. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor. This dry year where they are, the son of the previous year and the grandson of 2015, who already pointed ways. Everything seems to indicate that we are facing a climate cycle that is characterized by high temperatures at any time, the absence of rains in general and extreme drought. This brings with it a deseasonation of the dangerous times for the fires. We also came to denounce and denounce that this was true and that it was time to take this from the fires seriously. Almost all of us agreed that the Extinction Service should be strengthened and that prevention was something the Government had to take seriously. Despite the saying, the Pladiga came out with fires, late and in that way. In Portugal the new Government, seeing the accumulated chaos of fires in recent years, decided to decree a moratorium on the eucalyptus and reformulate its forest policy. Months later, in response, Pedrogon's hell left sixty- enough deaths, a hundred long wounds and terror and powerlessness in thousands of people. Here we received a lot of warnings, and a serious warning, Verín, where, by real miracle and by a man's expertise, there were no victims. And so, with continuous summer weather features, we arrived at the end of September and by decree, this government believed that the fires were retreating to rest. It was already autumn, and the calendar sent for the release of the decontinuums, 936 human troops, which, together with the municipal brigades, would also end their period, leave the mountain unprotected. On October 11th, the thing wasn't well painted and Montes' CEO warned that the situation could end in disaster. And here begins the most infamous lack of control. It's called the 436 Extinction Service and the 500 Seaga fixed-discontinuous, three months, and it's believed that it's all worked out. From there the improvisation takes power. On day 14 it was certainly known that a cyclone with excessively warm and dry winds would stumble with Galicia and leave wind held above 90 kilometres/hour. Sunday 15 sure was absolute. There was no emergency report, there was no crisis cabinet, there was no reinforcement of 112, there were no alerts to all the troops needed to shorten an expected caliber situation, the roads were not closed, there were no recommendations to the population. Everything kept the same, nothing happened. In the middle of the morning, a hot wind beat his face and announced a possible tragedy. Then improvisation and abandonment. I'd say they trusted boss Santiago and prayed. On TV and on public radio, they were replaying programs and sports. Calm down. Many again we felt the feeling of incompetence and incompetence that we felt when the Prestige, we saw ourselves sold and returned to anger and despair, and where it touched we had to improvise. That there was no water or means, because the cisterns were loaded directly from the pit. That the firemen of the Coruña saw the hours pass without being called to take a hand, because they came out on their own. The conditions were extreme, but the fuel had been served there for some time, and those who had set fire should not miss. No one's ever been asked to eat the ones we all know and they know they're the ones who're on the hook. Too bad, a lot of focus would have been avoided. Yes, the fuel was served, as a result of the chaotic policies of going, "it's going to make you." Unfavorable urbanism, with chalets and houses surrounded by pyrophytes and slaughterhouses. A network would travel harassed by the tree, which, instead of serving as cutters, was a potential and is a potential mouse nest for travellers. Everything adapted to the greatest barbarities: an abandoned, inactive and aging rural, with fuel everywhere, because no one meets the fringes of security, and for many years came the way of planting trees everywhere, especially those so-called eucalyptus and the old pines. Everything because the PP defends the business. Mr. Feijóo has moved out this morning saying that the security lines and their compliance do not go with the People's Party, it is the fault of the Town Councils and the private. It's because of the policy of criminal and terrorist afforestation that they're allowing and designing. Who allowed the forest plan to be breached? Who promoted indiscriminate planting and abandonment of agricultural activities? Because let's be clear, ladies and gentlemen, what we're discussing and judging here is a model of intensive forest exploitation, disagree with our mountain, with the characteristics of our territory, a wild monoculture that only interests a sector: pastry, Ence and the board. And these are the ones who have been violating, with their consent, the Forest Plan until they come to ridicule; they are the ones behind the recommendations for the development of the new. It's nothing to you, Counselor! You can give him the democratic appearance he wants, consult the sector, do whatever he wants, whatever he has to me. The forest model is designed and consolidated: eucalyptus with some pine, Ence, biomass, paper paste and board; atta rima! I'm sorry, one that another oak and casty (castler) to conceal, and the 10-year cycle of what experts are talking about has been fulfilled again, and will be accomplished in shorter periods, because the climate cycle is there, this dry climate cycle. Who's interested in rural or rural? You know that almost no one, the weekend hikers and four chalets filled with romantic or prehistoric nostalgia. Well, you won't, Counselor. They are increasingly the voices that cry for a functional mountain, who know of the necessity of nature for the balance of humans. They're increasingly the ones who want a live rural to live, to get healthy food and not those craps that we don't know where they come from or how they've been grown. It's increasingly the voices that excite less Ence and acolytes, less business of a few and more wealth for collectivity, which we are many, very many. Since the BNG today, we're not asking you for accounts of the fire crisis, we're asking for accounts of the chaos policy. You have to tell us and give us the reasons for so much vanity, so much diswill and so much abuse to the territory and to the people. Because you have not only allowed the progressive impoverishment of the rural economic activity, not: you have given it to you, you have squandered it in random cement and in unfavorable subsidies from Europe, you have led to a blind path tens of thousands of family farms, you have led to exodus, you have paid for abandoning the agricultural activity, you have paid for not working. Do you know how badly you've done this certainty to our people? You never believed in the potentials of the people and the territory of this country called Galicia. You are the cause of the lamentable situation in the countryside. They've been ruling us all their life at the service of the business for a few. What about the collective business? And they have to realize this disgusting thing, because it's good enough of such a lie and so much prepotence. What confidence can we have when we blame ourselves for a chaotic situation on silence and supposed incendiary plots and when people are subjected to the mutism of the media that we all pay? They have to figure out why they spend a third of the rural council budget on extinction operations, because prevention is fake. If the fire is a problem now, and before it was almost gone, can we deduce the cause? By changing your policy on rural life, we'll regain food sovereignty and the lot of social participation, the multifunctional mountain. The measures that Mr. Feijóo announced yesterday, in addition to restoring some that had set in motion Mr. Suárez Canal, do not go to the very best of the problem, is the structure to which it ends. Rural is a whole thing, and as such it must be treated. There are no mountains without agricultural crops and no agriculture and no livestock. It's been centuries that depend on each other. That's why the solution comes to be structural. Remember that Bantegal is there, not because radical nationalists put it, no. You use it, which is one of the possible solutions; don't listen, don't pollute, it's not contagious to you. Of course they have now found a mine: Bantegal will be equipped with surface thanks to the neighboring mountains that are not attached to forest exploitation; yes, those mountains that devote 20 percent to mushrooms, 20 percent to hives, 20 percent to kiwis. And they don't plant. They're not fulfilling the imperial destiny that marks them. And they'll be seized from the properties of strangers. Are you expropriating? Do you win by expropriating? For that is what they announce, because really with 87,000 euros of budget for 2018, as for 2017, Bantegal is crionized, and will continue to crionized. Look, the uxfor won't hurt them either. There were forty and I peaked in a year and peaked. The uxfor is familiar with them, you use them. They only have one defect: they must be worked. Real politics is done with effort, we have to get involved, and not all are money; we have to involve human resources, which are the most effective and most valuable. In a few years and a half, there were forty-one peaks in progress. Really, Counselor, give us back our lives, do us a favor, give us back our lives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u196	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u197	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I turn again to this House to try to clear myself, I think some of the doubts or all the doubts that are reflected in the various writings that you have recorded all these days, regardless of whether there was a part, which was that of the PSOE, which had been before the fire strike. There are several issues that I would like you to clarify to me in the time that corresponds to the posteriori, especially Mr. Rivas, because I don't know what you mean when he says why we don't invite you to dine to don't know who; then it's good to clarify yourself. And, on the other hand, you also clarify me if you call terrorists those who plant, but if you don't look like terrorists those who plant trees, but if you don't call terrorists those who set fire. I believe that, in order to be able to speak seriously about a future, it would be good for you to clarify these two issues in this regard. Regardless of what you're hoping to be able to respond to all of this, to tell you that in political responsibilities the highest responsibility is undoubtedly me, and I always act under technical criteria that I think it's good that you all know and therefore we clear from here any kind of doubt. Because since there will be clarity and transparency, and the greatest clarity and transparency I think I had it in my appearance, the president had it, but it is also necessary to keep saying how we act and why we did it. Because when you ask for responsibility, you also have to know what the work there is by means of it is, and that it is not such a simplistic vision, because the problem we are facing and what we will continue to face over the next few years, I think it needs settlement and above all a dialogue, even though there is a political riferraf, which are also legitimate. But above all, let's move certain things out of the way to focus on others. Were there any predictions? I have to say, yes, there was forecast. Can it do better? I hope you tell me how to do better. I think, after sitting with the different technicians, after talking to the different heads of service, after talking to those officials or technicians who tell you they're going to continue there -- man! because they have to stay there because they have their place, no doubt -- we find no better formula than what we did about forecasting during that weekend. First, tell them that there's a high-risk period where fires are concerned, and it's also limited to three months: it's July, August and September; and a variable time of one month; and that, in addition to being able to decree during this month at risk, and also in other times of the year, there's indeed flexibility to do so. But we have to do it under technical criteria. And when I say it under technical criteria is that, even so, I believe some of these technicians, some of those officials you say eventually ended up in court for complaints. And that's reality; and they're still on trial. Therefore, technical criteria, yes; legal argumentation, everyone in the world; and from there on, work to do the best possible. With which September 30 ended the greatest risk period of fires, but yet we saw that aging was in an extreme situation, with very low moisture content, and that led us to progressively take measures to extend the fire device. And how did it go? It's not done, Mr. Rivas, saying: September 15th, October 15th, this is chaos. No, it didn't. It was first done on Friday, October 7, where action was taken, first in Ourense province, and those measures were the following, which I want to report to you. It was necessary to incorporate the staff of the brigades of the holiday service and to authorize the replacement of the vacation staff that could not be incorporated for being away. In addition, the replacement of service brigade personnel that was in a temporary disability situation has been authorized. This was done on October 7th, we didn't make it to October 15th. On Tuesday, October 10, the declaration of a high-risk period of fires was made, until October 31st, and was made throughout Ourense, and in the forest districts of Lugo-Sarria and Terra de Lemos, in Lugo; and Ten Tabeiros, in Pontevedra. And this led to the resumption of the work of the Fire Extinction Service staff — those we have for three months — which, for the first time in history, and in October, was called back to work — these people created their jobs in the 2012 RPT — as well as the recommencing of the work of the central and provincial focal points staff. The next day, on Wednesday, in the light of the evolution of weather forecasts, it was motivated to declare itself a high-risk period of fires until October 31st, but already throughout the autonomous community. And this suggested: the resumption of the three-month work of staff throughout the autonomous community; the incorporation of the personnel of the brigades and other staff who were on vacation throughout the autonomous community was required; the night shift was reactivated, from 24 to 7 in the morning, from the entire staff of the service — because at low risk the turn is up to 4 in the morning — and the provision of services scheduled for the high-risk period on a day-to-day basis for environmental officers and service technicians was resumed voluntarily. And on Friday 13 the emergency situation was declared, which means decreeing the extension of Tragsa's order of the 26 brigades, the order of Seaga of the 125 brigades and the hiring of 3 air vehicles — 2 medium-type helicopters with brigades and 1 coordination helicopter, in addition to we had — and we warned the Ministry of the Situation, which decided to strengthen, apart from the operation he had already had in Galicia, with an amphibious aircraft based on Lavacella, the BRIF of Laza again and make it available to Galicia to UME. Of course, to have more means, this is done through the central focal point and done in coordination of the Galician Union with the MAPAMA. The same is true of UME, and for that we must declare situation one and situation two. This emergency statement was based on changing weather conditions and also fires. Look, ladies and gentlemen, on October 2nd we had forecast of rains for October 11th -- it seems like here for a month the forecasts and, therefore, these are not changing. On day 5 the forecast of rains was already delayed until October 12th. In the 9th forecast, the probability of rain already referred to from October 18th. And we made the decision to hire the staff again. And with that I suppose they will remain — even if only above — with data of a technical nature and dates, clear certain doubts that we seem to arrive on October 15 and look into the air, as if we were on vacation, without making the relevant meetings and coordinations. No, no, it's not worked that way at Galician Council, it's not worked that way at the Middle Rural Council. They don't do it that simple, because eventually the population won't believe them, and that's a danger when we stop being credible. And I can be more or less credible, but I have the papers that prove it and I have the facts beyond that they're swallowing us. The three-month discontinuing workers ended the contract on September 30th, nobody was thrown out, the contract of a staff is concluded at a given time for carrying out tasks, just like another staff, such as rescuers on the beaches. Why? Because they're tied up at that time. But on 13 October, the Meteogalicia report indicated the low probability of rain. And from Monday 16 the forecast was beyond strong winds with very high temperatures. That same day the risk of fires from IRDI is reversed and action must therefore be taken. And within these measures, I'm telling you that on Saturday, 14 the provision of services was resumed also for environmental agents and technicians, but it is no longer done on a voluntary basis, but they are notified of the obligation to have to be at their disposal. On Sunday, 15th, they are also in line with Operation 128 Seaga workers. That's the storyteller and more than nothing to keep not insisting and not to keep repeating the same thing again — that I can even transfer them in writing — because I think we must move forward and, in addition, we must move forward in a positive way. And on October 25, we decided, moreover, that this high-risk period we had to keep it until November 12. But they believe that it didn't happen because yes, it's done backed up by technical reports and, of course, always with a head up, that we're politicians. As a result of everything I've told you before, once again — I repeat — the operation that took place in October is the biggest operation that ever happened in this service and over a year, and that's the reality. With what improvisation? I understand you don't. Work? A lot. Technical reports? I think so too. And those technicians who sometimes say that they should be or not because they didn't spend 8 hours, they spent 8, 12 and 16 hours, because they had to try to do it right. It was 5,600 people who had been through that weekend and fought the fire, fought the high temperatures, fought the stormed winds and, above all, fought the greatest enemy, the one I call and the vast majority of society we call terrorists; and they are terrorists, because they lead lives, and lives are no longer able to restore them. But these terrorists, not tired of seeing how Galicia was burning and not tired of listening to both the vice president and me, who were together all day, and the brigadiers, but also the fire personnel, say, "this is a war," because it was a war, they weren't tired of seeing how burned Galicia, and from 6:00 till 12 p.m., 68 new fires were produced. That was Galician reality. But, ladies and gentlemen, we had to react, that is, it had already happened, with which questions of reaction and questions of action. What should we do after all this? Because I believe that the people who have been in front of the operation, everyone, no matter where they came out -- the volunteers, the city council staff -- everyone, we have to thank them all, and we have to do it in the name of the Greeks. We had to act, and the way we acted was to get our hands on the work and, therefore, empower it. And 20 million euros have been made available to those affected. First, thinking of people — as they could not be otherwise —; then thinking of their dwellings, their settlements, the replacement of signaling, the replacement of damaged roads; thinking of the municipalities, which actually put in their vast majority all that they had at their disposal to be able to fight against a fierce wind that attracted them to houses or that would put the fire very close to the houses, and therefore had to save lives. And measures were included, measures were taken in the various councils. And already, focusing on the Rural Media Council, it was 1.5 million euros, 1.5 million euros for repairing damage to private-owned infrastructures, for machinery, for forest equipment. And, on the other hand — as it could not be otherwise — the expenses of burnt wood, to proceed to cuts, also to proceed to its stellate. And, of course, in the farm farms that were also well damaged, both those of intensive and extensive regimes, for their infrastructures, for their machinery, but also for the food stores that were facing next year and that were left without them, or even for the hundreds of hives that had been scattered through the different places. They may benefit all those physical or legal persons who own or lease forest land, as well as the owners of agricultural holdings and landowners who suffered damage as a result of the wave of fires or the work of extinction of those fires. But not only could we think about this, we had to think about it further. And, therefore, there are laws, and those laws say that pastoral care is prohibited for at least two years in the burned areas. And there we also work, so that they don't have to suffer more than they've ever suffered. And so it's going to be exceptional, and I don't think it's easy to make that exception. It's going to be done on the mountains or on the forest land affected by the fires in order to avoid those greatest prejudices to our knights. In this way, the owners who are affected by both the last wave of fires in October and the fires produced during this summer will not have to wait for the two years that contemplate the regulations to restore that affected mass. The places where this exception will be established will be analysed — they are being analysed — and, of course, evaluated by the Rural Environment Council to determine how far we are able to reach. But we also had to think about something fundamental to our gloves, and it was the CAP. And in the CAP you also know that in the affected areas you cannot enter those lands. It will not be affected either by the consultation with the EGF, with all the indications and all the work by means of it. And so there's a job to thank the people who are getting involved, so they analyze each of the fires and make the argument accurate. And from there, tell them that we've managed to make the 2018 campaign surface acceptable for the purposes of the CAP. And we continue to work and, therefore, we dedicate EUR 1 million annually in 2017-2018 to aid designed to minimize the effects of prolonged drought and to ensure water supply to growing farms, in the scheme both extensive and intensive, for uses of both grazing and agricultural crops. And we subsidize supply rafts, brokers, supply pipes, wells, pickups and water drives, among others, as well as mobile equipment or mobile brokers so they can take their livestock, especially those that have it in isolated areas, to something as necessary as water is. And we're going to spend another 7 million euros — and they're already running — for soil consolidation and for the restoration of the burned areas. In a first phase, you're working on the 32 fires of over 300 hectares that occurred throughout 2017, and in a second phase, in those where technicians consider it necessary to act. For these actions we have 3 million euros for this year and 4 million euros for next year. All this help, of course, was explained to the sector, and it was with the sector; later it was published. And so what you're trying to do is get to each and every one of them. But not only that and we can't just go on remediating all those damage that's happened over these days. And, therefore, the president pointed out, "Let's keep working and keep listening to the municipalities," the municipalities, which actually transfer that they are unable to enforce. From then on, the rural prol will devote itself solely and exclusively throughout 2018 to forestry, mountain cleaning or other forest valuation tasks, an appropriation of EUR 7 million. But we went further, and therefore there will be mixed training and employment programs. It's very important because it's 80,000 jobs for the forests. And we need skilled labour, but we also need personal knowledge, the closest to the territory, not only so that I can act at a given time, but also for the forest to be its future. And, therefore, we get closer and closer to our mountains, know how to pee, and therefore know how to take care of them. This month is also expected to be approved by the Central Government and is also working to request the European Union Solidarity Fund, which has been set up to intervene in cases of serious natural disasters. We bet on the sector, and so I said at the budget show. Within the 500 million euros that we have of budget, 200 are destined for the forest environment, and of these 200, it has to be said that 180 are aimed at valuing, preventing and defending the mountains. In September, we made available to 422 forest owners 11.2 million euros, to increase the capacity of adaptation and environmental value of forest ecosystems and for forest prevention actions, so that the territory is prepared for the summer 2018 campaign. What's that supposed to mean? Act around 6,400 hectares of forest territory with these aids. And besides, indeed, as Mr Quiroga said, there are other aids, which are the neighbouring demos in common hand, which are not only prevention tasks, but also tasks such as creating water points, cleaning water points or infrastructures. These are called year after year. Well, it's true that this was the first year the telematic presentation was made, it's true that it gave its problems, but it's also true that we'll work everywhere so that it should take a step further and therefore agility towards next year. Thank you very much. I believe that, within the exhibition, at least certain points of the many questions that you have asked are clarified so that we can answer them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u198	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr Quiroga Díaz has the floor, in his reply, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u199	After this extensive version storytelling of facts, I thought you'd forget our proposal in particular, and you flattered us, even though it was at the end, half round, that you made that realization and that commitment of agility. Because you always assume good management, good managers, even presenting themselves as champions of public management, and reality goes on the other hand. The case that we brought here today is a clear example — and you should note why we are interested in everyone — of a very bad management that extends to other measures and programs, and this, really, believe me, have to solve it, you have to solve it. He can't stay like this, drifting. It's not enough to legislate, to program, to budget, to announce, as you did yesterday morning, a quantity, a torrent, a measure cataract, then you have to be diligent, and you, at least in this particular case that we brought here and that we could extend it to other measures and programs, they're not; they're better installed to solve these kinds of programs, these kinds of measures that are so important to the rural world. And above, in this particular case, there are still records of the year 2016 that are unpaid and that are certified, and even I have copies of some of them that have no name, but that reflect that decision-making situation in public management, and we understand that it cannot be repeated. I reiterate that we are pleased to have listened to you that you will be agitating, that you are going to propose... well, we give that vote of confidence, but you have to be aware that it is too late in managing these things so important to the rural environment, since we are talking about the management of public resources, and the reality — I repeat again — is a lot of the announcements that they make of these management champions because then things go through other avenues. And if we talk about that concrete measure that we betrayed here today, out of the 4 million budgeted at first, I'll tell you that they only delivered 3. I want to remind you that in your day — and that was at the end of June — the whole press echoed the mismanagement of this program. Of the 399 files approved at the end of July, about to enter the period of maximum fire risk, only 126 were to start the work or had started the work; this is a third, it's very little, and it's due to that delay; it's due to that lack of diligence, that we wait as soon as this year or the new call is resolved. If we talk about cleaning on the 250,000 hectares that the Union manages directly and that go to chapter VI, we have to say that in September and, in particular, in the province of Ourense, which is one of the provinces most affected by fire, the surface and the investment on the mountain surface that corresponded to these measures of deforestation, pruning, cleaning of water points, etc., was around 20%. That's the reality. You can make efficiency speeches, you can say a lot of things, but then it's reality to show the bitter face of that execution. And we're asking for something as important as prevention, both in the neighbouring mountains of particular management, and in this case what I've been referring to lately in public management, is that there is diligence, that they leave that stage of desire and that they do things well. It's very simple what we're asking for. And let them take note of that. We wait and we'll be vigilant to see if this really is telling us today that they're going to be more agile, that they're going to be more operational and that they're going to manage better is true. But believe me — you know perfectly well — that there are many — not only this, or at least a few important — programs related to prevention for those who experience, or, better said, those who are victims of mismanagement and desire. And once again, we beg you for diligence in these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Quiroga. The Parliamentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u201	Thank you, President. For us this was once again a speech on the same line as they've been doing all these days; an empty speech. And he says you can't make simple visions. I agree, but I think that from the only space where a simplistic vision is being made, it's from the Government. We've been saying for a long time that causes are multifactorial, that we have to pay attention to a lot of factors and that we cannot focus all our attention solely on one of these causes. But it's you who just want to talk about one of these causes: the incendiaries. What do they exist? We've already said it, but we have to talk about a lot more issues that are on the table in addressing the problem of fires. For example, it is significant that he devoted most of his intervention to the extinction. Our questions were not just about what happened that day to the extinction. We have to think in the medium and long term. And of all these structural policies, it's those that refuse to talk about. Not a single word of that rural model, of that country model, of that productive model; not a single word. Those are the policies that will serve to make a prevention policy. Then, as I tell you, how could you do better? In three minutes, obviously, it doesn't take time to list... many times they've been out, starting out, as I said, from this cortopracist vision and beginning to understand that rural dynamization, land management or deforestation are factors to be taken into account when we talk about forest fires, they're not foreign issues that have nothing to do with. It's a complex problem, of course, but there's been measures that have been inciting for a long time that must be put in place and that are simple. For example, the topic of protection tracks, which are now taking that action. So I wish they had that intention to take action to be fulfilled, as they are now coming out! A single, public, fire prevention and extinction service. We've been saying for a long time that they have to end the precarious service of many workers and workers working in the prevention and extinction service. They've also been refusing to increase the recruitment of these people who work for a long time. And we want you to increase your recruitment not because we get up one day and say, "We want you to hire these workers and workers." It has nothing to do with the welfare problem. It's just that it's evidence, and we don't say it either, there's a lot of people with technical studies, who love to talk about techniques, who talk about climate change. It didn't happen to us all of a sudden to talk about the destabilization of forest fires. It's a more obvious question; this April we already know what happened and this October we already know what happened. That's why we ask that recruitment be increased, because we understand that these are the people who know the territory, who know our mountains and who will be able to develop prevention tasks with the right training, because we need more trained workers, that there are some who have them, but we need a model of workers who are settled and not precarious and constantly changing these people. Another question that he didn't even appoint and to which I hope he answers me: the Pladiga. You don't think we need to change anything about the Pladiga? In the face of what happened, are you still thinking and this year they're going to introduce the Pladiga again in May, in June? Are you going to insist again that the Pladiga be a copy and catch every year, practically the same, that talks only about extinction? A Pladega that is a procedure, it's no use; it's not a Pladika that opens up to a real debate of the people involved, as it should be. And, of course, how could you do better? You could do better that day. There was no single command, as much as they repeat it. And they always say, "No, no, there's only one command, and it's collected. Well, there's a single command, but they can talk to a lot of people who've been there that day, with a lot of people working in a lot of services. Ask them about the chaos they have experienced, because, of course, then, how can they say there is a single command and why now one of the measures they take is the only command? So, did he exist before? Doesn't it exist now? What's the difference? And then I, in conclusion, see that they don't want to correct anything at all because they say and speak all the time of dialogue, of consensus, but the only thing they're trying is that the People's Party doesn't get hurt. They repeat measures only, as I say, in the short term, they speak absolutely nothing about what must be done past this initial period; but we're going to have memory and they don't fool anyone at all. To hold your hand and start working what needs to be done is self-criticism, to stop lying, to open a serious debate and not just to advertise. And by the way, when we talk about responsibilities and when we talk about cessations and resignations, we talk about political responsibilities. Our group talks about political responsibilities, it doesn't talk about technical responsibilities, because what happened is also because of the policies that the People's Party's Government has been implementing for many years, not this past year. Many years of rural depopulation, of, as I say, of disorder and chaos in our territory. And that's why I don't know if it also referred to our responsibilities, that we call for the cessation of political leaders, who know perfectly who they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u203	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Either they change the model or this is going to happen again, unfortunately. And we understand that, at least, they had to say that something could be wrong. We don't understand how, after the event, they keep insisting that everything, absolutely everything, has done well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. You have the floor, by the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, when I talk about inviting, I'm talking about something that many of us know... that is, brigadiers know more or less who plants fire, especially in high-risk areas. Not specific names, but you know the conflicts that exist in all these stories. That day you could invite a few of them to eat to keep them quiet. It's kind of a deterrent measure, you know? You know what I'm saying. Yes, yes, I am talking about political measures, not coercive; I am saying that we know the mayors — although we have been short-lived — that can be done with our means. And, above all, I think it's necessary to put out of jail a 73-year-old lady who escaped from the fire and a gentleman, Miguel, who escaped the fire too. Those aren't terrorists. The concept of terrorism, of which it allows a territory to impoverish, facilitate the fire, is a managed concept I know cheerfully; in the same way that one happily handles the concept of terrorist with someone to whom the fire escapes or someone who is ill in the head. [[Applause]] Seaga's incorporation was tattooed. They just picked up the PPE, for the first time they covered the casualties and started first in areas and after a few hours, half a day, they went to total. I was wondering where the road closure was. They're from the extraordinary measures, they're from the councils to the population, with self-protection instructions, as is done when cold waves or floods are announced. Is fire not an emergency? The biggest operation ever in October. You want us to talk about the operation? A heterogeneous operative, an operative... is an army of Pancho Villa, with all due respect to who works in it, but you provide an army of Pancho Villa, and there are brigadiers of all kinds and all colors. Everyone here is dedicated to fire and other jobs. Do we talk about GES changing bulbs and serving the cleaning of many municipalities? Are we talking about the obligation to sign papers to provide an hour more daily the Town Hall for free? Do you know how to fight what you call terrorists and we call malicious pirates or people who...? With substantive measures. What I told you about was basic measures. The security belts you threw them down. It was the result that the Rural Councillory, chaired by Suárez Canal, was seriously seated by a team to hand it over. You're the only one who did it was, when they got here, drop it down, and now they're back to getting it back. For the recovery of burnt land, you can hand, if you want, if you like, the germplasma bank of Pratensive Varieties, which we have in Agacal, in Ingacal, which is the most important in the state, and also the experience there is about these stories. You know why the fringes are not met, because neither the owners nor the municipalities see a decision in the Government to meet. That's right! You don't remember... I remember quietly... I've lived in the countryside, I've been living there all my life. No, I'm not, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u206	There's no need, there's no need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u207	You don't have to, do you, Mr. President? You don't have to. I remember in 2006 that he went down fishing on the Tambre River by an area that was at rest of pine trees and eucalyptus trees, and the woods went up above the pine trees three, four, and five meters. That never worked out. I remember that, as a result of the strips of protection and the scraps, people snore everything, all of it!, and they started to cut. Why? Because there was a decision, because they saw it was a government that ruled for everyone, for everyone! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not if I'm angry, not if I'm angry that I'm not... after what we saw this morning, that we're all very friends and we're all voting together. What happens is that later, when you entered, you cut those fringes, you came back to the position, and everyone understood the message: here, the free pipe, each one does what he wants. Answer me, Counselor: is the new Forest Plan going to start the return to the hectares that are expected as high as the 2032, or are we going to start from this vigorating reality? I mean, are you going to reduce the surface occupied by the eucalyptus and pine trees to the parameters provided by the still-lived forest plan now or are going to start from this reality, which was what I told you, already consolidated? And look, finally, will they give a chance to the common sense and the survival of this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u209	... decreeing a moratorium on the eucalyptus and ordering the mountain, revitalizing the farming activity seriously, fixing the population and giving a chance to life or are they going to continue sponsoring the business of four for no one?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. The rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. I think I have to breathe deep in order not to be angry too, as Mr. Rivas said. And believe me, Mr. Rivas -- and just like the proximity to the space where we live, or just because sometimes people like each other, it's from the people I appreciate -- I think it's happened today. Today he colluded and today he said a series of barbarities that I think he should withdraw, or at least his group should tell him that he can't tell. First, I think it's very serious that you say that the mayors know what's going on, and more than you say, that you've been mayor for four days. It's just that if some mayor knows who the fireman is in his area and doesn't say he's committing a crime, and the crime isn't serious, it's very serious. It's a barbarity! [[Applause]] Each one with his irresponsibility, but the biggest fool I've ever listened to! The Gustavo de Agolada is, thank God, in prison; thank God, the neighbors collaborated and thank God the extinction teams did very well throughout this year because, if not, there could also be some misfortune, because a brigadiest became unconscious of one of those fires. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And believe me that the mayor collaborated in the Gustavo de Agolada, did not hide the Gustavo de Agolada; with which, I think we should be a little more serious when we talk about fires because what sets fire is a terrorist, but what hides that terrorist careful with his qualification! On the other hand, when you talk about the GHGs and the work the GHGs do, they have a representative on the Fegamp, and that representative on the Fegamp evaluated the work of the GHGs. We can't say one thing on one side and say the opposite on the other. But these GES, at least 50%, believe me that they're in councils where you rule or you're co-governing; with which, watch out, because sometimes we're already about noon, maybe we're tired, maybe we're using a kind and gentle tone, which is what we should do, but through our mouths there are terrible things that come out. From then on, differences between 2007 and 2012, which we did and we didn't do and how we're doing... look, in 2007, there was total inconcretion as to what the law refers to and how we had to do the measurement to have the clean security fringes. I was mayor at the time. Impossible! Technicians see it impossible, not just politicians. There was legal insecurity. It was impossible to apply it, the concepts of the law were "around..." or "people's nucleus." From there he does a job and in 2012 he changes. And you're talking about concretion, legal security, you're talking about stopping, in the case of buildings, you're talking about perimeter closures, in gas stations and fields, you're talking about 50 meters, but not from a nucleus of population, because that's why we're talking about the limit of the urban nucleus, the rural nucleus and the urbanizable areas. That's the difference between the law of the year 2007 and the law of the year 2012; with which, you tell me, before it was 100 meters from where, if it was inapplicable? And now it's 50 meters, and everyone's clear from where they should be applied. When he says that Junta doesn't act and that, therefore, here he doesn't even meet, that he is the owner of the mountain, but neither do the mayors, I have to tell him that this year alone, in 2017, we have a total of 2,683 files. They are 2,683 files, where there was indeed a need to go to the place and check what was going on. And I think many of these files didn't even belong to the Council of Galicia, but they had to do the Town Councils. But, of course, then, I find myself in things like this, and besides what I'm going to do is cover up the name of the county. And if I were the People's Party, I'd be telling you right now: see, what are you playing at? It's not, like it could be, but it's not from the People's Party. What we cannot afford — and therefore the wisdom of once and for all must rule — is that a lady will say, "Be careful that, beside my house and in a nucleus is making a plantation, and is making a plantation of a large eucalyptal. And you know what they're answering you from this county? Well, they tell him he has to fill out a print first -- he makes a writing. I told him, you fill in a print. This print is an autoliquidation rate. It must be properly covered by this side of the bank, which must be attached to the same writing that you have submitted or the payment receipt as the corresponding income was made in accordance with the tax order of that council itself. And that order says the following: to start the file, what you have to do is deposit 100 euros, to move the technician, and you're going to check whether the lady is actually right or not. That is, Mr. Rivas, what some of the municipalities are doing; to which we have to tell them this, in no way. It doesn't surprise me that then people, in the end, are angry and angry with everyone. I think now that the time has come for everyone to assume their responsibilities. Of course, Galician Union, the first, of course. This counselor won't throw balloons out, but the law is very clear. The law is very clear and the President of the Board has appealed to this Parliament at your own request, also at your request, and in it the first thing he has said was: we have created a commission, a specific commission to seek a country agreement on forest policy. [[Applause]] But we can start working from the zero minute and without delay, because they have now a crucial moment, which is to enrich the accompanying law, and there we can work, because surely we all agree. The mayors will also agree, I'm sure, even this mayor who sets a hundred euros fee to initiate an obligation file, which is unique and exclusive to him. This proposal is endorsed, in addition, by a package of measures, and in that package of measures it goes to prevention, it goes to management, Mrs Quinteiro, and it's also going to socio-economic dynamisation, which is fundamental. And besides, the president of the board said, "Let's put the mountain in value. Of course, but apart from putting the mountain in value, we collaborate — and we are already doing so — together and municipalities to fund the cleaning of the safety strips. Let's go further! We ensure that 100 percent of the Greek municipalities have firefighters or brigades. I think what you don't have a brigade right now is because you didn't want it. It's been offered to everyone! It's just that it's eleven million euros over three years: eleven, eleven, eleven, thirty and three million euros. What he doesn't have a brigade is because he didn't want it, but it's also time to position ourselves and say, they must have the brigades, and why won't they have the brigades? The Rural Aprol, dedicated solely and exclusively to hire staff for the maintenance and enhancement of the mountain; to facilitate to act on the unknown owner plots. Indeed, it was overwhelming to be able to reach the end; for we make it easier now. Precautionary incorporation, the land bank of the unknown owner plots... and when you talk about 78,000 euros, you see, gentlemen, let's be sensible, is that we are destined for land mobility this year 22 million euros. Mobilization of abandoned lands, stricter requirements in protection bands. Then we must all be there. Participation? Of course. And I encourage all parliamentary groups to participate in the drafting of the Forest Plan. Impulse of management plans in the 19 districts, of course, starting with the most affected areas, which in this case are Ourense and Pontevedra. And help, help for the mountains to have an early-cost management tool. It's 4 million euros for two years. Dissemination campaigns. We've got to keep running broadcast campaigns, but after they don't look like they're campaigns to sell a government. No, I'm not selling a government. When we say, "I am also cutters," it's to realize that each of us can do a lot to keep no fires, and above all to the wisdom of what you tell me, that there are mayors who know who the incendiaries are, and that we have to invite those incendiaries to eat so they don't provoke their action. But what a barbarity! [[Murmurs.]] Better – it's no shame; that's what you said, and I asked, in addition, to clarify myself, and clarify it, and it was even worse – of the extensive pastoral areas in southern Galicia. In fact, we have to opt for pastoral care and for further progress in the partial restructuring, especially driven by individuals, and at present there are more than 1,000 hectares that are pushing the different neighbours to boost these partial concentrations. Administrative simplification. It's fundamental to everything, it's fundamental to get into those security tracks. It is essential to pass these farms — and not only those farms, but also those neighboring mountains in common — to the land bank. And believe me, Mr. Rivas, that we're not catching up. But do you want us to keep leaving those neighboring mountains in common with the luck of what happens or really what they want us to do is get them to produce? If they really want to be produced, they don't say we're catching them. But if you want to keep saying "incaution," because you're still with yours, we'll defend ours. That is to say, it is a continuing work in which we must all participate, and above all what we must do is refuse, denounce, repudiate and condemn the incendiaries, and whoever does not do so with his conscience! There's never a reason to set fire, there's never a reason that that fire will intentionally lead lives ahead. From here on, we'll be much better if we're united, and believe me that during these days I've been talking to a lot of people, just like I did before, and what they ask for is wisdom; unique and exclusively wisdom. We're working, and it's being done in the first phase, and if you want to know where we work this week, I also give them a chance to know, because I think it's good they know. We are working in Val (in Narón), Portomeiro (in Val do Dubra), Cervantes, Chantada, Negueira de Muñiz, Lobios, Melón, Ponteareas, Neves, Nigrán and Salvador do Mine. I think it's good that if you know that this is not the result of chance, but of a lot of people who are fighting to try to get the damage that others have done, among all the Greeks we put it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u212	Thank you, Counselor. At the end of this debate, we suspended the meeting until the 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u213	Good afternoon. We're starting the session with point 7 of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by José Manuel Pérez Seco and Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the reasons for the Galician Union not to participate in the Fairway Forum of the Way of Santiago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u214	We begin with the question of Mr. José Manuel Pérez Seco of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. After the success of the first Fairway event - Santiago Road Forum - held in 2015, a new edition will be held on the following days, 12th, 13th and 14th November. The Santiago Way Forum is the showcase to show or know the news of the sector; the meeting point between companies, institutions and tourist destinations; a commercial platform for central booking agencies, websites and tourism service and products entrepreneurs of the Santiago Way; an opportunity to get in touch with a completely new business model designed for companies in the Way. This event is a reference point for the entire professional sector around the Way or the roads and will have an important international presence. Thus, more than 30 operators from 14 different countries will be present, including Colombia, Norway, Ireland, Brazil, Uruguay, the United States, Canada, Argentina, the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany and Spain. This event will also feature seven autonomous communities, such as Asturias, Aragon, Cantabria, Castela-León, Navarre, Basque Country and Rioxa. And the municipalities will also be represented by the different roads. We failed Galician Union. The Socialists are committed to active participation in all areas that the Galician Tourism Agency can do, and in events of all kinds, national or foreign, even if they are of a private nature, such as the Santiago Road Forum. The Galician Union should cooperate at least, as other institutions do, such as the Deputation of the Crown or the Town Hall of Santiago, which do it economically and not only at the workplaces. So the Socialist Parliamentary Group asks him the following question: what is the reason why the Galician Union does not participate in Fairway? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u216	Thank you, Mr. López Seco. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pérez Seco, if the question — I understand that not, or yes, I do not know — is to discuss the quality of Fairway, there is no discussion possible, because I am not — no less — an expert on these issues — I do not know whether you are — but I have to doubt the quality of Fairway. But we're talking about a private event, a private event, promoted and promoted by private entities. So from there the rest of the question or I don't understand anything or I have to understand everything, I don't know very well. So why would I tell you this? Because -- it seems like it was you; if it wasn't you, of course it was someone from your parliamentary group -- asked the Secretary General of Tourism at your meeting to take stock of the budgets for 2018. He asked exactly the same question. The question was simple: what is the reason why the Union does not participate in Fairway?, the same as you do now here, and I, of course, have the obligation and gladly come to answer it, because the answer is very simple: the Galician Union itself participates in this event, in the Fairway, if it participates. And what's the problem? That the same thing that wasn't worth the answer you gave the other day to the Secretary General of Tourism, because it probably doesn't matter to you the answer I give you right now. It's not worth it to you nor to anyone who suggested it — and I'm telling you with all the prevention — but what do you want me to say? I can tell you here with all conviction. And someone could suggest that this question should be asked and insist that participation should be otherwise. And so he'll probably keep asking him, because he doesn't have the answer I give him. And the answer I give you is that the Galician Union participates in this event. How are we not going to participate if you talk about Santiago's Way? Look, the Director General of Cultural Heritage participates; he will participate on Monday 13 in the "Cain de Santiago: 30 years of the first cultural itinerary". Rafael Sánchez, manager of Xacobeo, will participate in the discussion tables "Capacity of load and capacity for reception on the French Way", the day 13; "Planning, coordination and digitization: English Way", the day 13; and "Invest in the Path: French Way", the day 14. Xacobeo's manager will also participate in the Outsidian Way: Other aspects of the Way panel on 14th. Communications technician Xosé Manuel Merelles, responsible for the area of communication, will participate in the table "Marca Galicia, brand: Path of Fistra and Muxia", on November 14. Therefore, the Galician Union itself participates in this event. We turn each year to half a hundred fairs that have to do with Santiago's Way. So of course we can participate, and so do, in one of the four fairs held in Galicia on the Way of Santiago or anywhere else. Hey, this is what the 300,000 pilgrims explain before this year's end. We're going to get to a historic brand. In 294,000 we are right now. So if everything goes well, we'll be there. An increase of 8.46%, 23,000 pilgrims more than in the same period of 2016, of 179 nationalities. So our duty is to support all these events.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u218	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u219	Now, if we talk about economic participation, because someone suggests we're not contributing to a private company, we're never going to agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u220	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u221	Mr. Vice-President, yes, I myself have been at the presence of the Director of the Tourism Agency, but I have put the Fairway to him as an example of the little dialogue they have with part of the tourism sector. And as a result of not collaborating economically with this event, I don't know if you have anything to see a meeting that you have, the Galician Union, with a concelebrant of your own party of the Town Hall of Santiago and the organizers themselves, where they have made a verbal commitment to collaborate with an economic amount, by the way, far less than that of the Crown Deputy. And I also have other information that, at best, the organization proposed to the Galician Board in 2014, when they started planning the 2015 event, organize this event, which is currently a reference point for the entire professional sector of the Way at the national and international level. But the German Government then mustn't have seen him with good eyes and walked away from the organization. And finally, coincidentally or not, the same day that the question was recorded in the Galician Union, you communicate to the organization that does not participate economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u222	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u223	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Pérez Seco — I mean — the answer is very simple. You give me data from the organizers, the organizers are private companies. Bring me here — and my duty is to come — to say why we don't collaborate with private companies that organize a profit event, why we don't participate economically so that profit can be what they expect. That's what you're asking me directly. That's what he asks me. So I have an obligation to come here, but I want to tell you that either I don't understand anything or I understand everything. Let those who give that data, the organizers — I insist in this House and who are in the act: private companies — that the Union, first of all, participates — I have said so — pass on to them. I think it's important that you participate in the tables I told you. And second, look! we also participate economically, through the Tourism Cluster, which participates. And who funds the Tourism Cluster in a very important part? The Galician Union. He decided to take part there. Well, there's already the economic participation of the Galician Union, if that's what you're interested in, if that's what you want. What surprises me is that you, a member of parliament, come here to ask me exactly why commitments with private organizers are not respected, if you say you have reached those commitments. Look, I don't know. What interests Galician union is the general interest; we are not interested in private interests, as some people are interested in asking me a few questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u224	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the availability by the Galician Board of Directors of a protocol of action and management of crisis communication
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u225	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u226	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Of the many issues that we have to analyze around the fire strike, one very important -- or at least so we see it from the BNG -- is information to the population. And on October 15 it became clear that the fires also made the public media burn, the public media that had an absolutely outrageous role while Galicia burned down, that they did not perform the public service function and that they left only thousands of Welsh and Welsh. [[Applause]] Not only did they not interrupt the programming, but while dozens of people were trapped in the Cañiza tunnel, what was Radio Gaga doing? Putting a soccer game in Galicia in goals. While hundreds of people had their glasses at the door of the house, what was Galician public television doing? Put on the Luar and then the Land Rober, and then Sermorua. A scandal. A radio and television that didn't meet the circumstances, that didn't fulfill their public service function and that didn't serve to meet the needs of the population that economically maintains them. And I remind them that the Galicians and the Greeks pay their pockets more than 100 million euros a year to support CRTVG, in concrete 107 million euros for the year 2018. The Director General of the Corporation, on vacations -- he recognized him himself in the follow-up commission -- and there was not a single person with enough capacity or authority to initiate a special programming for the service of the Greeks and the Greeks. It was a private channel, Spanish, La Sexta, which began to report on the situation even before the public media in our country. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the role of the Galician Union in terms of communication was no less indecent. Mr. Feijóo and his Government were more concerned about selling their self-exculpatory account than about informing the population. They spent 77,000 euros on advertising to spread their revealed truth, their official truth. Do you know how much it cost us to the Greeks and to the Greeks your ad in odd page and in all colors? 481 euros each line, 481 euros each line. Yes, since the Galician Union, it hasn't been informed about the state of the infrastructure, about self-protection measures in front of the lamps. They didn't even provide information to deny bubbles, false information that was being distributed among social networks. So let's ask you two questions, clearly: will you allow the CEO of CRTVG to appear on the follow-up commission to give explanations or will the PP veto that appearance again? And another, Mr. Rueda: do you have any crisis communication management protocol or did you just decide not to apply it on October 15th?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, all that you've told me now has already been told on Twitter and told them elsewhere, but I followed your Twitter during the fires day. And, of course, I get to think: you probably see the BNG Twitter in the morning, you see it all day, and at night you'll see the BNG Twitter again, and you'll probably wonder why they don't rule for the most absolute majority in Galicia and probably the rest of the world. Because all they say there is communication, that's what people have to do with it, and if they don't see it, neither is there any communication. [[Murmurs.]] Fortunately, there is much more than BNG Twitter, Mrs. Rodil, and therefore things are doing well in communication. Look, I suppose, after these days of trying, for land, sea and air, and from the first day they were already calling you demonstrations, when the fires were still unexplained -- that's the communication they were interested in -- from the first day they were trying to say a lot of things they also said from the first day, they were told the day that the Middle Rural Counsellor appeared yesterday when the president appeared and I suppose they'll keep saying it. But, as if they're being dismantled, there's now the fact of the communication flank, which is what they're going to start now, and they tell us a number of things that, by repeating them -- even if they're not certain -- to see if people are going to believe them, and if they don't, they put it on BNG Twitter, which is the only thing people can take as true. But it's not like that. So, I have to tell you that the communication protocols were followed in a very difficult situation, that's what I had to do, and you know it perfectly. Of course, as you don't understand how all this is organized and you understand that the director of Galician television has to answer to Parliament and you don't give orders to the Galician board, you confuse everything. I suppose, if they had a chance, they'd give him orders and ask him to keep an account if he didn't, but we're not. So the Galician Council did what it did was to report as the Galician Union. And what was done was throughout the episode of fires informing the fires of more than 20 hectares, informing those who affected natural parks, those who affected housing, when they moved on to situation 2, of course the communications crisis cabinet was created, and it was providing information, the information that was needed. They've been the phones that journalists know and recognize at their disposal to give all the information. Those were the channels of communication that journalists were addressing in search of information that then spread. The Galician Union has tried — I think it has succeeded — to give the information to the highest level. I've been the rural councillor, I've been the chairman of the control centre, I've been the director general of Montes, trying to give the centralized information, information that was available and reliable, rigorous, no bulldozer and no alarm. Then, in the second part, among other things, we can talk about the information given by Galician Television, which has absolutely nothing to do with what you say, which is exactly what BNG Twitter says. I mean, they probably won't understand, watching BNG Twitter, why they don't rule in Galicia, how they don't understand so many things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u229	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u230	Thank you, President. I see you, vice president, interested in Twitter... —No, I thanked Mr. Santalices... it's the same. [[Murmurs.]] I see you worried, don't you, so I was saying, so I was commenting on the Galician Nationalist Block in your official Twitter account. What you should be worried about is what the official Vice President of Galicia didn't say about service information during October 15, and you can consult it, because the good thing Twitter has is that you don't delete the timeline. [[Applause]] And to give you an example, look: he retweeted you when he arrived at the post of command advanced at 15 hours, at 15.06 to be exact, and then he didn't redistribute any service information until 2 am, in which they made an infographic that they hung on his official account with recommendations for the population, at 2 am; and there were 14 level 2 situations already decreed by the Rural Middle Council. [[Applause]] I ask the president of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation — we already put it in the Control Committee — the responsibilities he has. And I have to remind you that Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo has been put in your hands and you have kept him since 2009, you in your position. [[Applause]] I don't know anything about you. We are already used in this House to the fact that the only people here are the Members of the People's Party, but what we want from the BNG is that we should do self-criticism, that we should collectively make self-criticism from all possible points of view, including information and communication, which must have as its main public and aim the population. That we have to give service information and not just advertising and propaganda, that we have to tell people that infrastructure is cut and what is the situation of traffic, of rail connections, which is what we have to do if we have our lights at the door of the house. And, above all, what's not admissible, because you accuse me of everything, but don't deny that the programming that was on October 15 until 11:00 p.m....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u231	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u232	...on TV and public radio in this country was pure entertainment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close this question, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodil, look, I follow BNG's Twitter, as I follow other official accounts, to know what counts and what doesn't count, and what counts badly. And you've told a lot of bad things and done a lot of misinformation. That's why I'm telling you. And fortunately, the situation is different. But if you don't like to see what you're saying, but sometimes you have to know what's wrong with informing the population. That's why. And one of the things they tell wrong, and that they repeat many times in that posterity, that they try to make themselves true — and they won't succeed — is what the Galician Television did. They're saying, no, no, nothing has been done, I don't know until what time he said, until very late. Hey! The Galician Television, I was there, you weren't, you weren't supposed to be either, it was my duty, it was in Borbent's Peace, and they made a live connection, in the morning, to inform of the fire, that at that time it was the most serious fire that was happening. [[Murmurs.]] Live connection in the morning from Borbonne peace. Then there was a noon newspaper, which you obviously didn't see, opened with the theme of the fires, occupied more than the third part by then, at 3:00 p.m., almost 40% of that newspaper's information: the fires in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] You didn't see that, because Galician TV started to report -- I don't know what time it said -- at 4:00 or 5:00 in the morning. The noon news station has already started reporting. Then the news will be, do you know how much news you've dedicated to the news will be? According to you, it took many hours for Galician television to realize that there were fires in Galicia. Do you know how many news stories you've devoted to talking about fires? 26, 26. Then there was a special program, it was planned around 11:00 p.m.; as soon as news of the fatal victims began. Do you know how long it lasted? Until 4:00 in the morning. Do you know how many hours there were the next day on Galician TV? 16 hours talking about fires. Do you know how many Greeks connected to Galician TV news to follow the fires between the 15th and the 16th? 60%. But of course, you think that's impossible, because BNG's Twitter has already said that until 4:00 a.m. Galician TV didn't know there were fires. That's the misinformation and the posverity, which, as much as they repeat it, will neither paste them nor serve them, Mrs. Rodil. [[Applause]] But look, in any case, do you know what information is really worth, what information would be very useful to everyone? The information a Member said today in his group, according to which "no one has ever been invited to eat what we all know or know they sent him a machero; grief, many fires would be avoided." [[Murmurs.]] That was said this morning here. That information, if you have it, you have to give it, and if you don't have it, it's incredible to let a member of your group be saying that and nothing happens. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From then on, talking about information with you — I say with all due respect — seems to me very unserious and unhelpful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u235	Thank you, Vice President. From Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the view of the Government of Greece regarding the treatment given to the deadly victims of the forest fire strike of October 2017 and their families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u236	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u237	The week after the black Sunday of October 15, Mr. Vice-President, the board of directors passed a decree on 102/2017 of urgent measures to help repair the damage caused by the fires. I shall read article 6 of that decree, which speaks of "aids for death, absolute permanent disability and injuries that motivate the hospitalization of injured persons, provided that, as a result of the investigations initiated, the existence of intentionality is determined." I repeat: "always that, as a result of the research initiated, the existence of intentionality is determined". The amount of these aid amounts to EUR 75,000 per death and between EUR 60 and 103 per day of hospitalization. The worst thing is that they have small letters, such as those shocking banking contracts with abusive clauses, and they seem to be a use—let us say—of the dead people and their families—they seem to us—: Angelina Otero, Maximina Iglesias, Marcelino Martínez and Alberto Castromil and their families. What does "as a result of the investigations" mean, Mr. Vice-President? Who's going to decide that result? When? What does it mean to "determine"? Who's going to determine? When? What does "intentionality" mean? Who's gonna determine it? And while all this is determined, what? He spoke of the president of the Fire Terrorism Board, institutional and media advertising that justifies or wants to justify what this article says precisely: that the families of the dead and the wounded may receive help perhaps at a time when there is a firm judgment that proves the will of someone after many years of judicial perils that they say so. We refuse from the Socialist Parliamentary Group that seems to play this way with the pain of relatives only to achieve some kind of revenue, which we do not know which one is. And that's why the question is very simple: if your Government considers it right to treat fatal victims in the fire strike of October and their families, mainly because the President of the Board, when he left at that time of 8 that night on October 15, he said, "The aid will be immediate." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilán: Maximina, Angelina, Alberto and Marcelino, indeed. You talk about mortal victims, then you've already named them; then we're talking about people and their families. So they need help, they need help as soon as possible. And I think that's what we're doing. I think that's what's not being discussed in the question. I hope that's not the case and that the Galician Union could not act on the granting of aid more quickly and with more certainty. I'm also saying this about something we're listening to and what we can talk about. In four days, the enabling decree of the aid was passed, one week it was enabled that each council could make its calls and, instead, we chose to make a single summons, and the week of that decree were already published in the CEO and from there the period begins to be applied for. And, of course, from there we can do two things: or try to get as many more people as possible, of course to the families of the four victims, irreparable loss, but at least they will have those aids; not only the families of the four victims, but also all the people who have lost their homes, who have seen them seriously damaged, who have lost their commercial, industrial exploitations, their properties For all this are the help. So I think we should all be heading in the same direction and trying to make things easier. I'm saying this because representatives of your party, very qualified, the mayor of Ponte Caldelas, one of the candidates who are now very mediatic with that, because he doesn't take much more of the help; instead, all he says is that he already has a calculation done, discouraging the people he asks, because, total, we're not going to give them, they're very complicated, just 2%; he's done calculations, he knows how many damage they've had, he knows how many they're going to charge. And some more that was there, some statement more than helps little to get, indeed, what we're looking for and what we should all look for, which is that the help comes as soon as possible. And there was no doubt in him that the aid to the families of the four fatalities would come, without any doubt. He had no doubt that what is written in order is with all conscience. First of all, to differentiate it from aid derived from natural disasters, which would probably make processing a lot more complicated; and secondly, because we seriously believe that the vast majority of the fires that occurred not only on October 15 and 16 in Galicia, but in many other times, were fires provoked, were fires intentionally or resulting from a fire. And that's what there is, and against this we should all fight. Of course, seeing statements like those made this morning in Parliament, where what we have to do is to feed those who set the mountains on fire, is very difficult. But I think that's not the way, the way is another, the way is to stop the incendiaries, the way is to criminalize the incendiaries and the way is not to create confusion, as you draw. Hey, there's a deadline to charge the orders. You've made it obvious. Of course, it's a lot more difficult to say that it has to be two years, firm judgment and all that, what it does, in the end, is to discourage people, to think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u240	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u241	...that they can't charge and that the German Government hasn't done its job. I'm sorry, but we did. I'm asking you to row in the same direction. I see, with this kind of question, it's pretty hard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u242	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u243	Mr. Vice President, I didn't ask you or the mayor of Ponte Caldelas or ask you why you were told this morning in this House. I think I was pretty clear. I asked him by the expression "which is determined through a resolution by the willfulness to be able to charge those aids." It was the only thing I asked him. By the way, you've been recalled throughout this entire session and the past that was said in the year 2006 after the fires. For in the decree that at that time the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño issued precisely also for the aid was not said of this intentionality, it was only said that "the personal damage had its origin in the events under which this decree was regulated." But nothing has to determine any kind of intentionality. By the way, you haven't been overly attentive to what the President of the Board said this morning, because he expressly said they wouldn't have any problems yesterday — not yesterday — they wouldn't have any problem modifying what was necessary to guarantee the rights of the deceased Greeks. That's what the president of the board said. The other day, after the board of assembly, he said it was nothing but a style clause, but you come to say it's written with all consciousness -- you just said -- So explain, because there is a big difference between a style clause and being written with all consciousness, when in 2006 it was not written, either consciously or without it, there was no "intentionality" or "resolution that was determined" by anyone. So, I'm the only one who asks you, nothing else -- it's very simple -- from this parliamentary group, is whether you're going to demand that this will be demonstrated in order to blow up the aid for personal damage or not. I think with "yes" or "no" you're enough to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Close this question, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u245	Yes. Mrs. Vilan, I suppose what concerns you is that people cover, and you worry that they cover quickly, as soon as possible, and you worry about the subject of willfulness, that everything that is written in an order has to be drafted consciously, whether it's style clauses or not. Or did you, when you wrote orders, things that were more or less important, things that didn't matter so much, you wrote them anyway and you paid attention to only one part? We dedicate it to everything, whether it's style clauses or not. That's what Mr. President meant, and, of course, I've been paying attention to what he said. But every order, for it to go well and work well, has to be written with the highest consciousness. And I said the mayor of Ponte Caldelas, because he said -- and he said other representatives of the Socialist Party, and not only the Socialist Party -- that he won't charge almost anyone, 2%, that of the 90 —90 just, he already has them calculated -- 88 won't charge. Do you think that encourages people to ask for help? Do you think that makes it easier to trust? Maybe what you want is the opposite -- I don't know -- because, of course, if you wanted people to charge as soon as possible, you shouldn't make those public statements. That's why I named you Mr. Mayor of Ponte Caldelas. And speaking of willfulness, of course, what concerns you? What can be said that the fires were intended? You're talking about extracting political receding in your question and that we want, speaking of willfulness, to draw out political receding by making those statements. No, no, no, I want to tell you that it seems to you that if there's any intention that you don't draw political income, it's you. It's against the year 2006. By the way, it was 18,000 euros; now it's 75,000, if you want to make comparisons. But look, intentional, do you know what Mr. Rubalcaba, Minister of the Interior, was saying at that time? The fires of the year 2006... bother you to tell him, because, then, intentionality... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u246	Mr. Losada, please, you are not in the use of the word. Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u247	No, but Mr. Losada is quite encouraging, Mr. President. Don't worry, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u248	Quiet, quiet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u249	The fires weren't casual. In Galicia we're not fighting against the fire, we're fighting against a group of dissalbeds. But, of course, there's no intention there. Mr. Suárez Canal--"we are facing a new type of fire that is not only intentional but is trying to cause as much damage as possible and to generate fear." And there was plenty of talk about terrorist plots. That's what was said in 2006, and now you can't talk about intentionality, because that's a guarantee that people won't be charged. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What do people cover, which covers fast, that we take out indiscriminate help by adding millions and millions, how does the Deputy of Pontevedra do, or that we are concrete and say what we all believe? Look, tell me you didn't ask me about what was said this morning, but, of course, if we're going to apply in order what was said this morning, where we all know those who are incendiary but have no intention of those who are in prison and have to go out, and those who are not in prison what to do is invite them to eat instead of trying not to burn them and denounce them before the forces of order, then probably the order cannot be applied. But we want to apply the order, we want them to cover as soon as possible. It's December the date to charge. When they cover, what I hope, Mrs Vilán, is that you don't ask me another question or another statement or a parliamentary initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u251	...saying you're going to resort, that you don't want these people to cover, just because in your intention there's a political income that's good for you, it doesn't work for the victims, it doesn't work for anyone, and in the end they don't get anything at all. She's in favor. The Galician Union has done its homework and all that it does is to disturb the victims to cover their aid as soon as possible, and mustn't be like that, Mrs. Vilán. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u252	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to issue responsibilities to the AP-9 concessionaire and to avoid future new collapse situations such as the one registered on October 27 on the Rande bridge
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u253	You have the floor, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We want to talk to you today about the retentions and locks on AP-9, which have special gravity, as you know, on the Rande Bridge, which, in addition, is a recurring, repeated problem, but an avoidable problem. You know it well, that in most cases it is avoidable. There may be some accident that causes a jam, but it often happens because no action is taken, because no solutions are sought, especially because there is no powerful attitude towards the concessionaire. On April 14, 2017, in the middle of Holy Week, holder of the Vigo Lighthouse: "A monumental blockade on AP-9 outraged thousands of drivers, with queues of more than five kilometers". So the BNG presented an initiative in this Parliament, which came to the plenary in June, with concrete measures: opening a sanctioning file to the concessionaire, approving an action protocol for jammers or recovering removed personnel in the cabs of fees. Do you know what the People's Party voted on, including you, with regard to these measures? He voted against it; he voted against it, yes, Counsellor. [[Murmurs.]] The situation was repeated on Friday, October 27, with thousands of drivers again trapped on the Rande Bridge, with withholdings of more than two hours on AP-9, with chaos and a monumental collapse also on the PO-551 in Moaña, with locks that reached the edge of the Town Hall of Cangas; a monumental chaos aggravated also by the courting of the works of the Morrazo corridor. Also with an avoidable cause, Counselor, because it was caused by asphalt works on the Rande bridge that removed a lane and that made thousands of drivers trapped in that trap because no notice was made of that cut or foresight measures were taken to prevent that chaos produced. That's why we want to ask you today what is the position of the Board and its council, because who gives the floor. We want to know if they will continue with this attitude of complicity and permissiveness with the concessionaire, which, as you know, has as a majority partner an American company called Corsario, which has benefits of more than 45 million euros in 2016; if they will continue to be permissive accomplices with this company; if they will justify, as Mr. Puy did in his day, the jams, because we all suffer jams when we go to the beaches in summer, but the reality is that they cannot be hidden. They are responsible, because now, in addition, you have had that wonderful idea of creating a bilateral commission with Development, at the highest level, to make daily management of all decisions related to AP-9. So we expect them to make decisions after these last events. So we want to ask if they're going to take action at once, if they're going to demand the encouragement to take them, which is who really has the competences about the concessionaire, because you know they've watched the transfer to this community shamefully. Because until now we're tired of what he did...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u255	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u256	...announcing us and that he didn't do anything. So the concrete proposal is if there's any measure, some solution, when you're going to do something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u257	Thank you. You got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u258	...to avoid these jams.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u259	Thank you, Mr Bará. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u260	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, since the German Government, we've had a great deal of concern, also great interest, for AP-9. It's an infrastructure that will reverse the territory where 60% of the Greeks live, connects five of the big cities, and therefore we've seen an active policy in relation to AP-9, worrying about the quality of the service, claiming and demanding the ownership of AP-9, because of course we're convinced that having direct management will mean better quality of the service. And, Mr Bará, for our part there was never any change of opinion, there were no changes of criterion, not like others, that were silent when they ruled and then claimed when they were in opposition. That government won't rest and it won't be in accordance with the maximum, the ownership of AP-9, and, until we get that, which is the maximum, we'll be demanding from the point of view of the quality of the service. And I think I have to say that we have never achieved as much as we have so far, because this is the first time that we have a joint commission to have a voice in relation to AP-9, also the first time that works are being done for capacity expansion. He knows that there are works being done in Santiago, expanding the capacity in Santiago's circumvaluation. In Vigo, as you commented, on the Rande bridge, which is essential especially to avoid collapses, and some works in which we are doing a special follow-up, because on the Rande bridge, also in the Vigo area, we are performing the Morrazo corridor and thanks to this continuous follow-up by the Galician Board because the vehicles of origin destination of the Morrazo can use both the external lanes of the Rande bridge and the branch of the Rande bridge itself. So follow-up and coordinated work. And, Mr. Bará, you will agree with me that the works are necessary, that they are being executed, and will also agree with me that all the works often involve incidences in traffic and carry together nuisances, disturbances that are often inevitable. But in any case, we must certainly put all the necessary means to minimize those incidents and affect from the very least possible point of view the users of the AP-9 motorway. And so we've always sued him to the Ministry of Development. We're always asking you, and also in committee, in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures, as we think it was an exceptional situation on October 27, and we're working on that bilateral commission. I think this is giving results and I think that measures have been reinforced that have avoided jams, as you know, reopening to traffic the cars closed in the AP-9 and in the Morrazo corridor, measures that I believe have been effective. And in the face of exceptional situations, Mr Bará, we will continue to insist on and call for necessary measures to prevent users from being affected by the incidences that can cause all the works that, as you know, are under way. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u261	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u262	Look, Counselor, there are situations that are inevitable, but last October 27 was perfectly avoidable, because they did works on a Friday morning eight o'clock, i.e., peak hour, that cut off a lane from Rande's bridge, without any prediction, without any warning and creating a monumental collapse. That can't be allowed. And you, because you set up this bilateral commission, you have to take decisive measures, and measures, to sanction the concessionaire, to prevent situations like these from happening again, because they have a bilateral commission, for something it has to do. And, of course, you say that they demand ownership, transfer, the truth is, they're not successful, because you eventually do what they're told in Madrid, and you're very consistent, but they vote for something in the morning here and they're against it in Madrid. In the end they have to sing, they have to do what they're told in Madrid, as they did in this case with AP-9. And now they want to sell us, in addition, that they're going to make a multimillionaire savings by 2048, when that savings, Counsellor, is the result of the new calculation system that the Ministry of Development set up to compensate the concessionary company for the fees of AP-9 in Vigo-O Morrazo and La Coruña-Betanzos. Look, I read the State's Official Gazette, which I suppose will not lie: "The new compensation amounts calculated with the new system are below the commitment of authorized expenditure, which allows and motivates the General Administration of the State to fully assume funding." I mean, it's a savings made by the new calculation system. And they're also recognizing that there's been an illicit enrichment by the dealership over every year. We also hope that they will do something to claim the refund of those amounts that have been duly admitted, according to the Official State Gazette, by the concessionaire, because it is already quite complicated and to allow this company to do everything. Therefore, I urge you, Counselor: they were preventable those locks. Are you going to defend the collective interest or that of a private company? Did they end the abuse of the beaches? They opened...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u263	Thank you, Mr Bará, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u264	...as proposed here, an investigation into the quality of the service to the concessionary company? Are you going to do that research?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u265	Thank you, Mr Bará. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u266	Thank you, President. The only Government that has left armoured the rise of the toll as a result of AP-9 works knows that it is in the Official Gazette of November 24, 2011: José Blanco, Minister of Development, Socialist Party, who ruled with you in the Bipartite; 1% cumulative and the armored agreement with the concessionaire; the Socialist Party, who ruled with you. That's the official state bulletin. In any case, there's a difference when you rule and we rule. When you rule, you vote against the transfer; now, in the opposition, you claim. And, in fact, when they rule, they make agreements that force the Greeks to pay, like, so far, since 2006, 60 million euros and a mortgage of 400 million from here on. Thanks to this government, because these 400 million euros won't have to pay them to the Greeks. Yes, yes, the payout at the Morrazo. [[Murmurs.]] And they still deceive the Greeks by saying that if the title is of the Unity of Galicia because it will come to be free. That's a lie, you know, because here's a heritage responsibility to pay. We, on the other hand, are consistent. We always defend the same and for the first time we have participated in AP-9, we achieve for the first time that since 2006 we do not have to pay 7 million euros a year for a fee that is of state ownership; these 7 million euros as of 2018 we will be able to allocate them to works that will inhabit our territory. So an important measure: to avoid 400 million euros that pay the Greeks for the convention signed by you. And, Mr Bará, they don't have the exclusive defense of the Greeks. Yours, of course, is to shut up and vote against the transfer and pay money when they rule, and we are working to achieve results; results, yes, I think they're in sight. We're vigilant, we're demanding, and we're demanding, of course, yes, because we always defend that a fee has to be matched with an excellent quality of service. And since the same day the incidents occurred, on October 27th, on the same day, I have been addressed to the Secretary of State, by letter and by e-mail, and also to the dealership. I didn't wait until the 30th, as you recorded in the initiative, to worry about the matter. From the first day I've been directed to ask about the situation. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] We are asking for information, we know that they have taken measures, of course, yes, we do not look elsewhere, and we have been concerned from the very first moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u267	Mr. Bará, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u268	From the first day I've been directed, on the 27th, and you, however, waited on the 30th; we, from the first moment. So we're not like each other. We have been acting from the very first moment on, exceptional measures to exceptional situations, and therefore acting from the very first moment on with diligence, vigilance and of course demanding. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u269	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luís Villares Naveira and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, about the actions planned by the Galician Union to prevent the closure of Esteiro SAU Conserveira by Calvo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u270	Whenever you want, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u271	Counsellor, today is here Marimena Santiago, Susana Saborido, Loli Piñeiro and Carlos Canai. You don't know who I am, because you have no interest, but these people belong to the Committee of Foreign Conservation Companies, although it's better to call them Calvo-Steer, to understand us better. They're here today because the Galician Union repeatedly refuses to receive them, you and the Industry Councillor in particular. And they're here, as they can't tell you directly at a meeting, to ask you a question, through this deputy: what will you do to prevent the closure of your company and the loss of 300 jobs? I'm going to go ahead of your answer, because I know it. It's not a transfer, it's a company closure, with very serious consequences for Calvo Estero's direct template, but also for indirect employment and the economy of its environment. In Calvo-Steer work 100 people, mostly women, in their fixed staff, but also 120 people with temporary contracts, and around the company there are activities that generate about 100 jobs. There are 300 direct and indirect jobs linked to a company. I don't know if you know, but Calvo Estero is the main factory between Girl and Carnota. Girl, Serra de Outes, Muros and Carnota cannot afford to close the main industrial plant of this entire region, which has been generating jobs and wealth in that area for thirty years. There's no reason to shut down the company. We're talking about the Calvo Conservation Group, 600 million euros of billing last year, 50 million profits last year, 16 million euros of dividends last year, and he claims he doesn't have 1 million euros to modernize the Calvo Estero facilities. That's your argument. And when he says he's going to move the template, what he's saying is that he's going to close a productive center that's the main company between Noia and Carnota and he's going to leave 300 people on the street. The Galician Union cannot be an accomplice to this decision, for two obvious reasons. First, that a private company is never exactly a private company that is at the mercy of the economy and society. And secondly, because Calvo-Esteiro receives dozens, dozens of millions of euros in grants, which deserve them, in its process of internationalization and technological development. I'll ask you the questions:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u272	Thank you, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u273	...why don't they get the Business Committee and the unions? Why do you refuse? Second, what will the Galician Union do to prevent the main industry from closing down between Girl and Carnota?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u274	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Casal, Mr. Lago — sorry — I also want to address the people who accompany you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is, a mistake seems to me I can have. I know you're the only ones who're never wrong and the only ones who never make a mistake. Sometimes they talk with some inaccuracy, but it's something we're already used to. I'm not happy to meet the people you cited me and were upstairs. I honestly don't think they asked me for even a meeting, but maybe that's what you miss. Look, we, in the case of Esteiro-Muros, are going to do what we've been doing since the year 2009: working for trying to keep jobs in an industry as important to Galicia as the canning industry, trying to go to the most generation of jobs, of course yes. And what's happening on Calvo's plant in Esteiro is at no time unknown to us. Since the end of September, we've been aware of the company's intention to close this production centre on January 1, 2018, because we've already had to analyze with the company itself and with trade union representatives the consequences of this decision. I think you have to recognize, the same thing that we all have to do, that this is a business decision and that it is therefore necessary to manage this decision with the utmost regard to legality. Moreover, I also assure you that there is currently no support granted in Calvo from any public administration to link the aid to the maintenance or permanence of this activity. In fact, the Esteiro plant in Calvo believes that the latest aid it received was still in force on IFOP, and from that it has already passed two European sea fishing funds. What we really need to remember is that Calvo doesn't shut down his activity in Galicia, what he does is move the activity to the center he has in Carballo. He has a commitment to invest more than 25 million euros in updating Calvo's plant, and what I also know is that there is a decision of about 100 people that you well said you work in Esteiro, who have expressed their willingness to sit and negotiate with the company which would be the conditions for that transfer. We know that the conditions that are being fought are the relocation of all the employees of Esteiro in Carballo, are the recognition of the transfer time as time worked and also assume by the company the cost of the transfer itself. We know it's not the same move 70 kilometers than having the job near the house, but these are the negotiations that are open between the company and the union representatives. What I want to tell you is that all these issues have already been analyzed in the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, by the General Employment Secretary, and by the Director General of Fisheries and Technological Innovation, at a meeting they held with the Wall Council authorities, where they were open even to study possibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u277	...that they can come to give a solution to the plant in Esteiro, either by a company that is willing to maintain the activity there or even by the workers themselves who want, through some association formula, to continue to keep the work there. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u278	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u279	I can't give credit to what I just heard, I can't give credit. The Galician Union here has just stated that it is a direct accomplice to Calvo's management in the closure of the main industrial company between Noia and Carnota. And Galician Union looks good. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, you don't know the company committee because if you refused to receive it, and it's very easy, they're up there, it's very easy. When the question comes to an end, summon them and meet with them and face to face and explain this decision to them. Counsellor, we're talking about about about 300 women who started working there thirty years ago, who are 50 years old, who have very little chance of finding a job again in their life, and all you have to say to the Galician Council is that this is a private company that is going to make a decision about which has no ability to interfere. Is that what you're saying? Are you saying that the German Government, in the face of this economic and social drama in a territory, is not going to do anything, nothing? I can't give credit to what you're saying. Look, in this plenary -- and I'd like it to have been today, in addition to you, the Industry Advisor -- always accuses En Marea that we want to close companies, and always the list is of companies that haven't shut down, and when we want to talk about concrete, real, closed companies, the Union of Galicia says it's not their competition. But is that your position? Counsellor, there is in the area, also within the People's Party of that region, a unanimous position to defend employment, industry, that company, the economy of the area. That's what we're defending, we're defending the maintenance and continuity of the External Conservatories, and the Galician Union, which has absolute interrelationship with the Calvo group, which has subsidized it, not linked to the generation of jobs — don't make tricks — linked to globalization, internationalization, to the technological investment that companies have, will you say, is it incapable of negotiating with the company? Is that your position?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u280	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u281	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u282	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u283	Are you going to receive the company committee when this meeting is over?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u284	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Close shift, sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, I'm going to get the company committee when you're right to ask me for a meeting; I can't get them right now, because they didn't ask me for a meeting. [[Applause]] But you come here to say a number of things that I've heard of everything in this Parliament. I'm hearing you don't believe in the Constitution or respect the Constitution, but you don't believe in business freedom either? But come tell me that I'm complicit in who! I'm not complicit in anyone. And for us, for the representatives of the Government of Galicia, and also for the Members of the People's Party, every time a company shuts down for us is a drama, and what we put on is working to see how we can solve that drama. And that's why I'm telling you that there's been a meeting to see if there's any chance that the ship of that company that's going to close in Esteiro can be reopened, whether it's with any help we can give you from the Fisheries Council or from the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, as well as with the help of cooperativeism if the workers themselves want to bet on setting up a new company in this area. But look, you come here and fool us all: you're going to close the biggest job industry in this area. Hey, sir, don't despise the rest of the industries. The Wall Congress itself has 202 partners, the Noia Congress has more than 1,500 partners working in the shellfish, there we have a haliotis aquaculture plant. I don't want you to shut off Esteiro's plant, but I can't tell you it's a private company that's keeping its jobs, and I'm telling you that right now you have no help from the Galician board linked to the stay of that company in that area. I believe that we must respect the relationship that the owners of the company have with the representatives of the workers, they are sitting on a negotiating table to see what the conditions of the transfer are, and, in addition, there is a commitment already made before the mayor of the Wall Council to make in that council, on the first days of January, a series of cooperativeism to teach people what possibilities they have to continue with their jobs in that area as well. They have the help of the LAGs. We have a thousand formulas to help people who want to keep their business, but don't ask me to intervene in a private company, because I won't, because I respect the freedom of all businessmen to keep their activities. But don't confuse people, Mr. Lago, or lie. I get everyone, and when they're good to ask me for an interview, of course I'll get them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u286	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Martín Fernández Prado, from G.P. Popular, on the balance of the Galician Union with regard to its policy of promoting the specialization of university campuses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u287	Whenever you want, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u288	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, good afternoon. As the question said, the Galician Union and the three public universities in Galicia come to work in recent years within the Galician university system in a participatory and dialogueal way, reaching agreements in many cases unanimously on important decisions that will mark and direct university policies in the coming years, the truth — and frankly — I believe that in a correct way, and that is why it is not difficult for me to give you my and my group's congratulations for this dialogue and for these numerous agreements reached in recent years with the Galician university system. It is known — I believe that throughout the world — that one of the most difficult, more complicated aspects of university policy — and above all because of having three universities in Galicia — is the definition of the map of qualifications and also the specialization of university campuses that make this system more sustainable and coherent, given the duplication in some cases, and it is a subject that often lends itself to localism. Aware that this is an important issue -- as I said -- the Union and the three universities are working on this modernization or reform of the titration map, and they tend to want to push a specialization to make these campuses more competitive and that respond to the current demands of society. In the words of the council itself, with the ultimate object of getting this reform of the titration map and achieving a harmonic university system to achieve specialized, collaborative and internationalized universities. Within the university system it was agreed that priorities for new degrees and masters should be adjusted to demands and implementation of titrations that fit the campus specialization. This specialization will enable the universities of Greece to achieve greater competitiveness in relation to other national and international centres, to be more attractive to teachers and students, to be more efficient in available resources and to improve significantly in scientific research and production. Given that there has been a significant time working on this specialization of campuses and on the rationalization of the titles that are given in the Greek university system, the parliamentarians we have signed this question ask you the following question: what does the Galician Union balance in its policy of promoting the specialization of university campuses?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u289	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u290	Well, thank you very much, President. Mr President, you ask us what is the balance we are taking from the progressive process of specialization of university campuses in Galicia. Obviously, our balance is a positive balance. This is a process that has begun a number of years ago, it is a process of direct collaboration, real collaboration and constructive collaboration between the three universities and between the Galician Union, understanding that it is positive both for the university and, above all, for society. It's a positive collaboration that we see both in the progressive specialization of campuses and also in the new titration map that we've recently introduced. Specialization is not a whim, it's not an occurrence, it's not something that happens to a group of people, it's a necessity. And it is a fundamental and basic need to respond, on the one hand, to the demands of society and, on the other hand, also to the needs of an increasingly globalized, increasingly competitive world, where it is necessary to bet on and push on what we can be good and what we can in some way have an impact no longer regional, but also national and international. Therefore, the strategic bet on campus specialization by the Galician Council is a determined bet: a bet that enables campuses — fundamentally peripheral campuses — to have their own identity, which may have a greater connection with their surroundings, with the productive sectors of their surroundings; a bet that gives greater visibility to university activities on their campus; which also enables campuses to have a recognition of research and teaching activity, and of transfer, on campuses; and, of which, in Galicia, I think we can be proud of being pioneers at the national level, first at Vigo University, with the Campus do Mar, and at the University of Santiago, with the Campus Vida, but later on with the rest of the campuses. At the Sea Campus we're betting for its growing specialization with the launch of the Sea Campus at ETEA. With the Campus Life — in this case in Santiago de Compostela, in the USC — he is reinforcing his specialization with the new Faculty of Medicine. And on the rest of the campus there's also an important bet: in Lugo, with Campus Terra; in Ourense, with Campus Water; in Ferrol, with Campus Industrial, where we provide resources, agreements, lines of work and specific specialization. And we're also working at the Innova Campus and the Sustainability Campus in the Coruña; at the Crea Campus in Pontevedra; at the Vigo Technological Campus; and at the Citizenship Campus in Santiago. Finally, Galicia may be proud to be a pioneer in specialization. It's a strategic bet of the Galician Union in coordination with the three universities, and frankly, it's giving good and positive results to the university and Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u291	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u292	Well, thank you very much again, Counselor, for the clarifications on the subjects of specialization. I'd like to... I don't know if I could also value or deepen in the last agreements as to the new degrees, as well as the proposals or the rationalization agreements of existing degrees, of which we can say they don't meet the desirable demand. And so I don't know if I could also make some clarification on the subjects of this specialization, as they're turning into modernization and internationalization of what I was talking about on college campuses. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u293	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u294	Well, thank you very much, honourable Member. As you know, a few days ago, we, together with the principals of the three universities, presented the new offer of titrations until 2020. It's a reform of an important silence and, to some extent, it's a pioneer step in Spain. It's the first time in an autonomic university system to plan together with the colleges of this autonomic system and also with the Galician Union. It is, to some extent, a pioneer step in Spain and something that basically aims to adapt to society. He plans that the university will gradually adapt to who he has to serve. The university has to serve society, it has to give students opportunities and it has to respond to the social and productive demands of the territory in which it is encased. With which this is a pioneering roadmap in Spain, it is the first time — as I have already said — that a medium-term planning of the academic offer between the Administration and universities is done with the objective of meeting the needs of students and society. Basically with a series of parameters, there is a fundamental point and it is that the supply does not increase, that does not increase the size; that is, it does not increase the number of offered squares. They can be replaced, they're replacing low demand or very low demand races for new races. And those who enter news into the system must be done at the expense of having squares taken from other titrations, campuses or the center itself in which they are implanted, with the aim of not increasing their number, the size of the system. There are a number of key parameters that have a lot to do with specialization. It introduces 14 new degrees that have to do with specialization and also professional profiles for the future. There are 8 unique titles, titles that we understand are essential and indispensable to the system. Eight titrations were gradually withdrawn because they had no demand from the students. They're going to be redefine in this period, too, those duplicate titles that have a low demand or that have to adapt to market needs. There will also be an important bet for inter-university collaboration with inter-university degrees, we already have one, the degree of landscape between La Coruña and Santiago, in this case at Campus de Lugo. And we also have a bet on what are the double degrees to give an extra education to the student and also to favor employability in our students. In any case, we're talking about concrete titles, tremendously associated with specialization. Let's think, for example, of the Ferrol Campus, with a title that has to do with the fashion world, with the industrial management of fashion. Or think of the Campus de Lugo, with a specialization that has to do with, for example, agro-robiotics or biochemistry, always oriented to the agroforestry world. Finally, these are lines of work that together, on the one hand, specialization and on the other hand the new offer of titrations, are oriented...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u296	...to give an answer to society, which, ultimately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u297	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u298	...is the one who owes himself to the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u299	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Mr Abel Fermin Losada Álvarez of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination of the possibility of providing postobrigatory education studies to the town of Salceda de Caselas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u300	Question by Mr Luis Álvarez Martínez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u301	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, after the bad mouse that has just made Mr. Fernández Prado pass by with his singular polluter in question, I will try not to sink into his tension and lower the intensity of the question he wanted to pose with regard to the situation of the municipality of Salceda de Caselas, in the province of Pontevedra. If at any point you feel that my conclusion is excessive, raise your hand and try to lower it. You see, as you know, in the case of Salceda de Caselas... no, I say it because Mr. Martín Prado attended or saw the presentation of the university map because he saved us this time of tension at full, just as we all suffered. Look, I said it's an important and serious subject, and that's why we brought it to this plenary, and I ask you expressly. In the Salceda de Caselas council, three essential problems are concentrated on the schooling of the student. First of all, it is a council that — as you are sure you know — experiences a population growth and an increase in the number of births which is itself an anomaly with respect to those we came from Galicia from the interior. I mean, it's a municipality where more and more children are born, and that's good news, especially for those who are dedicated to the world of education, because otherwise maybe we had to close the company. Parallel to that reality there is another one that that council has no centre where the student can follow postobrigatory teaching studies. I mean, we have a primary education center, we have a public center [...], but the student who wants, legitimately, to follow postobrigatory teachings has to go to other municipalities, be it the Salvation of Mine, be it Vigo, be it the Porriño, etc.; but you can't even pursue the bachelor's teaching in this county. But I'm saying it's not the only problem, because you know that at the beginning of this course there were some differences between the size of the school buses that were planned for the start of the course and the students who were to be transported from the place. And thanks to the intervention of the mothers and parents of the students, and to the intervention of the Civil Traffic Guard and to prevent these transports from working in such a dangerous way for the student. Finally, all this information leads us to put the question to the Education Council very seriously, and through this plenary to the counsellor responsible for this advice: what is the intention of this council regarding the possibility of providing the Salceda Council of Houses with at least a bachelor's degree so that they are not forced in many cases, in addition, to assume the cost of the school transport of a post-war teaching? Reality that doesn't occur in other centers of the autonomous community, where it's the counsellorship that allows students to travel in other transports.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u302	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez, for your fine irony that undoubtedly has to do with you from the lands of Lugo; of which I am also, even if it is only ecclesiastical. But we certainly know the school needs of Salceda de Caselas, as we know those of the whole region. And, obviously, we have a basic premise that is always met, which is to guarantee the schooling of any student. We are aware of the educational, demographic and territorial situation of Salceda de Caselas. It's a territory that is in a densely populated area, with a very diffuse, very dispersed population, and a territorial continuum that is next to significant population poles like Ponteareas, like Tui, as well as the Porriño, even as Salvaterra. And the fixed picture of the educational network is what you described. There's just one CRA; there's a primary and childhood education CEP, the Altamira, which has a high density of students; and there's a high school, the Ruby Stones, an IES where ESO is given. And in postobrigatory teachings — the Bachelor’s degree and vocational training — the student of this town goes to the institutes around it, which are often closer to many settlements in this municipality than the municipal capital itself. I mean, we're in a territorial continuum of a high population density. Well, this is something that happens and it's very normal in other municipalities in Galicia, not just in this one. But -- as I told you -- we are aware of the geographic situation and the demographic situation of this territory; in fact, by 2010, we wanted to make a new center and the council couldn't do it because the county was unable to put land at the disposal of the self-government to do so. And we are aware that it is necessary to increase what is the educational offer. We are aware that priority needs to be given. And we're also aware that we have a high enrolment in children and primary. We're aware and we're taking action. We're actually working on an expansion of the Altamira school in childhood and primary. They're still not closing the data, but we're talking about around four and a half million euros to increase what's school, what's CEIP Altamira. That doesn't mean we forget about high school or postobrigatory equipment. Obviously, we are careful to see how demography evolves and how the demand for postobrigatory studies evolves. But right now the priority we have is to increase, the primary center, without closing the data, around four and a half million euros of investment. Why? Because we're aware that there's an increase in the license plate, we're fully aware. And, in fact, the technical unit is already working on that matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u304	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u305	And I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u306	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u307	...to be aware of this situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u308	Thank you, Counselor, you have another turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u309	...we plan this enlargement, which obviously does not prevent us from being alert to what may happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u310	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u311	Yes, thank you. We're working on that is the answer. I suppose it won't be so complicated -- and I say it with knowledge of cause -- to resize a primary and childhood education center with 4 more classes, 6, 7, 8 or 9, because it's about getting the population birth data in that county. Frankly, if you're having trouble or you're tired, or overdoing, I'll give it to you at the end of this intervention. Anyway, you speak from a geographical point of view, of that continuum, which is the Town Hall of Salceda de Caselas, indeed, with other boundaries. And I also agree that there are localities or parishes of Salceda de Caselas that are closer than the capitality of other institutes, but that doesn't take away at all, because that reality is given in many more places in Galicia. It is given, for example — imaginary — to the Soutomaior council, and I do not want to confront the neighbors of Salceda de Caselas with Soutomaior, who are above them from the same province, we are not going to have a problem. You just know that in Soutomaior County you're going to make a new institute, it's already budgeted, they have the budget fixed in the 2018 budgets. And I'm going to tell you one thing, in Soutomaior's Town Hall, which deserves a high school, like not!, there are almost half of the post-war students in Salceda de Caselas. You don't come to me with the eternal problem of land disposal, it's a matter of will. Of course, if the will parallels it with a certain affinity or political equality, it is much easier to carry out. Of course, in Salceda de Caselas, regardless of whether we hear in this plenary whenever the greatest interest is Galicia, Galicia and Galicia, they are also Greeks, they are also from Pontevedra and they will have the same rights as other municipalities. However, it would be interesting that, in the last part of this question, you, first of all, have concreteized us, for the representatives of the elected citizenship of the Salceda Council of Houses that accompany us, what are the deadlines for that extension of the primary education school...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u312	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u313	...and if, in fact, they have firm intentions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u315	...to expand the postobrigatory teachings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u316	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Close this question, Mr. Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u317	Mr. Álvarez, the "we're working on it" may seem like a slogan, but you can be sure it's not a slogan. We're working on it. And if there are representatives of the Salceda de Caselas municipal government here, you can be absolutely sure that you're working on an expansion to do it right away. You're the technical unit profiling the volume. We're talking about four classes, maybe five, maybe three. We're talking about around 4 lessons based on demographic forecast and on existing spaces. And we're talking about an investment of half a million euros. In the end, Mr. Álvarez, as time always gives and takes away reasons, you'll see that what you're saying here is going to be fulfilled, with greater or lesser concretion, but if you're going to comply scrupulously. There's actually a difference between Soutomairo and Salceda from Caselas. In 2010 this council was asked for land and it was not given, and the work could not be done. And it would be the first time a school is built on land that is not handed over by a local administration; it would be the first time. In any case, Mr. Álvarez, you also know that there's never enough time to do everything, but it's also true that there's always enough time to do the things that are most important; and here the most important, no doubt, is to extend the CEIP Altamira. Why? Because in a very short period of time we'll grow 100 plates, in a little while. Why? Because there's a demographic forecast, but it's going to take a number of years to figure out if that population expansion reaches post-obrigatory education services. We are aware of evolution, and we are also aware of how demand and supply evolves in its environment, because, as you also said, we are in a space where there is a tremendous linkage and an urban continuum where it's very difficult to know where one municipality starts and ends another, because it's an area with a very dense population and a very strong continuum. It's not guaranteed more or better schooling because it's in the center of the city capital, but we're talking about densities, we're talking about proximity to its very easy surroundings, which we have to see in the medium term how it evolves. Our immediate commitment is to expand CEIP and to be aware of demographic developments and the evolution of educational supply in the environment in which Salceda de Caselas is located, to see if in the future it is necessary or not necessary to start postobrigatory education. In any case, both in Tui, and in Porriño, and in Salvaterra, and in Vigo, where Salceda students go, there is more than guaranteed offer in both the Bachelor's degree and the different cycles of FP, and that is a guarantee to promote the schooling of these students. With which it is important right now to respond to the immediate need. And finished as I started, you can't do everything at once, there's never enough time to do everything at once. But it's also quite true that you should always prioritize and that there's always time or we should have enough time, enough time, to do the most important things. And the most important thing right now at Salceda de Caselas is to expand the school, and so we're going to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u318	Thank you, Counselor. Please inform the sea councillor. [[Pause.]] Thank you. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia in relation to the data published by Anfaco-Cecopesca in June 2017 concerning exports of the conservation sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u319	Question by Mr López Crespo of the People's Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u320	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, Counselor. It's a conservatory. We are in a globalized world, where the frenetic trade intensity in all facets of industry is very intense. And within a very favourable prison for our Galicia, which is the sea-industry chain, there is a branch that is the conservation industry. The important conservation industry in Galicia represents nothing more and nothing less than 12,000 jobs. Galicia accounts for 3% of GDP, represents 86% of the production of cannery in Spain and occupies the second place in the world-wide production after Thailand. You have to know a little bit about the sector to know that they are very ambitious entrepreneurs in the non-commercial and economic sense, but rather about perpetuating those companies that were born there by the craftsmanship of centuries ago and that they are now keeping themselves in enormous competitiveness by advances in technology, by advances in the media. There are those over sixty companies in our territory in Galicia, which have a very significant and very important production. Well, by July, we know the results of the export index these companies had abroad, the importance they have — I repeat — for the world of work and for the economic balance of our Galicia. Given the importance of this sector, and the influence of its economic data on the viability and sustainability of this sector, we ask you: what assessment does the autonomous government of the public made data on the exports of the canned sector by Anfaco-Cecopesca last July? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u321	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u322	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. López Crespo, as you well point out, the assessment we can make of the data from the Greek Conservative industry is in this case positive, both in its present and in its evolution, and we hope to be able to continue to count on this positive data, given, as you well said, the strategic character of these companies in the activity of the marine industry chain. Today we have a mining industry -- a conservation industry that is firmly implanted abroad thanks to its competitiveness. And we're seeing the data from the conservation get a positive balance year after year. So, in this first half of the year, we have the best data in the last historical decade, with an increase of 22% per annum. That data was positive thanks to more than 103,000 tonnes of exported products, which had an implication of more than 470 million euros, and which are also added to those that have already been obtained in recent years, especially in 2016. In the last year, we had positive data in several terms as well, because it increased production by 0.7% in volume and 1.1% in value; exports increased by 5.9 % and reached 178,559 tons, which came to mark the continuing line of this semester; and they also kept growth in employment by more than 5% in new jobs, and that's really remarkable, because, as you well pointed out, there are more than 12,000 people working in these companies, and 70% of contracts are undefined. But if this data is important, it's not enough, we want to go a little further. That's why the German Government has been and will be next to this sector to support it in its planning feasibility. So we have made the new strategy plan for the conservation, with the horizon 2020 and also with budgetary support, because we are going to re-edit the commitment made to the transformation industry into nearly 100 million euros for this period 2014-2020, and these 100 million to the more than 260 million that have been made available since 2009. This is — we understand from our point of view — full and direct support for an industry that, as we say, generates so much wealth in Galicia, and we hope that it will continue on this positive balance. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u323	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Lopez Crespo's reply, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u324	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. We know the fragility of the conservation world, companies with large investments and small commercial margins. They're management specialists, and that's to be valued, and politicians, who have something to do with the economy of Galicia, are important to tell you. There's a little footprint along the way, like the one that was spoken of in previous questions from this full. But those traces can have a solution, and they don't always answer and are solved with political criteria. There are other criteria where politics can't sometimes, and in any case, it shouldn't get a hand. We know that leading this sector depends on world circumstances, so we must take these situations into account when assessing the set and the facts that hit our conservatories in Galicia. That is why we think it is right to consider that the markets will be the real playing field for the competitiveness and sustainability of our companies. So let us ask again this question: what measures are you planning to take forward the Council of the Sea to strengthen this competitiveness in the markets? Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u325	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Close this question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. López-Crespo, look, the measures we're working on are already collected in the Conservation Plan, and they are the ones that are based on five fundamental lines. The first one is to facilitate the conditions of access to raw materials, which is the fundamental element in which we have to work so that our industries can have access to raw materials that then turn into Galicia and that make us give that highest value added to our production, which is 25 times greater than that of the rest of the European Union. We also set up measures to consolidate existing companies. They are measures designed to strengthen internationalisation; not to invest abroad, as some may wish, but to help them present our products on other markets at the international level. Also measures aimed at consolidating the reputation of our product. We understand that the quality we work with here in Galicia is a distinguishing element in order to be able to position ourselves in other markets around the world, so we also have measures to strengthen this improvement of the reputation of our product. Measures to strengthen competitiveness through aid for R & D+i, because it is very necessary that they continue to be innovative and that our companies continue to work more effectively and more efficiently. Measures aimed at ensuring continuity, growth, stability and quality of employment. We've already said before that nearly 70% of the jobs in the canning industry are fixed jobs, and we want that data to still increase. So we also make a budget bet with these measures. So in 2018 we increased the budget by 55% to help the transformation industries, and also in the funds that lead to the search and consolidation of new markets, increasing this line by 37%. We understand that we must continue to support these companies, because the export figures of the products of the sea grow seven times as much of the gross domestic product as the rest of the companies do, and that data makes Galicia the tenth of the world's export ranking today. I think they're all very positive data and that that's why there must also be a commitment by the Government of Galicia to bet on this industry so important to our marine industry chain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u327	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the number of new maritime operating permits convened for 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u328	Question by Mrs Salorio Porral of the People's Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u329	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Sea Council manages its budget and Community funds to boost the productivity of fishing, diversify the activities of the sea and take advantage of its potential. The Greek strategy is based on instruments such as GALP and blue growth, two lines based on two basic aspects: cooperation with the sector and co-governance. These principles have also guided the change in direction of fund management since 2009. The invoicing record obtained in 2016 in the first sale of offshore products, about EUR 500 million, was one of the results achieved, as well as the positive evolution of the sector's employment in the last year and the brake on the fall of ship figures. In addition, it highlighted the importance of recovering nearly 8 million square metres from shellfish areas between 2010 and 2015 with a regeneration plan and an investment of about 5 million euros in 170 projects carried out by the confrereries and association entities that promoted the increase of operating permits from 2014 for the first time since 2000. The average income for 2016 was the highest in the historical series, 27% more, and has grown 22% since 2009. The recovery and improvement of marine habitats is one of the priority and continuity lines for the new legislation. The seafood sector has a very important socio-economic weight in many areas of our coast, as it is an important employment activity for men and especially for women on our coast. The operating permit is a fundamental requirement to be able to carry out that activity with all guarantees. We know that squares are always convened after checking the feasibility situation in technical reports, and always taking into account the compatibility and sustainability of resources and socio-economic criteria. In 2016 278 permex of shellfish was summoned on foot and 11 of shellfish on board. Mrs. Quintana, our question about this today is: how many permex were summoned for this year 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Salorio. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u331	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Salorio, as you well say, shellfish is a professional activity of great social impact in coastal areas. So since the sea council, we've been working on a single goal since 2009, and this is to increase the number of people who can engage in this activity of the seafood on foot. This work we've seen doing it in three ways. In the environmental field — as you well said — trying to re-establish unproductive areas and, working with the confrereries, looking for projects that contribute to increasing productivity in different areas. Also in the economic field, and in this I think we're on the right track, because since 2009 the average income has grown by 22%. And also in the social field, that is, the number of operating permits we have increased. The year 2015 was where we could have a positive balance with the number of increases in operating permits, which, as you well said, are automatically related to the production capacity that our banks have. By 2017, the joint work we've done with the confrries has to call 217 new permex for walking and 48 for specific resources; more specifically, it would be 30 to realize, 3 for hedgehog and 15 for polychets. This completes the highest number of access to new work formulas that we have been able to give since 2009. In addition, we must also point out that 61 powers have been granted for the mariner to the fleet; that is, crew members who can be enveloped in the boats, who will also exercise the activity of the mariner from their own vessel. Since then — and going back to seafood on foot — we need to replace and increase the number of people who are retiring, thus making the generational relief so necessary in this sector, and I think we are going along the right path. I repeat, 265 new permits convened for 2017 on foot in the seafood, or the same thing, more than 50% of the squares that we need to cover in the next five years — we would need to cover 490 — to produce the generational relief of this collective. In the same way, I also repeat the rise of income, and we work so that this average of 2016, the highest in the historical series, with 27% above the middle level, is kept for 2017, and we even hope that it can be improved. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u332	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Salorio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u333	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your explanation and for your work in behalf of the sector. In general evolution, 2015 was the first year of the historic series started with the professionalization of activity in 2000, with the number of permitx from seafood on foot. Of all the above, it is concluded that the average annual number of permex at the PP stage is almost twice as many of the ones granted annually by the Bipartite, 70% more. I share with you that we're going the right way. Others don't think the same thing, even if the numbers are soft. They're still installed in a supposed statement we promise 20,000 permex. I don't know if they pulled it out, because they couldn't prove what they said. We know what we promise and what we're doing. They are still installed in the critical lack of data, meaningless. They've even come to criticize that we repeat the 8 million square meters, but new data comes and their tendon will fall. Why are new projects developing in the regeneration of unproductive areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Salorio. Closing time for this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Salorio, indeed, between 2010 and 2015 has recovered 8 million square meters. Thanks to the recovery from these unproductive areas, we were able to start generating new jobs in different coastal areas. But we didn't stop there, and last year we approved 170 projects for the regeneration of unproductive areas that also helped us to make 2016 the year the most permex could increase, and we followed this line. In 2017, 36 projects have already been approved, in agreement with the confrereries, and so we will continue until the end of 2020, where we plan to distribute among the people who help the confreres develop their projects, helping them pay the salaries of all biologists and the technical assistance they work with by recovering unproductive areas, a figure — as I told them earlier — that will encompass the 490 new operating permits, which will make us have the highest number of permits throughout the decade. Someone's talking about a 20,000 number. Of course, if we were going before the professionalism of marsqueo, when a lot of people who were engaged in the other activity asked for a month's vacation for the month of October to go to work for the marsqueo without any kind of permission, those for me were not seafarers, they were people who were dedicated to using a resource that gave us the sea to be able to have a salary supplement. Since the year 2000, when we started the professionalization of shellfish, it's when we can actually talk about this sector as a professional sector, and at that time there were 4,000 shellfishers, or 6,000, as I was told the other day, or 20,000, and I never said I wanted to go back to 20,000. I'm a sensible person, I'm a consistent person, and I'm one of the people I think before I give numbers of operating permits to give what we have to make sure that those people who access a permit have some job opportunities and get the performance of that job. That is why we have always accompanied the regeneration of unproductive areas with the granting of new permits. That's our line of work, and others, if they say, say. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-08-DSPG047.u336	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. So finish the full here. Good afternoon.
