ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The session is open. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament, so we will not proceed to its reading. Mr Luis Bará, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, for family reasons, and Mr Antonio Mouriño, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, for a health problem. We're on the agenda, point 1. Full debate of the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u2	Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor to present the bill. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today to the plenary session of Parliament to present the draft budget law of the Council of Galicia for 2017. The Greek Government brings to the House three fundamental objectives: to consolidate economic recovery; to deepen the creation of more and better employment, and to give priority to the collectives who are still suffering the effects of the last economic crisis. They are very important budgets, because they are the first of a legislation in which an economic recovery needs to be universally completed, which increasingly benefits more Greeks and Greeks, but which still does not reach the others. The latter, the most difficult ones — I insist — will be the priority of the Government of Greece, not only this year, but during the next four exercises. Ladies and gentlemen, we've done a lot, but there's a lot left to do. In order to meet all that's left to be done, we've already traced the roadmap for the next four years. We have an instrument: the Galician Strategic Plan 2015-2020, and we have two main challenges: an average annual sustained growth over 2.5 % of GDP and creating between 80 and 100,000 new jobs to reduce the unemployment rate by the end of this decade also over 10%. And we can say, with satisfaction, that in the first year of this strategic plan this goal was met, because growth in 2016 exceeded 3.1 % and created 20,000 jobs. And to continue to meet this goal in 2017, we will not bring words, but figures, as I will then detail. With this evolution, we will have more than 240 million euros this year to implement government priority policies: social spending, quality employment promotion and productive investment. Let's see what context these accounts are drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have reiterated, we have experienced a lot of difficulties and not all of them have been overcome yet, but we can objectively affirm that Galicia is at the best economic moment in the last eight years. Data from the third quarter of this year show that GDP has grown by 0,9 % at inter-trimester rate and by 3,3 % at inter-annual rate. These figures, good for themselves, are more relevant when they see that the Greek economy is acting better than Spanish; some data prove this better behavior. The Greek economy grows at a rate of 3.3% — a tenth over what the Spanish economy is doing — in the last quarter growth was 0.9% — two tenths better than the average — and Galicia is the second largest community in 2016 to grow production in the industry — by November 4.7% — more than double the set of autonomous communities. And Galicia is also the community that leads the billing of services with 9% increase to October, more than twice as much as the average. And Galicia's export rate hits its record year by year, because in 2016 it grew by 4.3% also to October, four times as much as average. In addition, the confidence of the yellow homes continues to improve and in the last quarter it has risen almost 6 points in relation to the previous year. It could continue to come up with data, but the most important thing is that we are meeting the challenge of building up a self-growth model in Galicia, a healthy growth model, because we maintain a continuous and progressive improvement of the growth rate, and in just three years we multiply by three our growth. This is why these new budgets seek to strengthen this growth with actions such as the priority of promoting quality employment, with an increase in resources by 15%; the consolidation of the largest tax reduction of Galician autonomy; the reinforcement of productive investment; the strengthening of public services; and social inclusion and the fight against inequality. Ladies and gentlemen, in the accounts this year we have a very balanced macroeconomic framework, we will continue to consolidate the progress of GDP, with an increase of 2.4 % — almost one point more than the average of the euro area’s economies — and with a significant reduction in the rate of unemployment of almost two points, which will be left at 15.6%. They may or may not agree with these estimates, but what they cannot question is that they are very prudent, because this government works with prudence and realism. We can reaffirm this for another year with the accumulated experience of the previous ones. You will remember that when we presented the 2015 accounts, opposition groups questioned whether Galicia would grow by 2%. Well, the closure of the year confirmed that GDP growth was much higher than estimated in budgets. Likewise, because of the debate of accounts for 2016, the opposition did not believe Galicia to grow by 2.5%. Well, the reality is that the final data will confirm that it has grown above 3.1%. So I insist that for this year 2017 we also make prudent forecasts so that the budget is based on true estimates, so we do not discard them, especially if there are no negative effects, such as the deficit or a certain level of autarchy at the international level, or certain levels at the price of oil. As far as employment is concerned, the objective is that in this exercise, another 20,000 Greeks and Greeks find a job and that the unemployment rate drops almost 2 points, and in this exercise we will also continue to lower the public deficit and indebtedness. Every year we have to use less additional funding to our current incomes, and therefore we have to resort to indebtedness to a lesser degree each year. We are committed to budgetary stability and fiscal consolidation. Since 2009, Galician deficit has been 6 points below average, with very positive consequences, as we avoid increasing our debt by 3,600 million euros. And in 2017 we will continue to reduce the public deficit, this time two tenths, from 0.7% to 0.5%. In this respect — I repeat — Galicia will carefully analyse the potential of spending that offers us the expansion of the deficit target to 0.6 % of GDP. In the last Galician legislation, it was the community that less increased its indebtedness; beyond leading a ranking, this already in itself very positive, per capita indebtedness is more than 1,900 euros less than the average, when before the crisis it was practically identical. After achieving stabilising debt in 2015 and 2016, as it is already fully flattened, in 2017 we will reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio to 18.8%, so Galicia will continue among the less indebted communities in Spain. In fact, Galicia is the only autonomous community that has reduced its debt in the last year, and has a debt-to-GDP ratio almost 6 points below average, when before the crisis it was above. And we maintain our financial autonomy intact so that we can fully exercise our self-government. And why do we have to go this way? Because this is the one that has led us to be consolidating economic recovery today, a recovery in which we are consolidating income improvement, a further increase in the resources of the autonomic financing system. This match, which accounts for more than 80% of the total income of the community, has grown to almost 800 million euros since 2014, without a doubt, of the improvement of the economic situation. In particular, next year we will have €79 million more, which means an increase of 1.2%, up to €6,815 million. Tax chapters will remain at levels similar to 2016, since the higher income, the fruit of economic recovery, will be offset by the tax reductions we continue to apply. In total, non-financial revenues will rise by almost 120 million euros, 1.4% more. And with these revenues this year we will consolidate the biggest tax discount approved in Galicia's history, so that 99% of the taxpayers in Galicia continue to pay no inheritance tax when they receive an inheritance from a direct relative; so that 98.5% of the taxpayers, those with low and medium incomes, continue to pay less for the IRPF, and to maintain the zero tax program in rural, which is enabling us to dynamize the average. In total, we closed last year with 70,871 Greeks exempt from paying succession taxes and taxes in rural areas. And for this year, 2017, we included in the Tax and Administrative Measures Act a new decision to deepen the selective tax reductions and to focus on a priority area for the Greek Government: the rural environment. We will eliminate taxes for young people, large families and disabled people who buy a home to live in rural areas. So living in rural is living in rural areas. This discount will be applied in all parishes qualified as areas with low or medium intensity, where it is most necessary to recover population. We will eliminate for these groups the taxes on costly heritage transmissions and legal acts documented in 87% of the territory. In addition, we will implement an extraordinary plan to fight tax fraud, with which we hope to enter some 20 million additional euros. Another important piar in the income chapter is that of the tax benefits, those incomes that the Union no longer enters to return directly to the families and to the Greek homes. In 2017 the Galician Union will apply tax benefits amounting to EUR 391 million, which means an increase of 7,4 % in respect of the 2016 financial year. A very important quantity from a quantitative point of view, but more relevant if we take into account the qualitative, because about 92% have a social character. With these revenues for next 2017 we will have a non-financial budget of 9,045 million euros, 241 more than last year. To these EUR 9.045 million we must add another 18 million in financial instruments from the ERDF funds that we will use to finance small and medium-sized enterprises and R & D expenditure. Therefore, the planned budget expenditure for Galician Union for 2017 is EUR 9.063 million. We will exhaust the total expenditure ceiling approved just two months ago in this Parliament. I would like to point out that we have already carried two consecutive expansion budgets and that we have 600 million euros more in relation to the 2015 accounts. And we have even greater spending capacity by reducing debt interest and devoting more resources to productive spending. All Greek public employees will recover the specific or equivalent supplement in their extra wages. And also in public employment, I can announce to you that in 2017 we aim to call a job offer of around 3,000 places to strengthen our public services, including health, education and social services. This forecast is prudent, once again, and could even increase if the State empowers autonomous communities to increase the rate of replenishment. And we will strengthen specific areas of social expenditure such as dependence, pharmaceutical spending, risk. Our strategy is that current spending will grow in line with budgeting, so that there will be a higher increase in investment chapters. In 2017 we will spend 1,472 million on capital costs, 54 more than the previous year, which means an increase of almost 4% above what non-financial expenditure does. In two years, investments increased nearly 230 million euros, and the goal is that Galicia remain the most resourceful community dedicated to the investor effort. This is possible for the significant downturn in chapter III, the interest payments of the debt, which are reduced by more than 13%. In two years we lowered a third of the interest payments, which means saving nearly EUR 101 million for the Board this year compared to 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget we will be able to recover the wealth levels of Galicia prior to the economic crisis. This is likely to happen in mid-year, if economic growth continues on the planned path. We will all agree that this is good news, although we are also aware from the Government that this recovery of wealth is not homogeneous, so — straight — we will redouble our efforts to fight social inequality and promote social and labour inclusion. Because with 600 million euros more than we will have, in relation to 2015, we are already at a level of budgetary resources comparable to the years 2008 or 2009. I'll try to explain myself. The non-financial expenditure we will count on in 2017 exceeds EUR 9.063 million in particular, as I was talking about earlier. In 2009 there was an budget of 10,581 million excluding transfers to local corporations, which then were included in the budget of the Union, but it was actually inflated, as proved by the negative settlement, that that year was 1,600 million euros, so the actual spending capacity was around 9,000 million euros. And with a budget already at levels comparable to 2009, this government prioritizes and gives greater weight to the most important: people. Because with similar levels of expenditure, this government devotes more resources to health care and more resources to education. This government is dedicated to health five more points in resources than the previous one, and it already concentrates on health policies almost 40% of the total expenditure. We devote two more points to education than in economic goodness, and we're close to 25 percent of the total resources. Ladies and gentlemen, only this year we increased resources for social spending by 229 million, an increase that adds to the nearly 200 additional resources we had in 2016. In two years, we'll have nearly 430 million more for health care, education and social services. We therefore continue to allocate 8 out of every 10 euros of the budget to social expenditure. And that's because social spending, along with the creation of quality employment and productive investment, are the main priorities of this government. That is why I insist that in this budget we increase by 15% the policies aimed at promoting the creation of quality employment and additional EUR 54 million for investment. Although they have already had the opportunity to meet and discuss with the officials in each area the sectoral budgets, I want to underline some priority areas. In health care, we will have another 100 million to strengthen public health and quality. We will allocate 20 million for the plans of the directors of the Coruña, Ourense, Hospital da Costa, Architect Marcide and Mexoeiro; another 3.9 million for the project Code 100; we reserve 5 million for the new faculty of medicine, and we also include resources for the extension of the Hospital de Montecelo. In education, the goal is to continue teaching in the best conditions. The provision for education infrastructures increases by 6 million. We will incorporate 200 more teachers for the 4th of the ESO and the new vocational training qualifications. And we will have EUR 4 million more to strengthen transport and school lunches and to acquire school materials; with a challenge: to improve reconciliation and equity. In the context of social policy, resources to care for dependence will also increase by 4.3% more than the average budget, and will rise to over 338 million. Risga increases by 5 million. And resources for victims of gender-based violence increase by 1.3 million euros. In the eido of the family, childhood and demography, we will devote 7.8 million to centers of 0-3 years and children's homes; other 4.4 for children's schools. We've increased the family benefit program to 161 million, 40% more than in 2015; and we've also expanded the Welcome Card to births in 2017. In terms of employment, with the goal of creating up to 20,000 jobs next year, we spent 12.6 million on information, guidance and job search. We've increased more than 12% of the resources for the training of unemployed, up to 80 million, and we'll have 5 million more for the training of busy people, with a total of 11.3 million. In the wake of the labour market, I want to highlight the bet on achieving a more inclusive job, so we will devote 14 million to the integration of people with disabilities and other collectives. In the entrepreneurship issue, Junta will allocate 9 million to the self-employed strategy and 2.6 for employment promotion. In the wake of the infrastructure, 9 out of 10 euros will be devoted to real investment for people who contribute to the territorial balance, since the internal provinces will receive a per capita investment of 44% higher than the Atlantic. Another priority is the start of the reorganization and modernization of public transport and the beginning of a firm bet on intermodality. In the wake of the housing, we strengthen investment by 8%, with 10 million euros more to facilitate access to a home, deepening existing measures and creating others like the Realuga program. As for social programs, we will continue to push the 12 measures taken by the Union to ensure that no Greek family is deprived of the right to housing because they cannot pay their mortgage or rent. In the wake of industry and innovation, we redouble our bet on Industry 4.0 with initiatives such as the second edition of the Factory 4.0 aid program, which will add up to four sectoral projects and at least two cross-cutting initiatives such as Virtual Factory and Industrial ICT, as well as a new line of help for big data and internet solutions projects of things. On the other hand, the Galician Innovation Agency, with 63.2 million — 3.7% more — prioritizes innovative talent, private investment attraction, innovative public procurement and the necessary measures to lay the foundations for a new innovation model. It also continues to strengthen its bet on strategic and emerging sectors such as automotive, naval, aeronautics, biotechnology and cultural industries. In tourism, after the end of 2016 as a record year in both travellers and overnight stays, we increased the resources by 5.4 % to consolidate this source of wealth and start preparing for Xacobeo 2021. So, we focus on improving Santiago's roads and the tourist resources of the municipalities. In the field of the environment, the objectives are the integral sanitation of rivers, the fight against climate change, the efficient management of waste, the management of the territory, the value of the landscape and the sustainable development of the natural heritage. I must also point out that with this budget, rural legislation begins. We have increased 21% of infrastructure resources related to the development and adaptation of agriculture and forestry, up to 27 million. We have increased nearly 7 million shares for processing, trade and development of agricultural products, which will have EUR 21 million. In the fishing field, Mar is the advisor's largest budget increase: 10%. Two thirds of the resources are for economic regulation of the productive sectors and for business development. The biggest increases are to maintain competitiveness and improve the quality of fisheries and aquaculture production, with more than 60 million. In addition, the sustainable development funds in the fisheries areas will grow by 60%, to smelt 15 million. We will also continue to bet on our culture, as soon as we confirm that Galicia is leading cultural spending in Spain; a very remarkable data. Thus, we finance conservation and restoration activities in goods such as Ourense and Mondoñedo cathedrals, monasteries of Sobrerado dos Monxes and Oseira, the wall of Lugo and the castles of Viladonga, San Cibrao de Las and La Ciadella. We also increased 23% of resources for cataloguing, promoting heritage and delimiting Santiago's roads. Similarly, we make the citizenry available a greater cultural offer, as Agadic will have a greater budget for the internal distribution, through the Galician Network of theatres and audiences, and with greater support for the external distribution, as well as with more help for talent to support new values. We have over 6.8 million euros for the promotion of the language of Galicia, which will enable us to maintain the activities of dynamisation, in which we will continue to prioritize attention to young people. With this same objective, we will draw up the Plan to dynamize the Welsh language in youth, which will involve the development of another sector of the Linguistic Standardization Plan. Even so, progress will continue to be made in promoting Portuguese as a second foreign language, and knowledge of Greek studies abroad will be consolidated. For justice we count on the highest budget in the history of autonomy in this matter, with an increase of 6.3 million. It includes the completion of the rehabilitation of the Tobacco Factory in the Coruña, the execution of the work of the new judicial building in Pontevedra, the bidding and adjudication of the contracts of the City of Justice of Vigo, as well as the budget for the construction of a new judicial building in Tui. As for equality, the scope of gender-based violence is reinforced at all levels, and the game against this scourge amounts to EUR 5.2 million, of which 3.4 are targeted at periodic aid to victims; 61% more. In addition, the period of application for these aid will remain open all year long, including women victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation. Support for specialized psychological care for victims of gender-based violence is also increased by 23.1%. And to continue to promote effective equality between women and men, we will present the VII Equality Plan, as a roadmap for the coming years, and we will continue to implement the I-Galish Plan of Education on Equal Education in the English language classes, and we have just approved the Plan of Women and Science. As for the university, its budgets have for the first time surpassed the 400 million euro barrier in direct transfers since 2009, to comply with the 2016-2020 funding plan, which increases by almost 10 million euros and includes 3 million euros for student grants. More than 5 million is also reserved for repair, expansion and improvement of university infrastructure. With regard to support for local authorities, we have increased the Local Cooperation Fund by EUR 3.6 million, to turn to 120, with 2 of them for the promotion of mergers and shielding items such as the Environmental Compensation Fund and the financing of the GHG agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the important challenge we have with the debate on self-financing, since, as I have already said, the approach to the current financing system is almost 80% of the resources we have in the budget. We will have a chance to debate more often on this matter, but I would only like to briefly reiterate the position of the German Government. The Greek Government will be consistent and will defend what we always stand for: Galicia's interests, and will do so in a responsible but firm manner, so that the Greeks and the Greeks will have the funding we need. We have priorities we won't give up. We are committed to focusing on the financing needs of citizens, not on identity principles. So we're talking about people and not territories. And we bet on objecting to costs to know what it means to provide services in each territory and that they have the same quality, regardless of place of residence. So we argue that it has to be a stable, sustainable and progressive model, in which people's dispersion and aging are better placed, with unquestionable objective calculations. Furthermore, and aware that the resources we have to devote to health care now exceed 40 per cent, Galicia will ask the Conference of Presidents tomorrow to review the model of self-financing for health. We will continue to work on this priority issue, I hope that with the approaches of all parliamentary groups, so that we can have a unique and country position in a matter where Galicia plays a great deal. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to finish. The greatest economic growth, the improvement of the labour market — with the creation of more jobs —, the best collection — of the greatest economic dynamism — and the good data that Galicia presents in the main economic indicators do nothing but encourage this government to deepen its policies and priorities, to help more Greeks and Greeks every day to benefit from economic recovery. I repeat that we have done a lot of work, but it's not enough, much remains to be done. And, in order to continue this effort, we have presented this budget, some accounts that will allow us to maintain economic growth around 2.5 per cent, help other 20,000 Greeks and Greeks find employment, consolidate the biggest fiscal downturn in history — so that, for example, 99 per cent of the Greeks do not pay for inheritance taxes — protect people who have more difficulties — fighting inequality and promoting equal opportunities — and strengthen investment to help keep the Greek economy going. For all this, to consolidate a model of own growth for Galicia, a model where we have a healthy growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u4	Thank you, Counselor. Debates and votes on the amendments to the whole proposal for a global refund of budgets or of any section or expenditure centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u5	We now move on to the debate — which we will do in a cumulative way — of amendments to the total demand for the global return of budgets or of any section or expenditure management centre. That's why we started by defending the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón, for a time of thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, to me, while I was listening to you, a few verses of Mario Benedetti came to my head: "It all depends on the pain you're looking at." And indeed, it seems that your Government, despite rhetoric, is in practice unable to see or share the pain that is causing austerity policies, because really inequality, unemployment, problems in access to public services are not a separate consequence of the political decisions you have made over the years, and indeed this budget, like the decisions in the cuts and economic policy that you and the People's Party defend, are the reason that today we continue to maintain such strong rates of inequality and poverty in our country. So, Counsellor, it would be very good if you started to realize the serious mistake this country is taking with this economic policy. I also thought that, in a way, the Greek Government — by the way, it is surprising that Mr Feijóo is not here today, in the most important debate of budgets, which I think is a lack of respect for this Parliament and the citizens we represent in — is really the Government of the Incredibles, because you never err, never fail, always have reason, yours is the only truth. "We're always" -- as they say? -- "in the right direction." Now they make up this new concept of healthy growth. However, I believe that, unfortunately, these budgets, in practice, what they are is a slap in the face of all those people who are still installed in the crisis. I'm also finding that we are before a government that has no kind of country ambition and that it really lacks a strategy that Galicia places on the train of modernity, innovation, decent wages, equality, respect for the environment or support for our language and culture. If we, instead of being here in this Parliament today, or if you yourself, instead of being here in this Parliament, had stood before one of the thousands of people who have been unemployed for years and years without finding any solution, or if you had been in front of one of those families who have been here for years without any incomes — and that are a lot in our country — I wonder if you could actually read that talk with that coldness and tell them that these budgets are really going to change your life. Would you be able? I don't think so, Counsellor, because you know that the solution to the problems that a large social majority has is not in this budget, but the economic and social dynamics is going to follow in very similar parameters. Because it's funny you're talking about healthy growth. Is it healthy growth that there is greater poverty, greater inequality and greater precariousness in our country? Because that's Galicia that leaves these budgets. Do you think there's a healthy growth when, as they beg us to get out of the crisis, if poverty is rising in our country? Do you really think there's a healthy growth when you're telling us that there are more than 700,000 people at risk of social exclusion in our country, who have to live with less than 600 euros a month? Do you really think there's a healthy growth when the number of homes that say they're in trouble at the end of the month, that in our country there are six out of every ten homes, Counsellor? I don't know if that seems to be in the right direction. And really what's going on is that you're consolidating a model of growth, a growing inequality, and a precariousness that is absolutely irreversible as a model of the future. But the most serious thing is that you come now with the same promises as last year, and what really changes so that now people who are suffering this crisis think that it will change something with the same recipes that have already failed in the past? Why are the recipes that have failed before going to hit right now? It would be all right, Counselor, if you had answered this question. The situation we are living in right now, and the budgetary content itself, which leaves us the chronicle of three major failures. First of all, the failure of austerity and recentralization, which is not serving us to get out of the crisis; quite the contrary; we see a majority of citizens to whom to tighten their belt only served to make them live worse all these years, to increase inequalities. Today we have data on how the rich are getting richer and the poor are poorer, and we see how that cocktail of austerity, of recentralization, only caused the crisis in the case of Greek to be longer and deeper, so it has affected us for more time and with greater social consequences. The second major failure of his Government — and that is also seen in these budgets — is that failure of what they are now not talking about, that here we were able to do more with less; it was a sort of consolidation of that model of the multiplication of bread and fish, that this government of gods was capable of producing. The truth is that we saw Mr Feijóo's obsession — absent from this debate — as the student applied to Mr Montoro in the cuts all that caused us was that the Greeks and the Greeks had more cuts and for longer, and this is being noted, Counsellor, in a very clear and very worrying way in the deterioration of public services. But — you mentioned it too — these budgets are the failure of a financing model that Mr. Núñez Feijóo has signed, which is an unfair model for our country, unfair for Galicia, which deepens the cut in social rights and that you have signed knowing that it was a model that led to financial insufficiency. And, in fact, these budgets — and then we will go into more detail — are the finding of that failure. At least we think that, before we start that debate, the minimum would be to recognize the error they made in signing an unfair financing model, which underfinances our competences, and at least not to repeat that same mistake and return that model, to have a country ambition in defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And I believe, with all honesty, Mr Counsellor, that it is not to be received that on the eve of this first meeting tomorrow in Madrid in this Parliament we do not yet know what the concrete proposal is going to defend the Government of Greece. The only thing we have is vagueness, generality, and we really think we need to go and defend an ambitious proposal of the country, and of course Mr. Núñez Feijóo doesn't go with that ridiculous goal that he seems to be the only thing he's worried about is that Catalonia is moving forward. I still think — I am very convinced — that Mr. Núñez Feijóo's follow-up to this antithetical strategy of the People's Party is as useless as ineffective to defend the interests of our country. In fact, what makes me curious is that you didn't realize that for all these years the only benefit from this financing model was Madrid, because whoever imposed on us a financing model that harms the Greeks and the Greeks was really Madrid. And we, of course, invited Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the Greek Government not to confuse themselves with enemies or allies, and, above all, to abandon that strategy of submission to the interests of the People's Party, to the interests of Mr. Rajoy, because that leads Galicia to political irrelevance and to tomorrow we are invited by stone at a meeting, because Mr. Rajoy already knows that Mr. Feijóo is going to say amenably to any proposal coming out of that government. In any case, I would like to go into the detail of some other matter that has to do with the enunciation of these three major failures of what we are talking about in relation to their economic and financial policy. In view of the theory that these are an expansive budget, we are really seeing that these budgets are budgets children of austerity. The intended expansive character is really smoke, Mr Counsellor, because these budgets are what they do to consolidate cuts in public services and social benefits and assume that Galicia will continue to be installed in work precariousness, in immigration — which you minimize — and also in the increase in the number of people who are unemployed. You really have an increase this year in budgets that is less than it happened last year. So there's no growth, but expansion is limited. The rush to approve this budget has prevented us from having budgets here today where all the cost possibilities of the Autonomous Community were, and we are therefore faced with budgets that do not invest everything they could to improve the political situation, the economic situation and the social situation. But when we see where these increases are going, those resources that have the greatest share of the Galician Union in 2017, what we see is how the real priority is neither improving health care, improving education, or paying more attention to dependency or job creation -- quite the contrary, Counsellor. The priority of Mr. Feijóo's government is to continue to fatten the bank's business through debt, because that's really the only expansional game in these figures that we're debating; it's a game that goes up 14%, i.e., that debt payments go up five times as much as the average budget, and at the moment, it's almost absorbed two out of every 10 euros in Galicia's board. We would also like to talk about the growth forecast of GDP. We believe that these forecasts are the best proof of the failure of their economic strategy — if they have it — and the fallacy that this year will bring about the recovery of all people, which is what they were talking about at some point in these budgets. You're looking at an increase in gross domestic product of 2.4 % for 2017, i.e. a smaller increase than you've expected for this year and also less than what's expected for the state as a whole, because really the state is forecast to grow a tenth more. With these figures, do you think you have the credibility to tell us that Galicia is better, that we grow more than the average? Well, the truth is, Mr. Counselor, unfortunately, it is not. And it's really also worrying to see how in the estimate he makes about the contribution to growth really what depends on the Council of Galicia and the Government of the State, the final consumption of public administrations, is the variable that presents a lower forecast of growth, specifically 2%. So we also see that the Galician Union is not setting itself up as a locomotive that drives economic growth, but that it is other sectors that are pulling out of demand and economy. A very important issue for us is to talk about job forecasts, because, indeed, the lack of employment and deterioration, this increasingly precarious precariousness in the world of work, is one of the serious problems and the serious consequences left by the economic model of the People's Party. These budgets estimate that the rate for 2017 is going to be a lower rate than we have this year. We say that we wish we could meet that goal. But we also want to bring you some further reflection, because we believe that we need not only to talk about figures and data, but also whether there really exists a net job creation. And you, Counselor, do you really think you're going to create a net job in our country? Because look, I think it's useless or almost nothing that the unemployment rate really goes down because it lowers the active population rate, because it knows we're not creating jobs there, but we're talking about statistics that don't really tell us what's really going on. You, in your own economic-financial report accompanying the budgets, recognize that one of the causes of the drop in unemployment rate is going to be the decline in the active population. I mean, one of the elements that recognizes Feijóo himself is why he's going to lower unemployment isn't because people who are now looking for employment are going to find him, but because he's going to lower the active population, I don't know if because you expect him to keep increasing the number of people who emigrate, and how they emigrate and are not, because our country's problems are already disappearing. Of course, I think that when a government, when a president puts black on white that in his budget project is going to lower the unemployment rate because it's going to lower the active population and that seems to be a positive data, it's like we're on the edge of the abyss and the Greek Government is taking a step forward. Since then, we understand that this is an important fact, because the fact that the active population descends at a time when they talk about GDP growth, which is pointing to us, is the fragility of this growth and the depth of the crisis and its consequences. In addition, you gave us some figures in which you said that this year 2016, with a higher growth rate -- I should have heard it wrong, didn't you? -- if 20,000 jobs had been created. And yet, by increasing the economy less, you tell us that you're going to create four or five times more jobs than this year. You will understand, Mr Counsellor, that with these figures and with this data your credibility is at the height of this carpet that this Parliament now covers, as it does every day. But we also want to talk about the quality of employment, and there can be no quality of employment unless the labour reforms that have been imposed in recent years are withdrawn. If those reforms were imposed because there was a crisis, now — welcoming us to its position — when the crisis was over, there is no sense for them to continue to be cut into labour rights, or that this model of precariousness, which, of course, affects women in our country much more. And this situation also has to do with another measure where you see the double measuring rod that has this government. The wages, Counselor, on average, in the latest data we have available in our country, have grown very little. Most of the workers and the workers saw how the salary rise in Galicia is a very, very small rise, and well below the state average. I do not understand, Mr. Counsellor, as in this context of serious crisis, in addition to a very important part of the workers and workers in this country, where you see how the wages have suffered a very important downturn that does not recover, the Greek Government takes the license to rise anything more and nothing less than between 7.5 % and 7% of the resources, the money, its wages that they will receive for the coming year. We, Counsellor, if most of the workers in this country have seen their wages increase by 7% this year, I tell you that we have not commented at all, but you will understand that it is disproportionate and disproportionate — you have asked for sacrifices from all people and that they continue to suffer the consequences of this crisis — that we have to applaud that the salary is raised by 7.5 % — absent — and 7 % of the entire board of directors. We, Counsellor, do not seem to receive that decision which is also enshrined in these budgets, especially because we see how social policy cuts continue to exist which are very important. I told him we never believed you were able to reproduce that miracle of multiplying bread and fish, of doing more with less. And we see as well as all these years, despite what they say in the propaganda of the Galician Union, the truth is that Galician has cut into social politics above the state average. It was Galician Union, by decision of the People's Party, the fourth autonomous community that he cut off most. While on the average of the State social policy cuts represented 14,53 %, in Galicia this decline was 16.21 % since the beginning of the crisis. Today, in these budgets, if we take into account, if we make a comparison since 2009, what we see is how there are 1,152 million less euros in social policy. Look at that. In the Education Council, the last budgets decreased by 9.13 % in relation to 2009. We have less money for the Greek universities, which have fewer resources than in 2009; as a result of their education policy, we have 4,000 pupils and students who can't take the career cycle they want; more than 3,000 families who don't have a place in children's schools; and at the Greek universities there are 5,000 students enrolled less. The Health Council also continues its cuts, and the result of these decisions has clearly deteriorated the health system, and we see that there are 1,800 professionals less. And really the collapses that are occurring in the health system don't have to do with the flu being something that cannot be anticipated; no; the collapses that are occurring in the health system and in the emergencies are directly responsible for cuts and lack of resources to care for health. Likewise, Counselor, that in the dependency system there are still many people who have the right to benefit and who have not yet received it. In 2015, there were, specifically, 23,672 people who had the right to the attention of the unit and who were still waiting, because there were no resources, because you cut into this kind of stuff. But also, Counsellor, we wanted to talk about the failure of the financing model signed by the Government of the People's Party. We see that it is an absolute inconsistency that they have to maintain a financing model that is clearly detrimental to Galicia's interests and that it does not allow us, really, to shield the public services and the resources needed to put Galicia to create quality jobs. We see how the revenue — official data contained in the budgets — provided by the financing system only increases by 1.2%, which is very small if we consider what the increase in expenditure is planned for this year. And this shows us the exhaustion of this model and how it clearly makes Galicia increasingly receiving less resources than it should. We also see, therefore, that this situation and also its lack of activity in relation to the financial capacity that our country has caused us, is that you continue to add to your debt as the only way to have enough resources to meet the cost needs. Specifically, the debt issue is going to exceed EUR 2 billion, and this is what I think also causes the government to have as a result not only the financing model, but also the financial policy that you are leading in this area. We would like you to collect proposals that we have, such as providing greater progress for the IRPF, lowering the minimum exemption, introducing greater progress also in the taxation of assets, as well as taking advantage of the possibilities, the slots that leave this system to make a fairer taxation, through a tax on large commercial areas, or also that, of course, we believe that it would introduce more progressive taxation and give us greater possibilities from the point of view of the redistribution of wealth. Having said this, there are other aspects we would like to mention, because we believe they have a great social impact. We, Counselor, are very worried and worried because Galicia is in the tail wagon of the R+D+i. We see that the German Government has no ambition to move forward towards an innovative and future production model. There is an increase that is very small, 4.7 million euros, which is not useful for us to recover the lost time, because the cutting policies that applied its Government have placed the one that Galicia is currently in the innovation queue of the state and the European Union as well. We believe it would be important for the R & D+i funds to be doubled also with a reorientation of what the fate and strategy of the German Government should be. Other territories, as in the case of Euskadi, for example, have made a clear bet and would be in that sense, we regret that they lose more opportunities to our country. You still fear in that mantra that this is going to be the rural legislation, but in budgets we don't see that this is going to be any rural legislation, because we really just see how they increase to EUR 5.5 million — less than 1.7% — the funds destined for this game. They're still here with the miracle of bread and fish. Actually, this doesn't have any kind of credibility. You've also talked about the fishing sector, and to us what we're concerned about is that precisely the Galician Union doesn't have the intelligence to bet on our fishing, our aquaculture and our shellfish, and that really the only strategic bet they have is to feed industrial aquaculture, although they know that this model has been massively rejected, and we see how, at this beginning of legislation, they want to impose the law they couldn't have and the policy they couldn't have in the past legislation. Nor, Counsellor, do we agree that these are budgets that allow us to take better care of our environment and place ourselves in a position where we refer to the fight against climate change. On the contrary, we see that we do not have enough resources to clean up our rivers, which have serious problems resulting from pollution caused by spills, and there is no comprehensive regeneration policy for our rivers. We see how you consolidate a forest model at the service of Ence, not a forest model at the service of our country, and how you want to de-regulate the biomass sector to give Ence a white letter to fill with energy crops in the country. We see here how you, through this law, of the Law of Accompaniment, want to do -- I don't know -- to fulfill an old dream, an old age that I had Ence: to have half our country producing eucalyptus for Ence and the other half wood to burn. That is not a model for the future, it is a model that must be reviewed, because otherwise we will continue to see as serious problems — such as forest fires — going to keep tearing our country down. And you, if you really want to be in the vanguard of the fight against climate change, what you should start to think is that you can't continue to feed the main climate change plant that our country has, which is Sogama. To insist on that waste burning model is to lose opportunities, job opportunities, opportunities to be respectful of environmental policies as well. And we defend, Mr. Counsellor, that this model should be revised, and we have in our amendments proposals to that effect. And finally, there's another aspect that we'd like to name, because it's really, almost, I'd say, I can tell you here that the Galician Union lends great support to the Greek language and culture. Galician Union, official ministry data, has cut more than 50% of the resources for language and culture. And you know that behind that is not the crisis, it's a political-ideological position of the People's Party. If they really want to change that situation, they must devote something more to it than economic abuse, which is what they give to language and culture in these budgets. Finally, Counsellor, our group does not share the fundamental philosophy of these budgets, we regret that you continue with a policy that only causes social inequality in our country to grow, and also that they continue with a lack of ambition for plan, a real plan for the future for Galicia that had placed us on the path of modernity, of respect for the environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u7	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u8	...in quality employment and, of course, in a future line. We have proposals, however, that we would like if we really wanted to move forward in future plans if we could agree, that we could really, despite the fundamental differences, on important issues, be able to have agreements, how to double the R & D+i funds; allocate at least 1% of the budgets to the fight against gender violence, because it will agree with me that 5 million is a really small game if we want to prioritize the development of the laws adopted; that we approve a plan returns so that people who have left have opportunities to return, that we support people who have less income for social integration, or that we bet on a sustainable mobility and tell the Galicians that we too have the right to have a proximity train in our country. Finally, Counsellor, these are the budgets of despair, and we believe that the most useful thing they could do would be to step back and rethink that one cannot continue with the old policies that were the ones that brought us to the well where today is a great social majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr Fernández Leiceaga has the floor to defend the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u10	Mr. President. Mr Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, from our group we also propose the return of budgets from Galicia to 2017 for three basic reasons, which I shall then try to explain. First, because they give continuity to a failed economic policy in its results; second, because they represent a re-assigned and conservative conformist policy, which does not respond to demands for employment, attention to the needs of people or equality; and thirdly, because - although we will see it in more detail this afternoon - we understand that another economic policy is possible for Galicia, with stronger growth, with more social integration and with strengthened public services. Our first argument is that Alberto Núñez Feijóo's economic policy has made the economic crisis more fundamental than it already was and more destructive of employment than necessary. The cost of the crisis has been unbearable and excessive, we have lost too much wealth and too much employment in these years. The councillor recognized him. In terms of wealth creation, our autonomous community took a decade, from 2008 to the end of 2017, to return to its starting point. In eight years the governments of Alberto Núñez Feijóo took us back to our starting position. This is the big balance of these two legislatures. Eight years lost for the well-being, progress or convergence with Europe. But the counsellor didn't do the same thing to us in terms of employment, and it's convenient to do so. Because in terms of employment that we attended during this time, it was a catastrophe without palliatives. At the rate of job creation that is foreseen in these budgets, we would take an additional decade to regain the level of employment that we started in 2008. By the end of 2015 -- the data published in annual terms -- we are 85% of the full-time jobs we had in 2008, in hours worked in 83%, and we would need an additional decade, we would need 20 full-year governments of Alberto Núñez Feijóo to return to the starting situation. This is the balance we've found today. We have stopped producing over this year in accumulated terms, about 1/3 of GDP of the year 2008. It was a deep and persistent recession, as we all know, which has also taken place in other autonomous communities and in the countries of southern Europe, but here it has been a little deeper and is being a little longer than elsewhere. And we have, above all, permanently altered the growth path of our economy. When we return to the same place in terms of job creation or wealth, we'll see that this place no longer exists and we'll have to invent another less interesting path of growth. But above all, we expelled the young people from the labour market. Practically all the job destruction that remains today, after the recovery undertaken from the year 2013, takes place below thirty-five years. There is a generation that is unable to start a working or professional life and, therefore, to have an autonomous and satisfying life; a generation that is either aimed at or depending on their families or whether to leave. And this has a permanent effect, in addition, on the growth of the autonomous community. New entry into the labour market is an additional source of increasing productivity, of introducing dynamism, of flexibility, of introducing new ways of doing things. That youth doesn't have opportunities for jobs that affect all of us today and in the future, because it's a source of blockade, changes and transformations that Galicia needs. That's why it's not strange that recent studies, as published a few weeks ago by the BBVA Foundation on the regional economy in Spain, indicate that Galicia has less resilience, which is a term derived from psychology, brought from material sciences, which indicates to us the ability to adapt to situations of stress and adverse situations, the ability to get out strengthened from coping with these situations. For these studies indicate that the Galician economy has a level of resilience below average, a low level of resilience. And it's true, not everything is achievable to the Government of the last four years, not everything is achievable to Alberto Núñez Feijóo, but you've been ruling thirty-five years, that we're going to celebrate the next Saturday, of autonomy. Your party has been ruling those thirty years, so they have a very important direct or indirect responsibility. Part of it is due to our productive structure, we have less weight of services in the market than other areas, we have a less diversified economic structure, we have fewer companies that innovate, it's true, but after thirty-five years of autonomy and thirty years of governing some responsibility must also have in that. But above all, it is the action of governments in these eight years that makes the difference to their demand management policy and to their policy of supply factors that in the medium and long term affect our competitiveness. Galicia's bad behavior in these years was not inevitable. You said in your speech that we live in a kind of happy Arcadia, in which not all is done, but most of the things are solved. It's the healthy growth of what we used to talk about. The reality is that we behave worse than the Spanish economy as a whole. Many autonomous communities have grown up since the beginning of the crisis much more than we do, and we are not comparing ourselves with China, India or Ireland, and we are comparing ourselves with the rest of the Spanish autonomous communities. In terms of job creation we are the second most job-ridden community in these years of crisis, Counsellor. It's not a problem of different rhythms of escape from the crisis, it's not just a question of productive structure. The economic policy you practiced has harmful effects on growth and employment. Fascination for austerity plays negatively in relation to growth. His whole project was the adjustment. And compliance with the deficit is fine, we're not against this, we're in favour of fiscal sustainability, we're in favour of financial stability; making compliance with the deficit the only goal is the central error, that's the serious one. In a context of hard adjustment to public spending, inhibit short-term growth, avoid getting ready for the future, it's the result of its policy. And this is more important than ever when we realize that the context has changed. In the crisis regional inequalities tend to increase in Spain and other realities. If we look at what has happened since 2008, we see that the earlier autonomous communities have better results: Madrid in the first place, but also the Basque Country, Navarre, Catalonia or Balearics, such as studies by economists such as Quadrado and Maroto, recently published. Regional differences in the pace of growth are exacerbated by territorial inequalities, and that has to do with market reasons, no doubt, with reasons for the functioning of the economic system, but it has to do with the rebalancing role of the central government in these years. The austerity applied on compensating elements, which were making growth much more egalitarian in the territory, is weakening. That's why it's more important than ever that in this context, which is going to test us, too, in the coming years, we are able to succeed, we have an economic policy that allows us to grow more, create better jobs and more jobs than our competitors. When the wind is against it, the Government's action is more important than ever. I heard a second argument, which I want to comment very quickly. The second argument is that we are going out late but determined, because 2016 was a good year. And it's true, the growth in 2016 was high in Spain, no doubt facilitated by the adjustment to low oil prices, the lowest cost of money and the relaxation of fiscal consolidation that occurred in Spain this year, but that even in Galicia was better than in Spain. And I recognize it, we've had a slightly higher growth than Spanish, and that's very good, breaking the inertia of the last few years. But it's true, too, and you will agree with me, that that was a year that -- just because it was an election year -- was an even greater fiscal relaxation in Galicia. Among other things, facilitated by the effect of the liquidation of the financing system, which has made our spending capacity substantially increased in 2016, in fact public spending has increased twice as much in Galicia as in Spain this year. That, among other things, has made it easier for us to have had an abnormal year in our trajectory during the crisis. An abnormal year in terms of growth, not so much in terms of job creation, because the difference is that the economic agents who have to make decisions are not convinced of the continuity of that expansive economic policy, they are not convinced that these good results will be reflected in future years, and are therefore remitted to recruit more people, to expand their staff, to expand their staff frameworks. So in terms of employment, we don't perceive that result better compared with Spain; in fact, in 2017 we attend it is a complete return to normality. In 2017 the rate of growth of gross domestic product in its macroeconomic framework is lower than expected for Spain, according to the forecasts that the Government is managing. And, of course, in employment the results are going to be much worse, the divergence is very marked. We return to normal again, to normal behavior that is more obnoxious, less intense than the Greek economy, especially in job creation. And this prognosis is not only confirmed, but is aggravated, by some external observers, for example the Regional Observatory of the Bank of Bilbao-Biscaia-Argentaria Foundation, of the end of November, indicates that the growth in Galicia of GDP will be 2.1% and not 2.4%. For Spain of 2.5%. And in employment, the forecast is that employment will expand by 1%, i.e. about 10,000 jobs in Galicia. But in Spain it will grow to 2.5%. And yet the budget that we are faced with persists in the policies that lead us to this situation. The analysis of the macroeconomic framework concerns us, too, in another aspect, which is the composition of the expected growth. There is a lower expected growth in private spending in Galicia than in Spain, despite the tax cuts, which indicates that there is a certain failure in the transfer of these reductions to the behaviour of economic agents, and in part this is rightly motivated by the — we might call — inelasticity of employment growth to GDP change in Galicia. If you don't create stable jobs in sufficient amount, how will your private spending take off? And the macroeconomic framework thus leads to the growth of 2017 to private investment, just to the most unpredictable, volatile variable, more linked to erratic business expectations, to spirit animals, which said Keynes; uncertainty and volatility that will be driven by the slowdown in domestic demand, the rise in the price of oil, the types of rising interest and geopolitical phenomena of such importance as Brexit, Trump's election or the expected elections in Europe in the coming months. Therefore, Counsellor, it is possible, since it is the investment the engine of growth for Galicia next year, that we finally - it is possible - to increase and create jobs less than forecast. And for this, of course, there are alternative policies. We urge an income pact with social agents, we promote a social agreement to promote stable employment and to ensure that wage developments follow that of productivity and to strengthen — let us say — the expenditure of families. These would be necessary to put in place an alternative strategy, which would have made future growth more driven by internal demand and therefore had more capacity to be real. A second argument to the return of the budget, from our point of view, has to do with an incorrect fiscal strategy. There are two central elements in the fiscal strategy that have followed these years. The first is that they have complicated the finances of the Galician Union in the financial sphere, with no significant results in the real economy, we have accumulated a lot of debt. If we include 2017, the formalized debt increased by 6,500 million euros. More than 2 out of 3 euros of debt is Mr. Núñez Feijóo's direct responsibility. If we include the results of public-private collaboration instruments, about €2,800 million is to be returned. By adding one and the other we are close to GDP figures. We can say that Alberto Núñez Feijóo increased the debt — sorry, the budget figures of the autonomous community — about the budget of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. There are two criteria to judge this, and both must be met. The first is sustainability. This debt, can you pay? I say yes. I don't care about the volume of debt, I don't worry, I think it can be paid, I think the Galician Union has made — in this sense — a sensible exercise, we can perfectly return the debt in the future. So much so that we are in favour of this year, against what you propose, of using all the deficit allowed by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and, therefore, of increasing the deficit in the autonomous community by 0.5% to 0.6% to increase our spending by additional 60 million, and thus increasing the debt in those 60 million. So that's not the problem. It is true that it has grown less than the average of the autonomous communities, that if we measure this in terms not of GDP — which is an incorrect measure — but of stable financial income from the autonomous community, we have a lot of capacity to return the debt we have accumulated. We don't care about this. However, two observations, smaller but interesting, will weigh on future budgets: we're going to have to pay the interest and return part of this debt, as a burden on public-private concessions. The Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital was set up, but we have to introduce tens of millions of euros every year to deal with this. Therefore, it conditions future budgets, and also — as you well know — we are above the level authorized in the Law of 2012, and therefore we need to make an additional effort to adjust these magnitudes in order to achieve this, unless GDP expands excessively. We can pay, but it's not free. But where does the Galician Union not meet? It doesn't work in terms of efficiency, and that's what we're concerned about. We must also meet in terms of efficiency. Debt is correct if it is allowed to generate resources due to improved economic situation, which allows payment in the future. And that second criterion is not met. We see a very significant decline in gross capital formation in these years which is not financed by capital transfers. Since the 2000 million in 2008, less than 700 million in 2015. You then have a subsequent rise in 2016 and 2017. It is only the relative stability of European funds, basically, because the International Compensation Fund virtually disappears as an interesting element, which enables the investment levels of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to be maintained at an important level. Funding with financial liabilities, i.e. due to the gross formation of autonomous capital, has been on average in the last seven years of 80%. In short, there's a very high increase in indebtedness, at the same time there's a strong decline in investment levels that the Galician Union has. The more he owes himself to the Council of Galicia, the less he prepares for the future. The criticised government of Mr. Touriño invested around 2,000 million euros and financed everything with savings in 2008. But it was a disaster, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo said at that time. Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government invests less than EUR 1 billion, leaving out European funds, and finances almost everything with debt. How would you qualify for this behaviour if you used the same criterion as to speak of the behaviour of the Government of Mr. Touriño? But above all, we are concerned about the relationship between debt and growth. The growth in GDP is lower than the Spanish average, we have not yet reached the 2008 level; the evolution of employment, the most negative; the rate of employment, the fall in free; the expenditure in R & D, down on GDP, which I already say is lower than in 2008; and we are at 0.89% of the expenditure in R & D on GDP, when we were in 2008 at 1.3%. A drop of nearly 6,000 companies between 2008 and 2016, a drop in apparent labour productivity — especially manufacturing — in relation to Spain. Is there any positive indicators? Yes, the export coverage rate, thanks mainly to what happens in automobiles and clothing; these are the best indicators, but the overall results are not happy compared to the rest of the Spanish economy. So we're going to have a lot of trouble paying the accumulated debt with the dividends of the investments made with that debt, and so that's the problem, it's not the volume, it's the use of resources that concerns us. What would a professional manager do in these circumstances? Well, changing politics, and if he's not able to change politics, because he'd have to leave; but it's just the opposite of what happens in the 2017 budgets, he's going through the mistake without taking the results into account. And we are concerned with two additional facts: the first is that, as I said before, the capacity for self-debtedness of the autonomous community is under the authority, and we lost 60 million euros. In a situation where we have a very important unemployment rate, where, let's say, the rate of use of the ability to install companies is below reasonable limits, strengthening public investment, strengthening public policies with these 60 million does not compromise the sustainability of public finances, but it means an additional injection for growth. And we are also concerned that what budget forecast is a reduction in current savings, with implications for the volume of investments. Gross capital formation is in terms of GDP, does not increase in terms of GDP and reduces its weight in consolidated budgeting. We believe that extreme rigour in meeting deficits is inappropriate and causes negative effects on growth and employment. The second element that concerns us about your tax strategy has to do with tax policy. For us, it's a regressive tax policy that inhibits growth and exacerbates social inequalities. There are selective reductions, with specific tax benefits, which focus on direct taxation of a heritage in its various forms, and a renunciation of the use of the ability to change — let us say — the progressiveness of the tax system. The aggregate tax benefits — you said — are almost EUR 400 million. It's true, more resources for families, for businesses, but, above all, for families. But it also means less resources to strengthen public services, to strengthen the policy of combating poverty, to strengthen the creation of public-driven employment, less resources for other things. And, therefore, we must compare both things. These tax reductions also have a social cost. They would be acceptable if they improved the pattern of distribution of income, to do so, let's say, fairer, more equitable, to strengthen equality in society. But they're just going the opposite way. It would be reasonable if economic growth were to be boosted again, if it were to be used to promote economic behaviour that favours growth and, therefore, would allow those tax benefits to be paid in the future. But none of this happens. In terms of equity, the tax reform pattern has an added regression impact; especially when we compare what is happening in other autonomous communities. However, there is a coincidence: that Galicia in recent years, although the Gini index — which is a conventional indicator of inequality — is not very high in terms compared to other autonomous communities, is worsening its results in recent years, in which there are 40,000 households without any income, in which there is a reduction in the weight of wages in GDP over the last few years of approximately three percentage points; in which, in general, the effects of changes in the market are negative on inequality and therefore it is more necessary than ever to introduce correction measures of this, first, by giving individuals opportunities and, second, by correcting the most negative effects of these market policies. None of this happens. In relation to the economic effects of this strategy, there are two, in the short term and in the medium and long term. In the short term, the effects on demand are worse than in the case of public expenditure. This line of selective bonuses is competing with more public spending and therefore we have to compare them both. Public spending has more important direct multiplier effects than these selective tax reductions. Because those who are beneficiaries of these tax cuts, sometimes they spend; but sometimes they waste it. Sometimes they spend it out, sometimes they invest it out. A well-directed public spending policy would make families with lower incomes, or no incomes, have the capacity to spend and, therefore, we would be sure that they would spend those resources and that they would spend them here. The effect on short-term growth would be clearer. Nor do we like the medium and long-term effect of these measures. Tax subsidies can alter economic behaviour. If they were to change for greater growth, for higher education, it would be good. If they encouraged private R & D spending, we could accept them in greater investment. But the data do not assess these effects, either in research or in the creation of enterprises or in gross private capital formation or in stable and growing employment. Medium- and long-term effects do not justify social cost or reduction of public expenditure, which does not mean that there are no tax benefits to be maintained and some tax benefits to be reviewed to improve. But there are others that can clearly be eliminated. We advocate a more progressive fiscal policy, which heightens progress by acting on the high levels of direct taxes — IRF and heritage — which revises the bonuses, eliminates those that lack significant social or economic effects; and, above all, — as we see in our amendment — which drives green taxation, where there is consensus, also the committee of experts who hired Montoro to make a proposal to him that he did not follow. Green taxation is the future, we have margin in autonomous communities — specifically in Galicia — to do it better. We propose to introduce some measures that are already functioning in autonomous communities, even governed by the People's Party, and should therefore make use of these effects. And finally, we also defend the return of the budget because we believe that another spending policy is possible. I'm going to be a lot more synthetic, because I don't have time. But I'd say it's possible to bet on a stronger and more inclusive recovery. The Strategic Plan of the Galician Union sets by 2020 a target of a 70% employment rate. The 2015 level is 61% and, above all, the planned job creation — and unlikely — for next year does not allow us to move forward in that direction. We have to make an effective employment plan, and not just do it, but execute it. Run the employment funds, which have a rate far below what would be reasonable in this situation. We have to make a social agreement, make a proper income policy. The level of basic public services needs to be recovered. We need to improve efficiency in public services, with improvements in primary care or in hospital management, with a plan to reduce dropout or strengthen educational skills. There's got to be more money for them to fight poverty levels. You can guarantee the freeness of textbooks, strengthen dependency benefits, cover risk demand — which is behind funds intended for this —, strengthen housing programs for renting for lower incomes. And we can also strengthen competitiveness in the medium term. In R+D+i, the objective of the Strategic Plan of the Union is to reach 1.7 % of GDP by 2020. 1.7 % would be only 60% of the target for the European Union as a whole. But we're right in half of this, in half of this. And we've been back in the last few years. So we're moving away from that modest target we're drawing on in the Strategic Plan. We must guarantee the execution of European funds, it is very important, because they are almost free resources for the autonomous community. And, let's see, it's the rural legislation, but the EAFRD, according to the Ministry's data — which I've been consulting — from 2014 to 2016, including an execution rate of 4.5%, the average of the autonomous communities in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u11	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u12	It's been three years since the seven of the program, and 4.5%. But it's the legislation of the countryside. We need a more transparent administration. Reforms, yes; but those that affect Cixtec or the forest industries are poorly meditationd and are not functional. They have political motivations. There's no administration. There's no effort to evaluate public policies and improve their quality. So — already finished — we are about to return the budget because it represents a conformist economic policy, resigned, conservative, continuing, an incorrect fiscal strategy with a very high increase in debt, coincident with a strong decline in the level of investment and a regressive tax policy. And because we believe that another economic policy is not only necessary but that it is also possible, which enables firm and inclusive economic recovery and strengthens competitiveness in the medium term. That's why, Counsellor, we're going to defend ourselves and we're going to vote for the budget's return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u13	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to defend the amendments, Mr Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u14	Good morning. The political position of the En Marea Parliamentary Group will be the express request for the return of budgets, for the following considerations we will make. First of all, and considering what the counsellor's speech, which has already been explained here, we believe and are convinced that we are faced with a false propaganda account, the propaganda report that the positive rates of GDP evolution are due to the type of policy followed by the Government. I mean, we don't grow up as a result of the government's economic policy. Rather, it could be said that we grew up despite the economic policy of the Government, with a remarkable exception — and laudable — that is yes: in the last quarter of 2016, as a result of the electoral budgets that have been applied to adequately influence the elections. We've already said at the time that this kind of policy is fine, but all the time, not only at the time of the election. So we know that going back to the former will lead us to the undesirable situation in which we should never enter, which is the undesirable situation that caused the crisis to last longer than it was due and had a more disastrous effect of the dues, much more disastrous. An economic management sponsored by the Troika, the Central Government and the Feijóo Union that unnecessarily extended the crisis and caused unnecessary pain in Greek society. And when we say that they have caused unnecessary pain, we are referring to what concrete economic policies, which have had specific health consequences, have given rise to those who are sitting here today in the seat of the people responsible for denying medicines to people who needed them only for economic reasons and not for medical reasons, and that is unacceptable. That's their economic policy translated into health and translated into social rights. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're sitting here in the seat of the Members. See if they've ever sat in another bank, as responsible for that indecency. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] While this happens, while the output of the macroeconomic terms occurs... does it bother you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u15	Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u16	Do you mind? These people are bothering us to tell them that they, who were here, denied medicines to hepatitis C patients who needed them to match public spending. And that can't be, that's not fair. And we're in an economic debate and this is economic, but the economy is health, the economy is right, the economy is people. And one of two: either we take care of people or we don't need budgets. And that's what we came here to denounce today, so we asked for the return of the whole Claro, of course, bother? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you're upset, you'll have opportunities to replicate, there's no problem. But now they're talking to us, because we think that getting out of the crisis is not just getting into positive terms of GDP. Getting the crisis back, getting out of the crisis, is getting back rights, rights we're supposed to lose because of the crisis. But it turns out it wasn't true, because it turns out that if we now have the same GDP as in 2009, why don't we have the same social rights as in 2009? What happened? It has happened that you took advantage of something, an excuse, they created an excuse, no less than an economic crisis, a crisis caused by financial casinos and that you had no responsibility for the workers and the workers, from which you had no responsibility for young people, to deny them their rights, their labour rights, their educational rights, their health rights, to force people to emigrate, to force people to do what they didn't want to do, because you didn't do what they had to do, which was to provide dignified living conditions. That's what they missed, and that's what they still miss. They took advantage of a crisis caused by markets, markets. What are the markets? In the year 2013, we had to face in the Spanish Parliament the indecency of changes in environmental and land management rules, as was the own Back Law, based, among other things, on calming markets. In the draft of that law, the Law on the Back, even reference was not made to environmental criteria. Why? Because the only thing that occupied them, once again, was the rappy they could do the markets on our coast. This is the kind of concern you've managed during the crisis, and they're still managing today. It was an excuse to change a social model. And what is the result of this injustice? The result of this injustice is quite clear, and perhaps you don't perceive it here in Parliament, but out there are people even now manifesting by the loss of rights, there are people suffering outside. We have a more unfair country after its management, with 207,000 people out of work in our country, with 4 out of every 10 employees charging less than 1,000 euros a month, with half of the precarious waged population, with an increase in inequality. And we don't say it, it's the AROPE indicator, it's also issued according to data issued by the IGE and by public institutes. 26% of the Welsh and Welsh people, that is, 750,000 people, are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. And on December 26, 2016, data from the IGE, the Galego Institute of Statistics came out, saying that it was increasing at more than one point the population of Galicia in extreme poverty. I don't know what's funny about them. I'm sure it's no fun for them. No, no, let's just laugh, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are 72,000 homes where all members are unemployed — we don't appreciate this — EUR 763 averages a month, the lowest pensions in the state. Is this the path the counselor was talking about? Is this the road? We don't want this path. No, we don't want it. That's why we're asking for the refund of the budgets. We want an exit from the recession that you propose; an exit from the recession, yours, which aggravates inequality and aggravates precariousness. The crisis was a scam, a scam caused by a globalized system, without standards, which was used for the destruction of the social state, the welfare state, the Wellfare State announced after World War II against Warfare State, the state of war. What the welfare state was looking for, you're destroying it, creating with this the state of distress: the state of social distress, the state of social precariousness, the state of working precariousness, the state of a young person who has no chance of living with dignity, of working, when they finish their studies, on their land. Where is most of the population going between 25 and 35 years now? Immigrant because you haven't dealt with your budgets to provide you with dignified living conditions. Is this what they're introducing us today? Is that the balance of the seven years, the eight years of management? Well, if this is the way, we don't want this path. This is just an excuse for a model change. If we lose rights through the crisis, the normal thing is that after the crisis we'll recover these rights. But we don't have that, and now we'll prove it, too, seeing the comparative paintings. This recovery was not used to recover economic rights and basic labour rights or to address change in the country's productive structure, no. We have the same GDP, the same gross domestic product, as in 2009, and yet we have 110,000 less employees in our country. Great economic recovery! This is going to come out of the crisis! We have a very negative redistribution against wage income and business surplus. An economic disaster in terms of the majority of society; not of social minorities, but of the majority of society. Galicia is, also with the same data, on the tail of economic growth. The Government of Feijóo was the worst government at the level of economic management of the history of democracy in Galicia. Of all the years that Núñez Feijóo ruled, he kept in recession for four years and in stagnation for two years the economy of our country. Is that the way we have to go? We don't think so. The recession in Galicia was much harder than in the Spanish state as a whole. Against 8,6 % of the State, 9,5 % in Galicia. We fall more and we grow less, that's the path, that's the path! We're poorer with the government of Nuñez Feijóo and his budgets; poorer since you've arrived, since you've reached the government. He made us poorer in relative terms in relation to the Spanish state's citizenship. When you arrived in 2009, you accounted for 88% of the state's income, and today it's 87%, a reduction, therefore, in comparative terms of poverty in the state as a whole. But we also have the worst evolution of employment in the whole state. Today there are 98,000 fewer busy and 45,000 unemployed than when you arrived at the government. And besides, how do you explain that differential? 53,000 people are emigrants or who have already stopped looking for employment in the public system. The worst job development in the whole state. Faced with a negative evolution of 3%, since they arrived in 2009, until 2017, in the Galician ensemble, with its government, 8.5%. Unemployment data are even worse. 5% in the state set, and 28% in Galicia. You make us comparatively poorer, relatively poorer, in the Spanish state as a whole, and this for us is not acceptable. And it destroys, of course, that myth of what they always considered Galicia, that myth of good managers. Is this good management? The management that keeps sending people to emigration? The management that doesn't make people born? Or demographic bias? Demographic decline is not a disease, it's a symptom. And it's a symptom of a shrinking Galicia that you're willing to accept and we're not. Because we believe that the instruments of intervention of politics in life — and budgets are fundamental — have to be used to reverse that situation, and you are not. What are they waiting for? That wasn't the way, it had to be another. We live in an increasingly unequal society. Wage inequality, which is one of the main inequalities that affect all people in their homes, has grown by 40% because of the cuts in wages and the increase in precariousness. If we have the same GDP as in 2009 and this change has been produced, one thing is clear: that there is an unfair redistribution of income and wealth, because with the same GDP there are many people, many workers and workers, who are much poorer than seven years ago, when you came to government. For something it will be! This isn't the way. And that's also the reason, in terms not individual but collective in families, that the average income of the Greek homes was reduced by 14%. To this we must unite and add to the heavy burden of indebtedness in budgets. Then the path must be this one. Well, if the path has to be this, let's see. Galician public debt increased twice as much at the time of Feijóo as with the previous four presidents in the previous 27 years of Autonomy. An average increase in public debt from one billion a year, magnificent management! Besides, if they still used to make productive investments!... But they didn't even use it. Then explain why they were worth it! Of the 3,900 million euros of debt that you had when you arrived, now in the 2017 budget, they have accumulated 10,600 million more the covert debt, plus the covered public debt, the building of Vigo's hospital or certain public-private collaboration contracts, which make us some accumulated debts of 3,000 million euros until the year 2040. Let's add up all that, 13 billion euros of public debt. All this we pay in debt without it reverting to investments of a productive nature. Today, in the 2017 budgets, we are devoting 17% of the resources to offset debt. Concerned economic framework, on the other hand, on which you base the 2017 budget; a scenario that assumes the macroeconomic scenarios, both for Galicia and for the Spanish state as a whole, which are the result of proper obedience; that obedience due to what Feijóo was talking about, the health officials in relation to the denial of medicines. They did it for proper obedience, did their work, did what they had to do... do what they have to do? Don't they have a decision-making capacity? Do they not have the capacity to plot an economic strategy that pulls us out of the recession through the increase in rights and through the capacity to generate quality jobs? Don't! Well, it's the same here. A scenario which is obedience due to ordoliberal catechism coming from Brussels, in the case of the European Commission, or from Frankfurt, the European Central Bank. This scenario confirms that austerity is not expansive, it leads to deceleration, and that when it ceases to meet in electoral settings, it goes back to the same path. We've reported here on other occasions, and we'll do it again today. There is an increase in the last quarter of 2016, unlike the previous quarter, which produced a change in relation to that path which is the result of the electoral cycle. They return to that by applying the same criteria. To us, to us, to us! We'll have to make elections every year! There has been a major slowdown in economic growth by saving this exception. This government forecast, which are acritically accepted, implies the explicit recognition of a lack of consistency in the current phase of the cycle, because once it has run out, once it has exhausted the momentum of external factors that did not depend on you: oil, euro-dollar parity, the European Central Bank's expansive monetary policy, just as it did not depend on you, the investments of Pemex in Galicia, and once they said yes, and then they said no, they stayed with their mouths without being able to do anything because that was not industrial policy. Industrial policy is to make investments, industrial policy is to have a strategy, industrial policy is not to make election announcements that depend on third parties, of which one then cannot account and stays open when the company then announces that it will not make investment in Punta Langosteira. That's it, that's it! Occasions! Not economic strategy, occurrences! Well, when the momentum of external factors is over, that of public spending for the electoral cycle, the Greek economy returns to the phase of weak growth, which shows that none of the underlying imbalances in the economy have been corrected. It also shows the falsity of the Government's speech. It wasn't the cuts or the pay devaluation that explained the return to positive GDP rates, but the opposite. The austerity policy has caused the recession, which has increased over time, comparatively, in relation to other economies precisely to the way in which you managed the economic cycle. All this adapted to the speculative conducts of financial systems which, in spite of this, continue to print the neoliberal character to their budgets. Disacceleration that is consolidated in this macroeconomic framework that you have acritically accepted. And despite all this evidence, both the weakness of domestic demand and the determining role that the public spending on growth in 2015-2016, with this electoral stimulus, the 2017 budget returns to what is its symbol of identity: the path of adjustment and the cuts, which are in its DNA. In our opinion, there is a brutal — in our opinion as seen from the figures you are presenting — cutting public spending. The 2017 increase, which you present as a great increase in expansive expenditure, is clearly insufficient, disappointing and, of course, taking into account your triumphal speech, something absolutely ridiculous in terms of recovery. We already know that you celebrated the recovery and celebrated the exit of the recession officially in several ways. The first one of them, recuperating the envelopes of the Sparrow. But well, all right, they pay with their money. The problem is that they also celebrated the outbreak of the crisis with other measures that do not affect a single pocket, which affect the pockets of the whole world. And I'm talking about two very specific measures, so that you can understand correctly: in relation to the energy ticket and to the Aluga program. Yes, yes. By the year 2016, the budget of the energy ticket I think was at 2,100,000 euros. By 2017, out of the DOG this morning, it's 793,000 euros. What's wrong? No more energy poverty? Don't people need help anymore? Of course, as we came out of the crisis, people have no problems! As you write in the paper or say from the rostrum that we came out of the crisis, can people already pay for the light, don't people get cold? Is that what you intend to move socially with this statement, and with this economic statement that you reflect today in the CEO? Come here and explain it in the replica shift, if you like. Aluga program. Budget forecast for 2016, approximately €170,000. By 2017, 46,000. You see there's no more housing problems, you see that youth is already well accommodated, and you don't have the need for rent help anymore. There are no families who have income to justify these programs. And since none of this is necessary, did you guys do the rest of last year's energy ticket? Illuminate Gaiás. That's indeed an occurrence, eh! That is indeed an occurrence! That is the path, the path we see from Parliament when we go out at night and we see the bulbs that are lighting up to that great mammoth of anticulture that is the City of Gaiás! Then the budgets of the culture are buried, to which I shall then refer! Yes, yes. For that. Not for other things, but for that, yes. A brutal cut in public spending, I was talking. In this scenario of an estimated GDP growth of 3.6, it cannot be understood that the budget increases by 2.9 below nominal GDP. Let's see if he's coming and he's explaining it to us, too. So, obviously, it's not an expansive account in relation to the forecast of growth itself, but quite the opposite. And let's go to the concrete of your budgets, too, so that we won't lose any more in time, that for some we're running out of time. In a comparison since you came to this point, from 2009 to 2017, of the different budget functions, we are going to demean, so to speak, the most significant features. The production of social public goods, that is, social spending, has reduced you by 14%. You see it wasn't necessary to make social investment, it doesn't. You see, with the same GDP as in 2009, a 14% reduction consolidation is normal, it's positive, that's what we have to do, because social rights are insured. There's health, health, education, insurance, everything!; therefore, there is no need for this. But the production of economic goods, capitalization and investment that makes the country, has reduced by 47%. But, of course, there's no need to invest in the country. Investments and capitalisation are not necessary, so they reduce them. Also in relation to the productive sectors and business development, which falls by 39% in that comparison too, or social protection and promotion or social policy in general, which falls by 18% in consolidated terms. Everything goes down in the budgets of the People's Party! Well, all but the debt! The debt service has increased by 3.5 times since 2009, i.e. 1,429 million euros more now than in 2009. This is the only thing that increases. Well, it also increases the reservation of Vega Sicilia de Feijóo in your home, that also increases! as a result of its management, of the budgetary management of the last seven years. This is increased as a result of the good management of this public transport plan, that transport assessment which finally cancelled the courts but which has given so many results and so much thanks to the President and the other Members who are still sitting there. Going to the most concrete: budget subfunctions comparatively between 2009 and 2017. In health, 14% less. Now, of course, there are people who miss the emergency crash! Of course, the emergency collapse, as it was not foreseeable that there was a peak of flu...! It was predictable for everyone but you. But it's not an exclusive problem of emergencies, which are collapsed, it's also a problem of the sub-dimension that currently has primary care services. But yes, you can consolidate the reduction by 14%. In education, 18%. And in culture, except to enlighten Gaiás, a 64% reduction, 64% less in culture! Then, of course, so we have a president of the board who goes out saying that Picasso was Catalan, or that he's going to bring the Chieftains. Lack of culture...! Well, that and don't know that the Luar throws it on Fridays, that it does have... cultural concern! Of course. [[Laughter]] Games for infrastructure and territorial management. You came here to talk about intermodality. Intermodality will not refer to Lugo, because with the investment in 2017 for Lugo, I think neither buses, nor trains, nor anything; let's not say any other means of locomotive! Environmental actions. A 68% decrease has been consolidated since 2009. I'm not surprised that the environmental repair of Mount Pindo is done by civil society, even though you weren't doing it either. Or that we have the fire problems that we have in summer because we don't take up environmental policy all year round. And rural desertification is the same, because it consolidates a disappearance, a reduction, of budgets devoted to that matter from 33% to 20%. Business development. Consolidation of a 51% reduction. This is the dry port of Monforte, dry business. So is the Plisan Polygon, too, the gas you know so well. In linguistic normalization, he came here and had the tough face to talk about the increase in resources for the promotion of Greek, when there has been a reduction since 2009 of 78%. It's not that much or little is being reduced, it's that, if you see the data from the IGE, the Galego Institute of Statistics, with the continued loss of speakers, especially from the young population, you've made the gastronomic expression "glorious of the Greek" an ideological expression: "they're ashamed of the Greek." And that's why they've consolidated this reduction to linguistic normalization, which is one of the roughest that is produced solidly for budgetary purposes. The only thing that's going up during these years is public debt, which rises by 354%. The only one! What about 2017? For the adjustment returns, the adjustment returns, the reduction in the weight of the budget in relation to GDP, the loss of public expenditure in relation to the economy. In 2009, the weight of budgeting within the Galician economy was 20%; today it is 15%. We have less capacity to affect, from an economic point of view, from the public point of view of the economy, what happens in society at an economic level, and hence also at a social level. Spabilen!, that's not the way! Because the budget can stimulate the economy, it can assume the recovery of rights, it can guarantee the dignity of people, but for that it takes a different path. There are EUR 3 billion less in relation to 2009, which results in a deterioration in the quality of public services, social services and the modernisation of the economy, the productive sectors and the infrastructures of our country. At this rate, at this spectacular rate of growth that you announce in the 2017 budgets, we would need until 2031 to return — in real terms — to the place where we were in 2009. It's not bad on the road, eh! I say it won't be a marathon, it'll be like Rajoy's march when he comes here to walk the province of Pontevedra. The councilman of Fairy comes to say that in 2017 GDP is again similar to that of 2009. And if that's in terms of wealth, why isn't it in terms of rights? We insist, why, if we have the same capacity or the same wealth, don't we have the same rights? Why do we have our salaries devalued? Why do our people have less wage guarantees? Why do we have access to fewer products and to fewer basic services from public services? Tell us why. We don't understand. Do you believe in a threatening Galicia? We don't believe in that shrinking Galicia. We could ask a lot of questions about the 2017 budget. How can it be explained that current income increases by only 1.4 % while nominal GDP increases by 3.6%? Why did autonomic funding increase last year by 504 million and this year the increase amounts only to 79 million? How do we explain that capital expenditures, real investments, capital transfers, increase by just EUR 54 million, while debt is at EUR 422 million? Where's that differential going? Is that a good example of managing public debt? Is that why we owe ourselves? We believe that we should not be indebted to for that. How can one simply accept that the International Compensation Fund increases by only EUR 1 million, so that it remains at an unacceptable historical minimum? Why does Junta accept all this? Why do you accept it to grow below the state average next year? Why are you conforming to this? They get along for a reason, because there's no economic strategy, there's only one accounting exercise here. But such an accounting exercise is that, on page 105 of the Economic and Financial Report, you repeat a paragraph of the previous year without even changing the figures. That's their economic strategy: repeat, repeat, repeat. A waning Galician, a Galician you don't believe in, and that's why it's getting crowded, and you're correcting nothing but numbers, without changing strategy. Even literally, without changing paragraphs. New Government, old politics. So the Government repeated the fixed picture of what was before. So this is a routine accounting exercise, not political strategy. As for you, it's a little novelty, so they also give us little time and concentrate the whole budget debate on one day, instead of doing it in three. We believe, on the other hand, in an alternative model, in a model of departure from the recession with recovery of rights, because what we want to recover is a model of state of well-being in which everyone has the same opportunities to develop in life, something that you are denying with this kind of budgets. We want a new economy, based on an inclusive growth model that doesn't leave anyone out and, therefore, that's fairer and more solid. We want a sector-by-sector bet that shows greater added value in the industrial branches, that makes productivity on the whole, the opportunity to grow and emerge from the crisis around the world, not just for a few. We want everyone to get the job back, but in a stable and fair way, and that's the norm and not the exception. Labour reforms were not justified on the basis of this kind of crisis situation that we were living in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u17	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u18	It is therefore necessary to proceed differently. The growth of economic activity is at the root of the system, well now it is up to public administrations to ensure that growth in GDP recovers rights. We want to regain rights, we want this to serve to recover basic social rights. And in the meantime, we have the energy ticket that you keep reducing, and that you use to illuminate Gaias. As a final conclusion, we have concluded from the En Marea Parliamentary Group that the 2017 budget plan is restrictive and therefore continues the path of adjustments and cuts which, together with the exhaustion of external factors, is causing in our view an intense slowdown in economic growth. A budget which is reduced in real terms and which reduces the resources devoted to public services, benefits, social protection and the country's capitalisation. In response to this resignation, In Marea formulated an economic alternative that is the result of our social and political discourse, with the objective of increasing the budget by 690 million euros. And we explain how to do this: by improving income, with the objective of financing a policy that drives growth, transforms economic and social development and acts in favour of the majority of society. You are meek with economic powers; you are meek with the acquittal of the economy, with the acquittal of the country. It's necessary to be brave with that and not conform. We didn't settle, two days ago Marilar Aleixandre read his entry speech at the Royal Galaga Academy and, speaking of the landscape, of the landscape that was human interaction in nature, he said that "it was worth exercising resistance, terminating the landscape and, above all, imagining, and making that imagination a horizon of a better world." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u19	Thank you, Mr. Villares. You have the word now, the councillor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u20	Thank you again, Mr. President. I'll try to respond in a grouply and orderly way, which here has been moving forward from postures many times completely in the antipodes. I think you can say things without reaching certain expressions like those that were used here, and I, who are very vehemently in my exhibition, will try to do it as orderly as possible. So I'm going to try to answer those information blocks because — let me express myself — basically, what was stated here was what had already been presented in commission when I had the honour of defending budgets, in general of the board and my particular council. Therefore, it was quite predictable where the general issues raised by each of the spokespersons today would come from, if it is true that they have brought up new questions which I will also seek, little by little, depending on my knowledge, to answer. Firstly, and without any kind of dialectical confrontation, we actually have two models — of society and economics — very different from the different members and groups that we are in this House, we do not hide it. But I think it's very little that the electoral body has manifested itself and, in a very correct way, by the way, as long as the electoral body manifests itself, it does it in a direction, for something will be! And always in a right way, whatever the outcome. [[Applause]] A question that I have highlighted several times, in a repetitive way in my speech, is how much we have done, because we, if we start from realism, act professionally — that's called rigour, something that I haven't seen in any intervention today — and we act positively. That doesn't mean we're always right. What is more, this action that we have carried out all these years has a certain prestige and external recognition, both of people who know a few issues of general economics and other types, including political positioning. So I can't agree. But from my intervention and from the intervention of this government in recent years, starting with the president himself, we never conform, we have a dose of non-conformity. Why? Because we believe that with our positive action we can correct a lot of things, but starting from that realism. What we can't do — as one of the groups has been ahead — questions from night to morning and in one year reverse the situation. Healthy growth. He was also ahead with a certain grace by some of the speakers. I think it's a concept that's getting a lot, even in recent times. Not beyond last week, Montoro himself uses the concept of healthy growth for the first time. Go ahead and we're not going to ask you for any kind of copyright, but to keep certain ideas quiet. There are three steps you can take. First, they denied the crisis where they had the opportunity to manage. Here too, for a part. They didn't know how to manage it, and, once again, in their ideological position, they don't recognize the right economic recovery that's been taking place in Galicia for two and a half years. Let us be clear: our option is indeed not because of the fiscal deficit, as we have just said, but because of fiscal consolidation. The deficit is very important, but it's just a very specific result and option, which is fiscal consolidation. In essence, what fiscal consolidation comes to say is a control of results, but not an abuse of debt. Indeed, I also agree with what one of the proponents has expressed, in the sense that we do not demonize debt. The debt, in essence, depends on the level, but also on its structure. So the best thing is to have an budget. When we question that additional tenth — which we are not going to lose in any way the potential that approaches us —... because the most important thing in a budget is not just the figures that some and others have shown — perhaps in an abusive way I was bombarding in my first intervention — two things are important: on the one hand, the quantification of the government's position, but, above all, what conveys certainties, which is the way to move an advanced economy the main actors: they say families, they say companies, they say entities, even many of them without a profit. But at the same time, too, an budget that tells us what it is inside: the important mass of efficiency that has been earned by the Autonomous Community, as seen also in evolution, I believe that more than correct of chapter III, of interest; and, on the other hand, never lose sight of what has meant reflection, the deep economic reflection that we have lived from the year 2008 until mid-2014; that discipline must never be lost, and that is called efficiency of doors inside. Development of GDP. I think you're starting from a mistake, I'm not going to talk about manipulation, but I think it's a mistake, a manifest error, and some formulations have been exposed by some of the speakers with different intensity, but I think it's a mistake. Let's see. We will agree that the year before the crisis is 2007, the year that could be the base year. In 2008 there is already a deep crisis, denied, in principle, by certain groups present here, and in a much clearer way in 2009 and successive. Taking as a base year the year 2007 — I think it is correct, methodologically — there are two questions we would like to address: firstly, the volume variations that the Greek economy had were 99.27%, in Spain 99.52%, and yet they are able to show their entire dialectic arsenal against this policy, this government of the People's Party, Mr Feijóo; 99.27%/99.52% is what there is today. But, in addition, if we do this analysis in terms of GDP per capita, it turns out that in Galicia we have 100.06 % of the 2007 level and Spain has 97.01 %, and again everything we need to hear. Can you please who you're talking to? No way, but that's the data, and that's how we'll always try to focus on things, from that rigour we preach. But the most important thing, indeed, is that in mid-2017 we will go over the year with a bigger increase, which is 2008, as a result of the crisis beginning in a clear way in mid-2008. So go ahead. They also made several references all of you and each of you to the macro painting, macro painting that, once again, I think they're prudent, realistic, balanced. For one, who is already having a certain age, and is dedicated to this of public policy for a long time ago, you will understand that when you hear certain issues, such as when it was 2015 that you laughed at the results that we proposed then, 2% — and we have already passed it clearly—, 2016, which has already touched me to present the budgets, and you would also have to hear the groups that were here, let's go!, laughter came from Hórero to San Caetano; and once again they were over, and so on. Please review, even what some groups said last year, as I like to go through to see where you can come from. But it's that, in addition, when we look at the demand components, it has fully balanced demand components and I think that prudent, in a perfectly impacted way that we knew when we presented, made and made budgets by our Galego Institute of Statistics, from a purely professional perspective. Then we don't run from cooks or anything like that. And it turns out that the domestic demand we have, the domestic demand, of 2.4%, and it turns out that we have it very similar to Spanish. But when we analyze the internal demand components, it turns out that what really depends on administration is two issues. Basically, public consumption, 2%, which is, but in the rest of Spain, the Spanish State, turns out to be 0.9% and we are lacking ambition. But if that is what really depends on us, such as gross capital formation. There is a component in gross capital formation that depends solely on our administration; by the way, the autonomous community where you invest most as an investor effort, the autonomous community where you invest most per capita, and what you need to hear here by some of the groups! [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, a very balanced painting. But in addition, when we look at our surroundings, it turns out that we laughed at the evolution that we had in 2015, in 2016 and presumably in 2017, which is almost twice what exists in Germany, in France, let's not say in Italy or Portugal, throughout the eurozone. But, then, what are we left with? We are recovering for the third consecutive year and we are going to regain relative position with regard to our common European. So, I think it's more than conformed to this reality. But at the same time, always the b face of the coin, and for us is the priority, but the priority from what we can achieve, which is the increase in equivalent working time — hence, occupation, first question — and the decrease in unemployment accordingly, along with the occupation by demographic factors. But it's undeniable: demographic and age factors cannot be corrected from year to year. Let's not play with the questions, let's not make such trilero movements. The 2017 budget. Some expression that he heard about his constant, constant tenacity by the reference they make to the 2009 budget, even allowing some comparison to function level and subfunction. If something became clear is that the 2009 budget was an unrealistic budget, totally painted. This year, for the first time, our non-financial expenditure exceeds the parameter we had at that time. I said it in my first intervention, and they don't want to see it, there's no worse deaf than what you don't want to hear, there's no worse blind than what you don't want to see. And to show you a button, as when you refer to debt: the increase in government debt Feijóo... yes, everything, yes, but minus 940 and some million euros, which we are now returning, of which it was 2008, 600 million euros than it was 2009, 1,600 million euros from which the income was painted. So the real income, of which we've already paid nearly EUR 1 billion right now, was under 2009 of what we already have in 2017. And therefore they are clearly expansive. When opposition groups here are also criticized, we are clearly expansive, because each and every game — year 2016, year 2017 — is positive, minus one, interest or interest, indeed, as was introduced by one of the opposition spokespersons. Don't be afraid of your debt. The debt, especially in the governments of President Feijóo, has acted as an anticyclical character, which is where he has to act, so we act. But we have to recognize the level we had at the start and what we have now, being the autonomous community where the debt has decreased, 3,600 million euros less than the comparison with the rest of the autonomous communities, and with results from the point of view of economic growth, which, as we have just seen, are completely comparable to what happened in Spain. So let's stop by defeatist messages, knowing that this is the right way, knowing that much remains to be done, how we try to transfer to all of you. So, health, education, rural, concepts were also introduced by some of the groups with this comparative, from my false point of view, and receded in the most absolute falsehood, compared to a budget that was totally discredited, as it had been totally discredited when we were criticized for our estimates and the fundamental error that occurred in 2009, which was out of five percentage points!, when sometimes they criticized this government that is talking to them about estimation errors in more or less ten percent, five percentage points in 2009!; really, it's a difficult thing. So the comparison you're handling is totally false, wrong, and, besides, you know him perfectly well, and you powerfully call me attention. As is also evident in developments, for example, when we put another face to money, which is public employment. Someone here at a certain point suggested that if public employment in the Autonomous Community of Galicia during the whole stage of crisis was the most stable job in any autonomous community. The only really important download was on purely bureaucratic devices. That's what reality says. Why? Because our option was to not transfer savings into chapter I, through the size of people and the employment they provide all these services, to health care, to education, to social services, to justice, to the most bureaucratic elements, which are what we make up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It has also been said here that certain data were correct, as well as that of exports, but let me correct it and recreate me a little too in the matter, because not all is textile, not all is automotive — welcome textile, welcome to automotive, by the way. But it's also in the food industry, in the can, that is, they're giving us clues, they're giving us indications that the economy of Galicia is increasingly a more modern economy, in a very clear way, our economy is increasingly diversified. You mean we've all run out and each of the parameters? Not at all. But no, they do not recreate themselves in certain purely timely matters. As is the way of recreating into certain messages that do not sympathize with the data again when we analyze them in the most aseptic way possible, given that it is very difficult to be aseptic in certain issues, such as when it is the subject of poverty, to which you refer, the topic of social inclusion, the same subject of emigration. But it turns out, when we look at official data, official indicators, it turns out that the current poverty risk rate is 19.4% and it was 20.9% in 2008. Are we happy about that? How are we going to be happy when we're talking about a rate approaching 19.4%, when I was at 20.9%? But it's only in Spain that it's 22.1%, and we're still wrong that it's wrong, wrong that it's wrong, in a certain message of character... let's go! As regards, for example, the percentage of homes that have also been introduced with a great deal of difficulty to reach the end of the month, it turns out that the data presented by the Autonomous Community of Galicia are 7.1%; 10.5% we had it in 2008, and 13% is Spain at this time - 13.7% - and we continue to recreate ourselves in this type of situation. No way, I wish it was a zero percent. But comparative data tells us that we're not worse, comparative data tells us that we're at the best of autonomous communities. But besides, most importantly, it's not the data that is being recreated, and some people who have also collected very specific data that can come out today in a way, again, interested, interpreting them running. It's that our performance is always positive. So, in these issues, the most important, once this reality has been detected, which is manifestly better — so we recognize it — is that we are much better than other autonomous communities. For that we have, for example, our unique social agenda, our unique social agenda, which tells us that we have to have income support actions, Risga, because there are many people who need this type of income support. Energy poverty, electric ticket. Yes sir, electric ticket, of course; they also laughed when we set it up. I suppose the budgetary changes will be quite common and there will always be enough to support these families who are going through it. Vivenda. It's just that we're here again with the Reconduce program, the rental bonus program, the empty housing program. But if we are the ones who are putting on the table in a clear way, among all of us, once we are, let's agree, let's get closer, let's change what needs to be modified, but let's have a single system on this issue. In terms of social inclusion, of dependence, this is a positive action that this government is carrying out, because the important thing is not the data, but what is done to correct this situation. Like unemployment and occupation, this catastrophic message that was launched by certain issues. In no way can we be happy when we have the unemployment rate we have and the job is like this. But to deny that we have spent more than three years with a strong fall in our unemployment rate — and I hope it was higher — and an increase in occupation in a very clear way, and we still think that in 2009, in 2008... If the question is where we are right now. It is that the situation has changed very much, in a very clear way, since mid-2014, and we must continue to perfect the models that lead us to that at this time we have already finished 2016 with 71,002 undefined contracts; yes, but it is that undefined procurement — which is not being said, increasing to almost 10% — is above what the eventual contract was. It is a very positive trend change that we must continue to maintain. So with that unemployment level, which we estimated at 15.6% for the year 2017, two points below. It's the measures, the realism that we're trying to transmit and that the electoral body also recognizes it. It's not worth saying that this can be arranged in a year or two, in no way. But again, the most important thing is not to realize that constitution, to describe that reality that we all have in a more fortunate way. The important thing is a proactive action. And the proposed actions lead us to increase the employment funds by 15%, to which we have 12.6 million euros more for information and guidance, 12% more for the training of the unemployed, 5 million more for the training of the unemployed. Those are the measures we have to deal with. And it's not so much a concern to make a package and call it a employment program, it's not so much a plan's conformation, it's more real and to analyze if what we're developing up to now has turned out to be something as important as what was done last week at the Board of Trustees when we approve the relationship between education, economics and employment councils. For what? To take advantage of our resources in education, to be able to train and triple by three people who are studying our FP and it turns out that they have no enabling title right now. That's called intelligence enough and taking advantage of resources. That is to do more with less, when certain issues are brought in by some of the groups. Emigration. Another machaclare you have. But how can anyone be glad that there's only one person leaving Galicia for immigration when he's not wanted? Step one. Second stage: but when you really analyze the data, it tells us that global emigration, 2015, presumably in 2016, both in global emigration and in young people, it turns out that we are the autonomous community where the percentage is less manifested. You mean we're happy? No way, but let's put things in their own terms or places. I am also determined by the grace that has commented that it was Mrs. Pontón: the increase in the remunerations that the members of the Government have. I am very surprised at you, who, being young, has been in Parliament for a few years, when on the one hand you know that any salary increase is to recover the level we had in 2012; you did it, eh! By the way, this affects all public employees, but it also affects people who work in the concert, of course people who work in universities, more than 100,000 people; it is to recover the level that was there in January 2012 more than 1% that was fruit last year. The only cut left, as you know, is the famous Zapatero cut, that's the only cut left. But it's when, in addition, we compare the President of the Board with that calm and the fundamental determination that Mrs. Pontón has to say things, in an budget that you approved and it turns out that the President... Yes, look, in 2008, Mrs. Pontón, in 2008, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It turns out that when we see the budget that you approved by the President of the Board, which I think was more of the PSOE, 85,000 euros that you practically had; the vice president, almost 80,000 euros. How much do you think he's covering the president of the 72,600 board? It's just that it's amazing what you have to hear in this Parliament sometimes, it's that it's really announcing, it's announcing, it's just to stay... it turns out that the president of the current board, we have something like 6,000 euros, 6,000 euros, nearly 7,000 euros less than the vice president of the board in 2008 and we tear off the clothes. [[Applause]] It's incredible, really. Self-financing. With all the calculations, Mrs. Pontón, and with all my respects, because it was the only person who handled that point in a clear way, with all the economic calculations that you have been introducing, very seriously questioned, is that to talk here about certain economic issues and then relate them to the system that you defend by coupon, is that we go! is that... ; it is that if all the calculations do them as they do, they are completely disabled yourself. They have a total and absolute theme for talking about territories, for talking about political issues, and they don't realize that politics is also made from a financing system like the current one, that this government has always rejected, that we have signed with certain conditions, that it evolved at the worst moment of the economic crisis in which the Kingdom of Spain was, where it begins to wake up at the moment and where we have always maintained the same: coherence, defending the interests of the Greeks, effective cost — because we believe that people have the same rights everywhere, and actual costs can be measured — rigor, normality. Why don't we have that question? At the moment, as I tell you, we will speak for all groups, but it is seen and verified that some are only interested when we find ourselves always right. No, look, there are some groups -- and they're becoming smaller in size -- that always have the gift of reason. We're a little bit more like that. [[Applause]] So we'll talk more often today too in the afternoon about taxation. Of course there are two totally antithetic models, of course there are two antithetic models. Even when in some intervention some of you talk about exhausting your fiscal capacity, we don't want to wear out or exhaust anyone. What we want is that truly our general performance, with that so selective decrease that we are doing, even in tax benefits, let these families and these companies, these entrepreneurs who at one time choose to make their change in the current situation to have more economic growth and better development on our land, those entrepreneurs and also those families who have to cope with that consumption that is recovering more, which would be very interesting to hear from some positions of opposition groups that would be cut off those tax benefits than by 300 and one. Tell me where, tell me where. Not succession tax? Tell me where. In families that have children? Tell me where. Not about housing as we just proposed? Be brave and say, please, where you're going to diminish that 92 percent of a social character that has tax benefits, which is another way of always working in fiscal policy. They don't wear out the model so much, they're a little sweeter in how to handle the issues. [[Applause]] So, I think we'll talk about this and others a little bit later, about the tax issue as well. They don't make certain mistakes, in a machacona way, like when they come and talk about debt. May these heights confuse what is the debt that is under the principle of integrity, collected in the budget, of what is the net debt! It is truly worrying that they continue to fear and compare the net debt, the winnings that occur every year, it is truly worrying that they continue there. That's why I'm telling you that if in this fundamental concept you're not able to recompose your position, what will you do when you look at the scales or certain coupon issues? No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u21	Thank you, Counselor. Round of the non-amendant parliamentary group. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u22	Good morning, gentlemen. As you can imagine, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to reject the restitution amendments, and we are going to do so for three main reasons. First of all, because we believe that the accounts that the Government brings to the House, at three weeks after being appointed, because there was a fixed picture, because before it came out another picture, which was no longer so fixed because the People's Party rose by 3% of its percentage of vote, and as a result, indeed, the Government was able to bring the budgets to the House in three weeks. The first reason, therefore, is because we believe in the accounts that the Government brings to the House. [[Applause]] The second reason, for the consequences that would have been adopted by these amendments, which would have stopped Galicia, left Galicia without budgets. And thirdly, because of the little attractiveness of the opposition's proposal. We said that, first of all, because it's a proper budget. It is certainly an expansive budget that consolidates the growth of the economy, a much healthier growth that sustains the Greek economy in 2009, and because it increases investment, favours exports, improves the position of domestic demand, essentially consumption, and also increases — therefore they are expansive — public spending. They reflect, in short, the good evolution of an economy that you hoped would sink into the crisis and that is growing above 3%, thus fulfilling, above all, what establishes the Strategic Plan of Galicia, which is a 2.5 % increase in the annual average by 2020, and which certainly reflects an economy that has already overcome the economic recession in strict terms, but which still has many challenges to overcome, essentially correcting the inequalities that left the crisis itself. In short, an economy that, unlike destroying 9% of annual employment, which was the economy of 2009, generates a 10% decrease in unemployment per year, which is the latest available data for 2016. A job that, in fact, has much to improve but which is improving. The recently published labour cost survey says Galicia is the fifth community that increases wages most in relative terms, and the sixth in absolute terms, and the third quarter EPA says that there are 29,800 more full-time workers, the full-time, and 5,900 less part-time, so that Galicia has a full-time job of 86.9% of all employees, while in Spain it is 85.44%. So we're also a little better at that than Spain. Budgets that reinforce growth in an environment that is going to be less favourable, certainly, for the prices of oil, the possibility of inflation and its impact on interest, Brexit and the uncertainties also generated by U.S. escalating protectionism. And that's why forecasts are reasonable, a growth contained in the outline precisely that was provided for in the Strategic Plan of Galicia. Expansive budgets. Total spending capacity increases by 600 million euros in the last two years, that is, 400 voters are consolidated and another 200 million euros. So if last year's voters were, this year's growth is consolidated and further increases, really because there's little to say; another thing would be that last year's growth and this year's fall, but obviously the growth incorporated in last year's budgets has been strengthened. Consumption increases by 2.2%; the public, slightly below private consumption; and in exports their support means that they are growing by 13% annually, the positive trading balance of Galicia is EUR 3.000 million, capital formation grows by 3.1%, and this is done in these budgets with less deficits, 0.5%-0.6%, so that Galicia in the accumulated crisis has been due, has had a deficit in the crisis of 9.5%; the autonomous community average was 15.4%, 2009-2015; this implies that Galicia has less debt — as the socialist spokesman acknowledged — in Galicia increased by 29%, i.e. 18.8% of GDP; in autonomous communities by 45%, reaching 25% of GDP. Here, of course, we can talk about the budgets that consolidate last year's growth, the increase, they're electoral, but, Mr. Villares, I have the impression that whoever's thinking about other electoral processes is you and we wish you luck at that assembly you're going to have. [[Applause]] And we also congratulate him because, even though he continues to criticize how much Galician debt grows, I want to remind him that the group you belong to — which is the group that was previously called AGE and which is now called Mareas, which also has Podemos, are the Podemos tides — the group that you represent in 2013 wanted to be indebted to by 410 million more, in 2014 by 250 million, in 2015 by 150, in 2016 by 200 million. If we get to approve your amendments, instead of the 10,000 million Galicians we owe 11,634, instead of 18.7% of GDP we owe 20.6% of GDP, but you come here saying we owe you a lot. This year, fortunately, the tide for the first time does not ask for indebtedness, which means that everything we always said that it was impossible to blow and survive at the same time, to be indebted more and to have less debt, because it seems to have had some result, and we congratulate you that you consider that the debt indebtedness level for this year of Unity of Galicia, which is imposed by the Troika and which is imposed by Brussels and which is imposed by the deficit, is the right thing. We've been saying this all this time since 2009. Well, they're expansive in spending, but also for the effects of their fiscal policy. We lower the income tax, the progressive rate is today more progressive than it was in 2011, because it benefits the IRPF's fall to 80% of the low-income German taxpayers. Succession tax leaves taxpayers tax free over 400,000 euros per heir, i.e. 99% of the population receiving an inheritance. Tax benefits are 391 million, with a clear redistributive component. 92% are social, that is, they favor groups of disabled people, dependents, numerous families, or for the acquisition by the new people of the first residence. And we also maintain the system's progressivity, not only because we increase the IRPF rate, but because we maintain a wealth tax; a tax that allows, among other things — as you can see in budget memory — that this year's direct tax revenues rise by 1.9% and indirectly by 0.5%. Clearly, the tax discount has an expansive effect. I'm not going to argue if it's more multiplier than the public sector has, since it's progressive it benefits above all from lower incomes and therefore translates into consumption, which was what the opposition said was missing from Galicia's growth: strengthening consumption, private demand. I am not going to enter that discussion, which is true is that budgets are expansive because they leave more money in the hands of families, but also through spending, they also put them — as you can see — precisely with the recovery of the purchasing power of the year 2012 by the officials. It's funny to say the opposition groups that we're facing restrictive budgets. When in this budget processing proceeding the President of the Pontevedra Parliament said that theirs were wonderful because they grew by 2.20 % — and here we are growing practically 3% — nobody in the opposition said they were restrictive — when they grew less than those of the Union — and those of the Crown MPs said they were growing by 0.5%, which was spectacular! —and I quote literally—but no one in the opposition said they were enormously unexpansive in relation to the Galician Union. Well, these are the things of life. When a budget grows by 2,7 % is restrictive, and when it grows by 2,20 % or 0.5 % it has to be applauded because it's a deeply expansive budget. We are not going to fall into these contradictions, and of course we congratulate the Members who approve their budgets in time and not those who continue to turn them around because they do not have most and withdraw investments and decisions. A number of budgets that we support, ultimately, by their priorities: containment of current expenditure; increase in capital expenditure of 3.8%; less spending on debt service, as the adviser has already explained — reduced the debt service by around 30% in relation to 2015 — more social, with 229 million euros; with more spending on employment and training, 80 million euros, a 12% increase. Finally, because we believe that it is a good budget for the current situation in Galicia, which will be able to push for those 20,000 full-time jobs and therefore continue to improve the situation of the entire population of Galicia. The second reason was that we did not approve the refund amendments because that would stop Galicia. We know what the consequences of the extensions to the budgets are, and I simply quote the floor and refer to what both the President of the Parliament of Pontevedra and the President of Coruña said, who see as an achievement having approved the budgets in time, when they did not pass through any electoral procedure. It is true that it does not approve budgets for the country does not allow the recovery of public salaries; expenditure capacity is lost because it is expansive; in addition, there is more uncertainty for economic operators and the effects of tax policies are lost. What would be contractual, therefore, is not to approve budgets of the procedure, but to reject them and start again from zero. And the third reason is the unattractive alternative to the opposition, because basically — as could be seen by the interventions, as well as by the text of the amendments to the whole — what they want is to return to 2009. It is a common denominator of the three groups of the particularly resounding opposition in the Podemos tides, which did not formally participate in what was that Bipartite but more enthusiastically defended the return to 2009 and the spending levels of 2009. The counselor has already come forward, but I'd like to give them some data. In 2009, the Bipartite approved an budget of 11,426 million that — excluding transfers from the state to local corporations, which are now not included — would be EUR 10,558 million. In 2017 it is 9,000 million euros. When they say we spend little and we have to spend as in 2009, they refer to these 1,500 million euros, but they forget what was the execution of that budget, all the holes that were in that budget, where the revenues were inflated, the collection for sale of real estate grew, for example, when obviously we were already in the housing bubble crisis, the income was raised by heritage transmissions and all kinds of income. The execution was €8.9 billion, which is already a much more similar figure to the 9,000 we budget. But of these EUR 8,987 million, we have to say that we must and we are paying the 1,600 of the negative liquidations of that year, and we are already left at EUR 7,387 million, because 1,600 were forced indebtedness which also implied that autonomic financing had to be signed, as a result that they would be returned in a single year if the system of self-financing was not signed. Obviously, those 1,600 million didn't arrive was a bad budgetary technique for the Central Government, not the Government of the United States, but the truth is that those budgets, to which you want to arrive now, included 1,600 million euros that never arrived and that we're returning. Finally, the reality of these EUR 7,387 million remaining, discounted by the 1,600 of the negative liquidations, is that there were also EUR 600 million in debt, when in this year's budget there are EUR 300 million in debt. You owe the 1,600 of the negative settlement and additional 600 of the formally issued debt. That is, with actual and predictable revenues we have a spending capacity of about EUR 2 billion more than in 2009; 2,800 million of the 2009 budget imbalances, 2,200 of which were due — 1,600 of negative settlement and 600 of debt — and 600 of cuts, because even with 2,200 million indebtedness, it was capable of covering the budgeted expenditure. Today back to 2009, the truth deserves only one answer: No, thank you. Finally, it is so obvious that they want to go back to 2009 that the budgets they present to us are again inflated. In IRPF, In Marea, 20 million euros; the PSOE, 35 million euros. If your rate is applied, instead of 35, 13. BNG wants to raise 23 million euros, but if it applies its rate, 7 would be raised. In heritage — which we agreed with the Socialist Party at the worst of the crisis — would be incorporated, with the PSOE proposal, 9,500 contributors, and, instead of raising the EUR 40 million, 15 million would be raised; a new hole. En Marea's is impossible to count because they do not set any tariffs. And so on with the rest of the taxes. In Marea, it aims to increase the burden of environmental damage tax caused by certain uses of corred water by 52 million euros; that is, a reasonable rise by 360%, which would imply that tribute. A tax on commercial areas, controversial and under trial. A tribute — and I speak of the tribute they are commenting on — as is that of the sugars that will establish the state. Therefore, $500,000 would be left out of our budget because we cannot establish autonomous taxes on those of the state. We're moving ahead with the implementation of an autonomic tax on empty floors. The two that are approved are referred to in the Constitutional. And so on, until we get to a tax that the Socialist Group proposes on the emission of nitrous oxide to the atmosphere by commercial aviation, which, of course, would pay the airlines coming to the Greek airports, and which we are subsidizing from the municipalities for more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u24	It'll also make them pay more taxes. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is an absolutely incredible income budget. We do not want to inflate budgets again in order to incur deficits or threaten the sustainability of public budgets and services. They recall that in 2008 the Board of Auditors warned that 600 million euros more than the budgeted were spent on health, which put the sustainability of the Greek Public Health System at risk. We obviously don't want to go back to 2009. We are pleased that in health we spend 42% of the budget and not 33% of the budget spent in 2009, and that, despite that, in 2015 there are 17,000 surgical interventions more; that the number of hospital consultations is 460,000 more than in 2009; or even that we are able, with less resources, to launch the hospitals of Lugo and Vigo; to expand the hospital complex of the Coruña; to start the one of Salnes and the one of the Costa; and that of Pontevedra, Ferrol and Santiago are already planned. In addition, spending more than 100 million euros, Mr. Villares, on drugs that did not exist in 2009 for hepatitis C patients. Obviously, we don't want to go back to 2009 to spend 570 million euros on social promotion when in 2017 we're going to spend 669, 17% more. We don't want to go back to 2009 so that there are 156 high charges instead of 87, that is, 40% less; to spend 9 million euros on cabinet staff and not 6, that is, 30% less; to help the locomotive be 15 million euros instead of 9, that is, 40% less; to get the cannons — where the canons are also included in the Cunqueiro Alvaro — not 47 million euros but 46; to get the health contracts and concerts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u25	Finish it, Mr. Puy. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u26	...—end, one second, Mr President—from EUR 217 million to EUR 194 million; i.e. 10% less in health concerts. Or, Mr. Villares, so that in the City of Culture, where the Bipartite in 2009 included a transfer of 41 million euros, either as in 2017, of 9 million euros; that is, 77% less. Ladies and gentlemen, not the amendments because we do not want to stop Galicia, because we have to approve the budgets, because we do not want to go back to the unrealistic budgets, and because to say that no to the refunds amendments is to say yes to the growth and progress of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u27	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica of amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, Counsellor, must start by telling you that it seems to me that your tone, and also the way in which you respond to the groups in this Parliament in this first debate in relation to budgets, is quite unfortunate, and I'm going to tell you why. It seems to me that in politics, when you come here to say what you felt you had to say, without arguments, trying personally to disqualify the people we are here with the same legitimacy as you, because it is the citizens who voted for us to be in this Parliament, it seems to me a lack of respect for democracy, this institution and the citizens of this country, who deserve something more, Counsellor. [[Applause]] Because look, the argument that how they won, we can't present amendments, which is to say that democracy doesn't make any sense. So, if we tabled amendments, are we going against democracy? Or are we here with the same legitimacy as you? In fact, we present amendments as legally established because we believe that things are not doing well. And nobody denies the legitimacy of the Greek Government to rule, but you do not take away the legitimacy to oppose them, because, if not, what you are asking secretly is that we shut Parliament down for four years because they believe that, as most have, they are the only ones who can speak. I'm telling you that this isn't the theory that defends the Galician Nationalist Block, and that we're going to stay here even if it bothers you, even if it seems bad to you. We will continue here because the citizens voted for us to be in this Parliament. Look, we've talked about a lot of things, and I think it's important that we talk about the social reality in this country in Parliament. I know statistics are often deceptive, but there are things that, without putting in there, are the statistics, if they're telling us what's going on, the trends that are happening, and that should worry you. We are very concerned about the growth of poverty, and we do not invent it, Counselor. Pick up the IGE data. What is worrying is data from the IGE that tells us that in the year in which we are begged to leave the crisis in Galicia, poverty increases. We have poverty risk rate: 2013, 15.4; 2014, 19.5. In the state it remained stable. We take the Arope index and it also happens exactly the same. So you're not worried that this healthy growth will sustain itself over the growth of poverty in our country? I'm telling you, I'm not satisfied with anything if there's more poverty in other places, because when a government is always looking at those who are worse, it's never able to move forward. And that's what happens to the Galician Union all the time, so that there are others who are worse, it seems that reality is all solved here. And these people, who are increasingly at risk of greater poverty, need to have some kind of response on the part of Together. And the answer, I'm very sorry, cannot be reduced to an increase in risk, there will have to be some kind of change in redistributive policy and in the creation of quality employment, which is where its government is clearly failing. You have the theme — and I still insist — that they always deny the problem of emigration in our country. This is very serious, Mr Feijóo — Mr Feijóo, I am sorry, that you have not been in the whole debate — this is very serious, Counsellor, because you know how many new people are missing in Galicia? But it's not because she wasn't born, it's because she was born. Statistics are saying there are 100,000 workers under 35 years of age in our country, and you're happy because you're lowering the unemployment rate! That's the drama, Counselor, of this country, and that trend is not solved by these budgets. That's why I told you that the summary of economic, social and job creation policies in your budget are really a slap in the face of many people who think the government would help them. And we see how their healthy growth really is a growth over inequality, and in a model where the rich are going to be richer and the poorer. But in that model, Galicia is losing positions and the German Government doesn't have an economic strategy that will respond to us in a moment of crisis. You're not worth the unemployment rates. But it's not worth any data on the destruction of companies in our country either. And one very worrying issue is that half of the innovative companies in Galicia have disappeared, and the studies that say they're also investing in areas that in some cases are becoming obsolete and there is no redirection of that. What we propose to you in our amendments is that at least we have a strategy in that sense that places Galicia in an important area. Because innovation has to be important for the basic productive sectors, for the sectors that are at a more mature moment, but also to position ourselves in new niches of employment that position Galicia in some area, because its model is to destroy what there was and not really do anything to put Galicia in another direction. Therefore, Counselor, we are also concerned about this. Then it seemed very bad that I had made mention of something that said their budgets, and their budgets say that the funds spent on high office and delegates increase by 5.4%. That spending on possible cabinet staff increases by 5.7%. And that the money that the members of the board of directors and the president will receive in the form of salaries will increase, that of the councillors at 7% and that of the president of the board at 7.5%. Yeah, I don't think this measure is appropriate right now, and I'm going to explain why. Because the wages of workers and workers in this country have fallen in an alarming way during this economic crisis, and we have a social situation that at least to me, Counselor, seems very, very worrying. The wages of workers and workers this year are not going to rise by 7%, are they? And you, if they'd come up, you'd be against it. However, for the members of the Board of Trustees, you think that this increase is rational. He defended that same measure for the workers and for us it would be nice if he had applied to the board of directors, but that's not what his government does. And if you think it's wrong, I'm sorry, Counsellor, but it's just that we're not here representing you to get out of these quiet and relaxed sessions, but to talk about what reality, social policy, what the consequences of what's happening right now in our country. Look, we don't have any problem with the debt. Tell us what we've done wrong. Tell us what's wrong with the data. Because you disqualify us but you're not able to tell us whether the data we give is true or not. The reality is that his government leaves a Galician more indebted. And also that right now that we have some more resources, they don't use all those resources as well as we have for a better end to health, education, to reverse all those cuts that have occurred. An important part of you are using it to pay more debt at a time when it wasn't necessary, Counsellor, and you could use those resources to improve health care, education, public services or dependency care. If he doesn't, it's his responsibility. And by the way, I suppose you'll agree with me that the good behavior in the relationship of interest does not have to do with the Council of Galicia as well as with the evolution of the financial markets of this kind, the price of money. It's just, if not, we're already in that they're no longer semi-dives, you've become total gods. And I'm going to finish, because I only have a minute left, with a question, or two questions, which I think are important. First, we have all the legitimacy to criticize the funding system that you supported, because with your little mouth you have to recognize it was a disaster. If in 2009 Junta had planted itself and defended Galicia's interests, we would be in a better position today, but that's not what they did. And at this moment it's not welcome, Counselor, that the House groups don't know what you're going to go to Madrid tomorrow. It is not, Counselor, that the press has data that is not brought to this Parliament, because it shows how far you do not want to go with a Parliament behind you, but you have a position and you want us to praise you, and we are not here to praise the repetition of a financing model that is a fiasco for Galicia. Look, the state is cashing in our country, and we're saying that it's not a receipt that the money we have from the Greeks and the Greeks, instead of being used to improve our public services, to create jobs, to clean up our laughs, if they're using for other kinds of things, such as, for example, more military spending. We want to change that situation, and a government with country ambition would be willing to give that debate. Or do you think the Basques and the Navarres were wrong with an economic concert? It was very good for them! It is, of course, impressive that Mr. Feijóo goes to Catalonia, as it was a very short time ago, to defend that it is reasonable for Catalans to set up an economic concert, and here he demonizes us for defending an alternative that only he does is to equip us with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u30	...autonomy and financial capacity. Mr. Puy is not here, if I hadn't told him that there are many alternatives that can be defended, and that we are going to defend in the next debate, that he was a little upset about the moment we are. In any case, our amendments are not to stop Galicia, they are to make it work, they are to give it a better future, because we are convinced and convinced that Galicia is a country that has enormous opportunities and potentials, and that what has failed during this time was not the people, it was the Government, Counsellor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u32	Good morning again. I'm going to start almost where the BNG spokesperson finished, speaking briefly of the model of self-financing. We'll have a chance to discuss more in the next plenary session, as soon as possible, Counselor. In any case, you have made quite a few references to what was important to people -- I share that -- and not to the territories, but today we read in the economic press that, at last, it seems that the People's Party's proposal for reform of that model means the introduction of the principle of ordinality, and that means that it's the territories that matter, and that we're going to have an aggregate vision justly stuck to the territories and not to the people, and that's a lot of concern to us. But we're going to have a chance to talk, I say, in the next plenary session. In any case, in the financing model, what surprises me, just like the debt, is that it's not included in the budget document in any way. I imagine that additional tenth, which is about 60 million, is going to be used, that margin of indebtedness, and so we're going to have 60 million more spending during 2017. And I also imagine that you have an estimate of what can be the results of the negotiation of the financing model. In that bad year 2009, a critical year for the whole world economic system, not only for Spain, Galicia and Europe, but for the world economic system, there was also a negotiation. As you know, negotiations were closed at the end of the year, but with effect from 1 January, which meant a lot of additional resources for the Autonomous Community. It was spaced in 2009, in 2010, and so on, but also in 2009. It's possible, it should be so, this year something like this happens. Are these additional resources able to discuss them in this Parliament, or do we actually find that much of the margin of manoeuvre that the Government of the Union will have is not part of the content of the budget document and therefore it is quite distorted? That's an important concern. You spoke of rigour; I have to say that I was very surprised by some parts of the budget document. Some parts seem to me to have a level of rigour, even at the level of information, very good; the economic and financial report, the report on tax benefits. But I also have to tell you with equal roundness that there are other parts, such as the memory itself, that we could rule out it completely and nothing happened. And there are other parts of the document that have a level of error or misinformation not by hiding, but because it's such a complexity that it's very hard to know what government commitments will really be. For example, as far as the entire staff attachment is concerned, where is the remaining line, which reduces the level of commitments in the staff attachment, because then you bring the overall figures, and where does all this come from? That's millions of euros when you add the set! Of course, that significantly reduces the quality of the budget document. That is not good for debate, it is not good for democratic quality, as it is not — even though it is another debate — to regain the law of accompaniment and modify twenty-one laws. Third subject. I propose that if I do so, instead of arguing about the finger, we discuss the moon. I mean, I'm concerned about the economic effects of the measures you say, I'm concerned about the economic effects. Sure, you're going out with my finger. No, but I don't know what instrument. All right, but we discussed the results of those measures. I'm taking documents from which I don't have to doubt, and I see that in terms, for example, of number of companies, there is a fall between 2008 and 2016 of five thousand and peak companies. You didn't talk about it. At R & D costs, I see the percentage of GDP in 2008 or 1.04%; 2015 and 0.89%. And a fall of nearly 100,000, I see here – I don't know if it's a million – it should be about 100 million euros, at R & D costs, of absolute fall on GDP. I see that in terms of the labour market in 2008, there were 1,200,000 employees, and now there are 1,017,000. Sorry, 2015, end of 2015, 1,017.000. Now we're a little better, but there's still a difference of nearly 158,000 employees. So we are seeing the results, we are discussing the effectiveness of the measures under way. The tax benefits Mr. Puy said. Home!, as you well know, in successions there were already very high exemptions, for example about habitual living, up to a limit, and that's the main wealth that most families have. So when the exemptions are extended, they're not making a social policy, they're expanding the exemptions for those who have more than a usual housing. So in terms of progressiveity this doesn't look much like it. But I don't argue with that. As you will see, in our proposals we don't talk about this, among other reasons, because this is a very recent measure and we believe that in tax matters we have to give some time to things. But you will also understand that I am concerned whether or not this has any effect on the wealth of families, which is important — in electoral terms, above all, it is very important — but on economic growth, job creation, new businesses. Those people who get an important tax benefit, will they invest more? Did they spend on R+D? Will you take advantage of it to modernize your companies? If that's the case, welcome! What isn't it? Let's think about these things differently. Because I think it's about putting tax instruments, taxation, also at the service of employment growth, and finally at the service of a certain social balance. I've already told you before, I know that in terms of comparison to the level of poverty, the level of inequality in Galicia is not too high in relation to other autonomous communities, but it's increasing, as it is increasing worldwide; for reasons that certainly have to do with openness to international trade, with the introduction of new technologies, but also with some adjustment of the basic social promotion mechanisms for the effects of the crisis on public finances in recent years. And so let's consider this to be more effective, to be more efficient. And that's what we should have the ability to discuss. Let's see, effects on economic growth. Spain equal to 100, apparent productivity of work. Year 2008, Galicia manufacturing industry, 83.8; year 2015, 74% on Spain 100. Of course, when I see this, I say: here something is failing in industrial promotion policy. When at this time, despite the difficulty in creating jobs, just in industry, we're losing productivity in relation to the Spanish average; in relation to the Spanish average, I'm not talking about Germany, the Spanish average. Something's happening. We should review some mechanisms of industrial policy; we don't have to change everything, but we should check things that don't work. And that's what I see they don't do in the budget. That's why, at last, I think it would be necessary to return it. I also tell them that as I know that they will not accept this proposal and that they will do everything possible to get this out of the way — and it is not only legitimate but also explicable, very explainable in political terms — they will take up part of our amendments below. Because I think they could substantially improve Galicia's operation in the next few days. Finally, in relation to the macroeconomic framework. You clearly present a stage of slowing down in growth. If we're talking about growth rates for 2016 of the three and peak percent and after 2.5, there's a slowdown. And besides more recent estimates such as that of the BBVA Foundation — which we say we can accept as a reference — they even speak of a lower rate of growth and a much lower rate of job creation: two and a percent peak in Spain, 1% in Galicia. Of course, if we consider how the Government does in its document that the occupancy rate is in the year 2020 of 70%, and it turns out that we are having difficulty creating 10,000 jobs in Galicia, 10,000 jobs in one year give us enough of the lowest estimate the president has made in the investment debate, because that leads us to a minimum job creation of 20,000 a year. So there's a problem here. So you think about this and make an effort to improve the budget because if you don't, of course, you won't have our support at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u33	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We feel very much that reality bothers Mr. Counselor's recreation and that he comes here to disturb reality with figures, with situations, with things that he doesn't like and which, therefore, make us remove from this situation of placidity to a situation of discomfort. Of course, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea does not like the data that we bring here and that we have to show you that the path is not that. We want more than we don't have to do that! But the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, when referring to extreme poverty, indicate that in the last year, the data was known on December 26, 2016 — I mentioned the date of the report’s knowledge — I am talking about an increase above one point in extreme poverty paintings. And it's not in relation to 2009, because there's some question about comparisons in the period before you, it's in relation to the year 2014, with respect to 2015, which is the last year of what data exists right now. So we don't base ourselves either on very previous figures or on making up figures, that's the official figures, that we're aware of here and that we think that you should take into account to draw up the budgets, so that they have something to do with the reality they want: either inciting, or squirting, or actually describing what we don't know very well. If they want to have an impact on reality, they will have to do something that can effectively counter this situation. We don't think they're doing that. Regarding unemployment and immigration that we report, we used official data, official data from the EPA. A combined data that may also be very interesting to you and that you would like to use for the purpose of establishing a budget that could be consistent with the situation we live in: there are in the frame between 2007 and 2016 cumulatively 257,000 workers and workers less in Galicia under 35 years of age. Well, see where that youth goes, if there's no young people anymore, whether it's grown up or whether they've emigrated, see, no, nothing happens. And you are installed in the comfort of saying that, as we left behind the crisis here, all the problems have passed. No, a lot of people haven't gone through those problems, and we want to report it, and we want to tell them that it's much more important the problem you're presenting here. Well, more than you say here, it doesn't mean it's not, it just means it's not like you're painting it. With regard to these situations of particular need and situations where priority needs to be given to the restoration of basic social rights, I have referred here to two specific issues that you have not addressed: the first one in relation to the electric ticket and the second one in relation to the rental problem. With regard to the electric ticket — we insist — today's DOG, January 16, 2017, they go from the budget of the previous year of €2,100,000 to this year EUR 793,000. Why? Justify, explain that there are no longer any objective situations of need that give rise to this type of line of help and explain that just those you budget are enough. You know what's going on? What happens is that they set up access requirements, bureaucratic conditions so high, that people who are in the target range of need end up not having access to them, either because they don't know, either because they don't have power, either because they don't have a network or there's an adequate network of social services that can allow people who are in objective terms of need to access them, or because they can be detected to access these aids. So what you have to do is change the order to access these population layers more easily and not reduce the budget game by keeping the requirements. They give you more ease and you'll see how people access those aids. And this is also about the rent program. Is it serious to think that with 47,000 euros you can meet the housing needs of young people or families who have more needs in relation to the satisfaction of the right to a decent housing? Is it serious? I mean, you spend more on propaganda than on your own program. Let's change this because it's changing the perception that people will have, too, of what you think about reality. Second question in relation to debt. We say it, we denounce it and we insist again: the payment of the debt is prioritized in the construction of the budget, using almost 18% for the payment of the debt. It's function 9, "Public Debt." What's wrong? Yes, of course, historical evolution must be seen because you've been ruling for several years. So also when they tell us that with regard to the demographic decline that nothing can be done from one year to another that can be seen, how many budgets have you managed consecutively? Home!, for in the demographic plane it could already have some incidence or at least sit the bases to tell us what the incidence might be at that time. But in relation to the specific case of public debt, then we have specific data where we can also account for them. Function 9, "Public Debt", which increased from 393 million euros in 2009 to 1,822 million euros in 2017. That is, the debt service has multiplied by 3.5 times, which is equivalent to 1,429 million euros more now than in 2009. It could be structured otherwise, but no, you opt for this in view of the provision of other services of an essential nature. We understand that this is not, that it can't be like this, that it shouldn't be, and that's why we've come here to denounce it. Of course, that's why we don't agree, that's why we're his alternative; the time has come for us to be government. As far as funding is concerned. Look, they now make an invitation that is often a toast to the sun, it's a way of speaking that we really think it doesn't work. We will see whether it is effective on the situation or not, whether it is possible to achieve a country's stance on the proposal of the Autonomic Financing Scheme. We for a new autonomous financing system, where Galicia and its social majority gain quality of life and rights, yes, otherwise not. We still don't know what the assumptions are based on your country position in order to achieve that. So, as they were dissatisfied with the previous model, we'll have to look for a different model. In our model, of course, even now without making big bills beyond the basics, than we have been reporting all these months, we need to be able to meet the basics for our country at the moment an increase of EUR 3,000 million in funding. Yeah, uh, sure. That's what we've lost in social investment since 2009 too, since you're managing budgets; 25% of the reduction in social spending or "social investment" as we prefer to call it ourselves. Because we don't think that people's bet is spent but investment, investment that reverts to the economic level, that goes back to the working level, that obviously reverts to the quality of life, that's what we're interested in. And that's where we could meet. The current status quo which establishes the current financing system consolidates Galicia's decline, and some of the factors you have exposed here do nothing but consolidate this palliative situation. We need to take into account the dispersion of the population and aging. Yeah, all right, why? To finance the status quo, the current situation. You with that, even in the best of cases -- we know that with the current system we're at 104 percent in relation to the adjusted population ratio -- the most we can aspire to is to better address that problem, but the palial one, not to intervene to solve it. And we need a financing system that allows us to have resources, that allows us to make a different economic policy, that allows us to reverse this situation. Political autonomy has to have an economic dimension that enables us to make a different planning in the economic field, which is not simply an administrative management of competences with regard to its resources, so that we can meet certain needs that we have. We need to be able to make a different economic policy in an active way that enables us to reverse that situation. If the problem is the demographic decline or if the symptom is the demographic decline, what we have to be able to influence the causes that change this situation; we need to reverse that situation. If there's a problem of rural depopulation, we'll have to be able to influence the causes that gave rise to that, and not just conform to the fact that the ageing and dispersed population in an increasingly impoverished rural has a sweet damping of its existence. That's not good for us. So the status quo system for us is not acceptable. We therefore want a different economic model that reverses this situation, a system that is based on greater fiscal sovereignty, financial adequacy, resource adequacy, and based on cooperation rather than competitiveness, not competition between autonomous communities; a system based on a different concept of solidarity. What's not worth to us is that we have economic conditions here, working conditions, living conditions that drove our youth to Madrid or elsewhere in the state, and then they tell us their stories and make us like solidarity this human decapitalization of our country. We don't want that model; that minute model in which then the status quo only gives place as solidarity to which we are compensated for the loss of the people who leave us. We want not to lose those people. We therefore want an economic system and, therefore, a financing system that can reverse that situation and that it does effectively and that it also seeks not to compete but to cooperate between autonomous communities. We defend a federal system of eighteen equal conditions that also ensure the increase in income, between eighteen equal, between the state and the communities, between the same, in which the conditions of solidarity based on cooperation are sought, based on the need for a minimum increase in income. Because we, unlike you, don't think the whole solution here is the reduction in expenditure. In order to provide services of an essential nature, we have to spend and we need to enter. And that's necessary to speak, and that's necessary to remember. We cannot do dumping between autonomous communities, fiscal dumping or other style, but we need to arrive at cooperation mechanisms that allow us all to have an acceptable level of income in order to realize another economic policy and provide social services otherwise in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u35	Thank you, Mr. Villares. To close the debate, the councillor of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u36	Thank you again, President. Some questions before proceeding in a more formal way to my intervention at this time in the morning. I'm sorry, please, if some people can be attacked by the unfortunate tone of my speeches, I'm very vehemently in my exhibition, because I try to believe very much what I say, but by no means... go ahead of the same legitimacy as I presume to me and our assumptions for any of the people who are here. Therefore, truly, with all humility, but at the same time with all the expositive vehemence that characterizes me, I will continue to defend what I believe. Of course, we cannot deny statistical reality. And I think it's more than talking about slaps in the face of many people, the important thing is to realize that, in thinking about relative terms, we always say that recovery has to be inclusive. We were the first people two years ago to use that term, which today has repeated very, very much, very much! Too bad some concepts are getting clearer. But at the same time it has to be universal, and that cannot be achieved within a one-year horizon, it has to go for a walk, as long as it's going to recover economic growth, which is perfectly settled from my perspective. Everything's better, everything's better. But on the other hand, he's going to move the most important, which is more and better employment. But it's just that it's happening. Can we be convinced of the intensity of how growth is moving into employment and the best employment? Not at all. Does this administration have to follow up, as it has always done, and perfect certain instruments of all the policies that we are implementing to realize whether the objectives we want are being achieved? We always did, but I think the situation we have right now, and already with the default roadmap of the Strategic Plan... also some groups didn't really like strategic plans a year ago, maybe because they're being ruled, and today's situation is relatively different. Others did participate in a much more proactive way when we were here in Parliament talking about these issues. And, of course, as such an instrument and guide up to 2020, both in terms of growth and employment, as well as in terms of inclusion policies, we will continue to improve it. Because the worst thing that can happen to any strategic plan is that it stays hanging from the shelves and we don't analyze how the correct evaluation is going on than we're doing. But they're still persisting, in my understanding, in a mistake, and this already worries me, because there must be something like ten times. Or we're telling ourselves very badly -- and I'm first of all -- or something fails when they keep worrying about debt and they're connecting two issues that are totally different. What is debt refinancing — because there's debt that's over — is changing from place to place, and that's why the size of the last year and the increase in this one. Why? Because there's more debt winnings. But the new debt in essence, which is where to measure, only — only not enough — is 0.5% of the total. That's 280 million, plus 85 million euros that — whether or not — are from the famous 600 and 1,600 that in the government of the Bipartite, because I'm not, in a wise way, capable of finding out what the income estimate was. That's why we get to the situation that, out of the 10,500 million euros we have right now, it turns out that almost 1 billion are also from the "debche, i owe" of the two-party government. And besides, in the future, as we know the scope of public debt, in the future: 0.5 for the next year, 0.3 for the next year, 0.1 rounding, we'll be talking about about some five and something, we won't get to 600 million euros, until we're in real fiscal consolidation. But again, of those 500 that can be found in this government in an anti-cyclical action, it turns out that there are still 1,300 million euros to be charged, practically, of the Bipartisan Government. So let's not go along with these kinds of issues, we know what the principle of integrity is that they collect all the operations that are in the budget of what is net debt. By the way, by the way, Mr spokesperson for the Tides of Podemos—it is that it is also indicative of something, man!—that we are dealing with the debt we have at these times, and those famous victories that occur this year that must be refinanced, and the fall in chapter III, of interest, what comes to tell us is that it was a correct act by our part in times of crisis, always maintaining the financial autonomy of this government and therefore of all the Greeks, prestigious number one for the autonomous community. It turns out that at present we are the ones who, having fulfilled all these years with the parameters of fiscal consolidation, can now be able to finance 0% — only the Canary Community and the Community of Galicia, 0%. That's why interests are lowered, by correct decisions at a given time, with a volume of debt that is perfectly flattened and begins to descend in terms of ratio/lib. Mrs Pontón continues to fear the issue of high office, of wage increases. Nothing, again. I know that when you rule this is due, it's normal and usual, so with certain grace it turns out that these 7,000 euros, when you refer to the president of the throne, of Vice President Quintana. I didn't expect anything less from his lordship. I'm not talking about President Touriño anymore. Again, I repeat, the situation we have throughout public employment is the first of January 2012. Check it out, please, and let it be no different from the measuring stick when you rule. Although the most important in the question of staff is global recovery for 100,000 public employees, which is being produced in a certain way, of course. On the other hand, Mr. Leicega, I had already told you earlier that, indeed, there are things in the budget document that are all right, others that are not well, everything and well nobody does. We're looking for it, and we're gradually improving more and more a document that's very complicated, very complex. We always study the effects of our measures, and we will perfect our instruments, especially in the field of capital expenditure, so that we can have a prior assessment of what we are doing. I think that gradually the situation of what is making as such a policy budget document that we have implemented over the past eight years has varied a great deal and for good. And you were referring to the BBVA macroeconomic framework. There are other schools too. By the way, BBVA recently, as far as Galicia is concerned, lacks enough, enough. But there's always BBVA here. It's not a matter of right or wrong. In essence, in terms of prospectiveness, there are seven or eight institutes that are telling us that the thing is going well, the situation is beginning to change. In the third trimester of last year, 2016, it's when there's a certain breakthrough in the Greek economy with regard to the Spanish average. Let's hope we keep it going. And it's not so much a competition as continuing to grow above or around 2.5, that this actually allows us to move that growth to employment, to more and better jobs, which remains, and to an increasingly inclusive job. So that's our goal and that's what we really dedicate to. I think Mr. Villares was talking about debt. I'll explain it one more time. What happens is it gives me the impression that your group doesn't want to hear some questions. I think it's very simple, but it's wrong to be wrong, we'll still be there. We're closing now. I want, first of all, to express my gratitude for the speeches — and to apologize for what I sometimes use — in spite of everything. I believe that it is learned, indeed, that with all honesty I tell the voices of the parliamentary groups. Even though they certainly do not agree with many of the things that have been moved here. This is one of the most important debates every year, because the most important thing is that, in the end, what we are doing is contrasting management models and countering initiatives and ideas that contribute, at least, to an exchange of views that for me — I really tell you — is enriching. But I reiterate that this debate is taking place at a very important time. It is the first of the beginning of this legislation and I believe that with the work of all groups we must be able to consolidate that economic recovery and the creation of quality employment. Three very simple words: creation, employment and quality. That is the fundamental question. I know perfectly well that opposition groups would change a lot of things from this budget, and it's perfectly legitimate, but I'm also convinced that there are many meeting points, and that we have priority issues such as self-financing, where we have to be able to consent to a country stance, and I don't turn anyone away. In this way, I think with a Galician posture we'll have more strength. In addition, since the German Government we have to be consistent and develop budgets on the electoral agenda, which, in fact, has been immensely supported in the polls by the Greeks and the Greeks. That's why we have to refuse the return of accounts that we consider to be those that at this time need Galicia to take another step in this way of improving our economy, employment and public services. Despite the discrepancies, we are faced with the challenge of adding more and more Greek to economic recovery every day than more Greek and Greek, who have had to suffer much from the great economic crisis in recent years, if they also benefit now, and directly, from the positive effects of this improvement on economic conditions. Since the Government we are convinced that this budget is a tool that will help the Greeks to live a little better. We have more resources — expansive budgets — we have more experience, from rigor and professionalism, and we know how to target them to the most priority. Because if something has taught us the crisis is not to make mistakes in the past. After six very hard years and great sacrifices, we took two expansion budgets that, as I said, allow us to have in every and every one of the most resource functions to dynamize the economy and protect those who need it most. The bases of recovery are already becoming more and more solid, and we have a fortress: we continue to be Spain's more stable community, a solvent autonomy, which grows at the highest rate since before the crisis and creates jobs at a rate of 20,000 new jobs a year. Despite this good evolution, the Government is still standing on the ground, and we are aware that the problems have not ended. But also, having this clear, it would be unrealistic not to recognize that this year we will already link four consecutive economic exercises into growth, and that we have been creating jobs since there are more than three. That's why we think it's time to continue on this path, to continue to implement our priorities, as set out in the Strategic Plan, to consolidate this model of healthy growth, a sustained growth that generates increasing incomes, which enables us to complete fiscal consolidation, eliminating the public deficit, and thereby disengage ourselves from the use of indebtedness, to reach the end of this decade in condition to have a unemployment rate around 10%, after having exceeded 22% in the worst times of economic crisis. The budgets we are debating are one more step in this path for several reasons: because they allow us to maintain growth around 2.5 % — by the way, our estimates, which we do every week, so they confirm it, but it is also true that the international economic situation presents certain features of insecurity; as it is also true that the evolution of the Spanish economy, our main customer, remains in symptoms of vitality which keep us going to keep the expected increase in these terms; because these budgets will contribute, as in a machacona way I repeat and that it is our priority, that another 20,000 Greeks and Greeks find employment, because they will reinforce investment, we are Spain's first community in investment to help dynamize our economy; because they consolidate the biggest fiscal downturn in Galicia's history and because they protect those who go through more difficulties, fighting inequality and promoting equal opportunities. There will be a lot to work to achieve these challenges of this legislation, but I'm sure, from each other's legitimate ideological position, working together will be possible. The Greeks and the Greeks ask us, more than ever, unity to successfully meet their needs, and it is the responsibility of each of us to be up to the citizens. I wish the parliamentary groups a good job in handling these budgets, and I hope they can be approved as soon as possible in order to be executed as soon as possible by this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u37	Thank you, Counselor. Vote for Group I amendments Voting of amendments to the total demand for the global refund of budgets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u38	At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. We begin by voting, firstly, on amendments to the whole which call for the global return of budgets. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # 2478), by G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u39	We are now voting on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # 2518), G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u40	We voted for the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the whole which calls for the global return of budgets number 1 (Doc. # 2534), G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of amendments to the total demand for the refund of budget items from sections or expenditure managers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u41	We are now voting on amendments to the budget refunds for sections or expenditure managers. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 12 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, returning budgets from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u42	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 11 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, returning the budgets of the sections or of the expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u43	Finally, we are voting on amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 31 of the G.P. of In Marea, returning budgets from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u44	We suspended the session until 6:00. Good afternoon. [[The session is suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.]] Debates and votes on amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u45	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the debate and the vote on amendments that modify the overall budget content or transfer appropriations between sections; in particular, these two paragraphs. First of all, we have the floor of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Noa Presas, for a time of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u46	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all, to those few and few who are interested in this deep debate. I wanted to begin my intervention precisely by indicating that for the trial of the Nationalist Block in Galicia the debate we are facing is more than just a debate of numbers, or just numbers. We understand that it is a much deeper debate and that it is actually the most important debate that can be faced from any institution, because it is precisely the most powerful tool they have for two minimal objectives, which, from the BNG, we understand that it is those that we should share all the political forces that we are represented here: On the one hand, I want to change the material living conditions of most of the Greeks and gales, who are going through it frankly wrong right now and who are looking at other points in the state or other points in the world to find a way out. Change them precisely to have a decent right to life, both here and those who have already had to leave. And on the other hand, we also use these budgets to decide that we want a different future as a people, to bet on a different future, which is invested in modernizing our productive sectors and taking advantage of our potential to initiate profound changes that guarantee a sustainable future of growth. However, as my spokesperson on tomorrow's agenda has synthesized, these budgets do not fit the demands of this historic moment, which, as we say, is very relevant to us. They lack country ambition and are confined to continuity that consolidates cutting policy and does not introduce the slightest substantial change. So, in our judgment, it's no use to reactivate the economy, or to secure basic services, or to equal a deeply fragmented society, in which the least responsibility for the crisis is the one who pays the most. A crisis, on the other hand, which goes beyond the set and economics, which is structural and is surrounded by a political and institutional crisis, a state and ultra-centralist framework that disrupts the financing of our services. However, despite the hostility of the context, despite the encorsement of the debate and the repeated possibility that this humble opposition will achieve this afternoon to move a single euro from the budgets of the absolute and absolutist majority of the People's Party, despite all this, with a proactive spirit we present these amendments to demonstrate that it is possible, that there is an alternative and that it is possible to bet on a model change mobilizing over 908 million for that purpose. I'll start by pointing out that we question not only expenditure policy through these amendments but also income policy. We have presented for this a series of proposals to increase them, thus making changes that contrast with the model of the People's Party Government, which in these budgets owes this slight increase virtually to debt and which, in addition, keeps the tax burden regressive that has been characterizing it in recent years. For us the current tax model, the current tax system, is not contributing to correcting economic inequalities and therefore does not fulfil that theoretical function of redistribution of wealth. This would have to be part of a broader and deeper debate, but still, within the limited autonomy that allows us to this skilful autonomic framework, we have a certain capacity for action that we propose, indeed, to squeeze out as much as possible. In this sense, we have several proposals aimed at achieving greater progress: As for the Italian IRPF plot, we propose a new type to apply to those incomes above EUR 120,000, with a rise to 25.5%, which would allow us to get around EUR 23 million more. On the other hand, we continue to insist that it is possible to improve progress towards wealth tax, so we intend to reduce the minimum exemption and modify the rate of those higher to get around 37 million. We also propose, as last year, to suppress these changes, in our view of regressions, that the People's Party has implemented around the tax of successions and prayers, and thus recover about 45 million euros, which we are losing to safeguard our public services. We understand that in this context of social emergency it is not to be welcomed to do this; it is a luxury that our people cannot afford. Finally, there is a debate that we will not give up. We propose, again, the creation of that tax — which so little likes the People's Party — on large commercial areas, to recover around 30 million and which exacerbates the economic, social and environmental tax that causes these areas. Then, in the replica, we'll discuss how the laws in our world have to evolve or not. The following block of amendments represents, through several proposals for expenditure, an alternative political, economic and social model and defines the priorities of nationalism in this context of social and national emergency. So it spins around four strategies: on one side, prioritize social spending; shielding, on the other hand, public services; on the other hand, developing a productive model of the future that has as a boost to R & D+i; and, finally, bet on a Galician with a series of values that, at our trial, the People's Party has abandoned, like love for the earth and love for language, since Mr. Martínez told us in the morning that he was asking us to propose more closely. And finally, we'll make a specific mention of what we understand must be a matter that is at the head of the order of priorities, such as the fight against violence against the masquerade. We understand that in this context it is essential — as I said — to give priority to social spending in a powerful way. So since the BNG, we have proposed an increase in social spending by over 16 million, so that around two basic pillars, which would be a social security income and a social emergency plan, we are the ones, as a society, as a people, to meet the emergencies that exist right now, while we are not able to plan a more sustainable model that corrects those emergencies in the long and medium term. We understand that social justice must be a priority and that priorities are set. And in order to achieve it, it is also absolutely essential that a public service blockage strategy, such as health and education, should be used. Even though the nationalists understand, ultimately, that to achieve this it is essential to have more sovereignty to collect and decide where our taxes are going, that is to say, bet ultimately by another financing model, yet, we understand that within the limited autonomic corset it is possible to do something, that it is possible to go beyond what is going, that, in short, it has been eight years back. We want to reverse that situation. That's why we bring different proposals to recover health. We propose, therefore, a recovery strategy for fully public management of what we know as "health infrastructure built by public-private systems", namely infrastructure such as Vigo hospital, which comes to us all and heads, through up to 115 million. We also propose to devote more than 100 million to reducing waiting lists -- a very serious problem that is paying our society and that has consequences for its quality and even life expectancy. We also propose 60 million to shield primary care and 54 million to restore the health personnel that have been progressively cutting the People's Party. Another basic joke is teaching. That's why we also have proposals to restore all those staff cut in more than 55 million, to guarantee universal access to it, armoring bags, shielding alternatives to school dining and shielding alternatives to the freeness of textbooks by the loan system. He indicated before, thirdly, that our amendments bet on reorienting a productive model needed to modernize and bet on the impulse bench that has to suppose R+D+i in our country. We do it out of responsibility and because we are convinced that without investment and without little reorientation we have to do, that we are mortgageting our future. So, from confidence in our people, their capacities and their potential, we promote amendments that mobilize more than 100 million to research-related programs for both industry and rural and maritime environments. More than 100 million for different research programs, compared to the 4.7 million proposed by the People's Party. We accompany, in addition, 4 million to the Galego Institute of Credit, in order to favour, in this way, the financing of businesses and small and small entrepreneurs in an immediate way, contributing to the revitalization of the economy and marking our commitment by financial instruments, public and Greek, which can go on finding the way to a future Greek public bank. We also include different amendments to the most vulnerable sectors and give the People's Party a new opportunity. An opportunity to rectify and get out of this Return Plan, endowed with over 100 million, to show us that they do care about the people who have left and the people who are thinking about leaving. Finally, we bet on a Galician growing up with policies that give priority to bulwarks that the People's Party has forgotten. That's why we want policies of love for the earth, because we're not going to give up on the essential battles that Ana Pontón synthesized in the morning against climate change. Therefore, elements such as stream sanitation or how the bet would be and equipped with composting are not lacking in this battery of amendments. Nor is love policy for language and culture lacking, for that heritage of all Greeks and Greeks, for which we will mobilise more than a million euros to demonstrate that we want power and that it is possible to prioritize these areas. To end, from my parliamentary group, we wanted to make a specific mention of the need to place women's rights and the fight against violence as a struggle to update, rethink and, above all, equip, with resources. Look, the achievements of feminism within the framework of the system can't lead us to lose sight of the strategic goal of overcoming patriarchy and overcoming all forms of violence perpetrated against us by merely being women. And for that, you have to be ambitious and ambitious, you have to go further and take a quantitative and qualitative leap in politics against masculine violence, jumping to your budget to over 95 million. Today, government members have the opportunity to surprise us, to do something more than disqualify the opposition's proposals, something more than mention the terrorist governments past or present, municipal or national; something different. I am going to save the People's Party Government work by now, and I will remind the People's Party government itself — so that they won't waste time answering us — that they do have a lot of Members and Members; nothing happens. But I'm going to make another offer, which is that they dare, please, that the People's Party and dialogue be no more osimoron than this afternoon's debate and that they surprise us a little bit. There are many, many more than us, nothing happens, but they accept, within the opposition of all the amendments presented by the BNG, In Marea, the PSOE, accept the proportional part. I'm even making that proposal to them already. We're generous and say, okay. They'll remind us how much you've gathered in the elections, but then accept, if they're so dialogueative, the proportional part of these amendments. In short, the proposal here summarised by my parliamentary group implies representation that an alternative model is possible. A model that, from confidence in our country, can place priorities in the order they deserve and be able to prioritize social spending, to effectively shield public services and not turn them into a progressive anecdotal, falling into the trap of the system, which aims to make us believe that we lived above the possibilities and that those rights won were somewhat temporary. Make a bet for developing that Galician values where we'll recover environmental care, care of our language and where fighting against macho violence is an absolute priority. That is why we have different proposals that you will surely refuse and underestimate, but of course there is a question that they cannot avoid, that in democracy we will continue to give all this kind of debate and to put on the debate talk the focus on issues that for the BNG are absolutely essential and that, unfortunately, in their budget they have no room nor, of course, a sufficient budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, I'll start exactly where you're finished. This morning you were talking about that we were not discussing here but management models. Look, no, this isn't Harvard Business School, this is a Parliament. What we are debating here is political models of interpretation of reality and the construction of reality in which citizens live. It's a small conceptual problem that I think should be clear, because sometimes it's very common for right-wing politicians to put on the suit or baton of technocrats and, through that technocracy, to defend specific interests. So we don't debate management models -- or at least the Socialist Party, and I'm sure the rest of the opposition groups don't debate management models -- we debate ideological models. And, of course, that is what we have to debate, because this is a Parliament made up of elected Members, people who are presented to elections in different political formations and who citizens vote. I think it's that simple. I want to start talking about politics, and I started 78 years ago. 78 years ago there were 100,000 left-wing Spaniards piled on a beach in southern France, in Algeria, who were practically starving and cold. Today, unfortunately, 78 years later, hundreds of thousands of non-Spanish refugees are literally dying cold on certain borders of Europe. And this is also about politics here in Galicia, and this is about exactly the world we are building and the world that builds budgets, Counsellor. Because you come here with a technical approach — it seems to me very well, I don't reject the technical approach at all — but completely concealing the political dimension that has these budgets, which too, I insist, is legitimate that they have it, and in the same way that the BNG spokesman said, I repeat. I know they have 41 Members, most of them absolute, and so you make the budgets. But they also have to understand and know that the rest of the Members have the right to question not the budgets in technical terms, which probably also, but the budgets in political terms, because they reflect a society and a world that is not what we want. [[Applause]] A few weeks ago, an old Jewish professor, Zygmunt Bauman, died, twice fled European totalitarianism throughout his life and spoke of two very relevant things; and of course, listening to some intervention by the People's Party and seeing some political performances, the truth is that more and more people are present. First of all, that liquid modernity, or that of trying to disguise reality so that you don't know exactly what interests you're defending. There's a phrase by Bauman that personally, I don't know if because of professional deformation, I especially like it, and it's when he says that there really exists the invisible hand in the market; and that it's invisible, but it has the owner. And since he owns it, he defends concrete interests. So, I think it's good to come here and tell us stories of collective interest that the only thing they've ever achieved in part -- I'm not going to give a catastrophic speech, but of course I'm not going to hide the reality of what's happening in this country, I'm talking about Galicia, and I'm talking about Spain as well -- it's a speech in which it's absolutely obvious a part of reality. And the part of the obvious reality, Counsellor, is that which leads to economic deregulation; it leads with it the privatising processes; it leads with it the constant precariousness of the labour market; it is the one that ends up constituting what Bauman called "precarious", which is true that at first seemed absolutely revolutionary and radical, but that, certainly, seeing the wages and labor conditions of the new workers in the Western countries, is beginning to be almost assumed even by the conservative groups. And I want to give you a date. In Galicia, in this Galicia which, according to you, goes as well as Spain... I, when you talk about the good that Spain is going to do, recommend the report published today Intermon-Oxfam. I think it's very illustrative of the good this country is doing. By the way, it's the Jesuit parents, it's not the international communist proletarian, huh, Intermon-Oxfam. I told him it would be nice to know exactly what we're talking about. Look, we're talking about temporary contracts of less than a month increasing by 82% in Galicia during the crisis. Data from the state employment public service, they're not data from any subversive international either. And this is, Counselor, what we have to talk about. We have to talk about what society we are in and what society we make these budgets. And we also have to talk about something that I think you've dedicated to, about, two minutes, we have to talk about the international context, both in terms of external demand and in terms of domestic demand. The Brexit, Trump. Ten percent of our exports now go to the United States and the United Kingdom, so something should be said, something should come up. Finally, that optimism that — I think it says it textually — may affect, but as we do not know how, because we are not going to take it very seriously for macroeconomic positions. I understand that, but it certainly was a problem of understanding this Member. And in the same way we're going to have internal demand problems, Counselor, I suppose you know. The IPC is rising — now it's rising — above what wages are rising, which are virtually non-increasing, as you well know. In the case of pensions, we all know the level of increase of what we're talking about, and that means, therefore, a loss of purchasing power and means a fall in domestic demand. So, I understand that it is essential to speak of this macroeconomic context, which — I repeat again — you have not done so. There are urgent things and important things. Sounds like the topic, but I think it's relevant. The important thing for socialists, without any doubt, is inequality, but the real urgency is poverty. And poverty, Counselor, is not solved with Risk and is not solved with patches, is solved with quality employment, with decent wages that allow families to leave poverty for themselves. That's the way it's done, Counselor. [[Applause]] And of course it is not solved by making absolutely inaccessible socio-industrial policies in terms of technology, and then, as funds are not spent, devoting themselves to some things — I'm going to allow Mr. President, I'm sure I can put the political adjective to reduce the impact — indecent, of course, politically. And this is still, Counselor. your world; the world in which you have to make politics. It also manages, it manages, but it's political. Because decisions are not neutral. The decisions of a government councillor, a government minister, are not neutral. They benefit each other, and if they benefit each other, they harm others; because there are no zero-sum games in economics, as you well know. And I've been asking one thing for a few years that I haven't been able to answer, ever since Mr Feijó's rule, and I'm going to do it again. The truth is, I'm inescapable to the disappointment, that part of apostolate I have. Since Mr Feijóo's reign, there are 44,000 more stops — from the first quarter of 2009 to the third quarter of 2016, EPA — and there are 110,000 fewer busy. Where are the remaining 66,000? I know there's a demographic effect, I know that the population pyramid has a certain shape. No, no, don't look at me with that face of intellectual susceptibility that I know something about demography, but that doesn't explain it all. Some kind of demography I know and that doesn't explain everything, it doesn't explain everything! [[Laughter]] And I know that you have a capacity — of course, directly correlated with the number of votes — intellectually enviable, but I repeat again: the 66,000 missing in the labour market does not explain the demographics! It explains the demographics, the discouragement and the airports of Greece and Ryanair towards Glasgow or Manchester. [[Applause]] You can tell what you want here, and especially not me, I don't have children, especially those who have children working in Glasgow and Manchester. [[Applause]] Tell them they used to leave a lot more! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I know it's very good. You know? The right would react most in Galicia, at the end of the 19th century, when the Greek peasants went out for Vigo and for Coruña, absolutely unprotected and illiterate, they said and wrote -- and I also know something about it -- that he was eager for adventure. They said it and they wrote it. And I'm sure you know it well, Counselor, they said it was the rush of adventure. And it wasn't that, eh!, it was hunger. At that time it was hunger. Now it's not hunger, of course, but it's the absolute lack of social and labor expectations for the youth of this country. And either we say it and we recognize it, and we try to put some kind of solutions on it, or we're in an absolutely cursed loop. And I'm still on some quantitative subject, Counselor. It's true that we grew up one tenth more than Spain. Yesterday, a very interesting column came from Professor Lago Peñas – not from Mr Peñas, but from Dr. Lago Peñas – about the discrepancies between INE and IGE data on GDP. But what is true is that the German GDP, in terms of parity and purchasing power, is 12 points below the average of Spain and 29 points below the average of the European Union 28. We're including 23 million inhabitants of Romania, 9 million inhabitants of Bulgaria... finally, countries with which good...!, I understand that in terms of R+D+i we're comparing ourselves, but we shouldn't compare ourselves in terms of economic and social history. So, I hope someone, I don't know if you or the spokesperson or spokesperson of the People's Party, can explain to me where those 66,000 "disappeared" — between quotes. But it's not just the Epa, because I had a commission to hear that it was a methodological problem of the active population survey. It's worth it to the Eurostat, but it looks like the Galician People's Party isn't worth it. It's all right! Registered unemployment and social security membership data for 2016. In the Spanish ensemble, the increase in affiliations was, in view of the fall of registered unemployment, 38% higher; i.e., there were 38% more affiliations than the fall of unemployed. However, Galicia, oh, surprise!, 'it was the only community in which the increase in membership was lower than the drop in unemployment recorded by 23%, almost 1 in 4! They're still missing, Counselor. I keep asking where they are. And you know where they are? They're out of expectations, they're out because wages -- and they're data taken today from the Galego Institute of Statistics page, so I think little suspects -- in 2009 they were 48% of GDP in Galicia, and now they're 44%. Counselor, please, I understand you're giving him the head, but at last it's a bit sterile and frustrating the debate! I have here the weight of the remuneration of the employees of GDP, Galicia, Spain and Europe. In Galicia 44%, in Spain 47.4% and in the European Union 28 or 47.4%. But not only that, but they are also increasing wages in the last year, in 2015, 2.1%; in Spain 3.8% and in Europe 4.6%. And of course, the actual hourly pay, too, is about 15% lower than in the Spanish average. Counsellor, this is the country, unfortunately. Unfortunately, this is the country. And in this country, we believe that there are some things that are essential to do, and there are some fundamental things that we need to do. We need to increase income in a more progressive way. A more progressive tax system is essential in terms of IRPF and in terms of equity. The data you have in your own amendment, so I'm not going into it. And, of course, on the subject of succession taxes and heritage transmissions, the liquidation in the second quarter of 2016 shows clear underestimation, which gives you a margin of manoeuvre to manage. If you want, we call it management. Do you understand? They are, on the other hand, tax on large commercial areas and all kinds of environmental taxes. In fact, I don't care at all that the IAG group pays taxes. I don't care. It's an aviation group, as you know. I don't care at all. He's got some very remarkable benefits and he's paying off on the stock market! And why won't you pay for gas emissions to the atmosphere? What's the reason he doesn't? Does anyone think Iberia or Air Lingus or Vueling will stop flying for that 0.1% environmental tax? Does anyone think so? Yeah? Because, then, in Finland, Helsinki airport would be empty and it has twenty-five million passengers a year. So I understand that someone has to do IAG voicing, but I think there's not too much room. On the other hand, it is also important to fight tax fraud. I think we're always talking about that reinforcement of Atriga — that, of course, nothing to question about the work of professionals — but that kind of infinite journey to almost never think that we have to fight against it. And, of course, with regard to the reduction of tax expenses, I don't know if it's called salary, recovery of purchasing power... — let's call it anyway — it's politically entrepreneurship that the wages of the high government's government charges increase by 7% when the income distribution data are the ones that appear here. They call it wage increase, recovery of purchasing power or x1, I don't care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u50	In any case, absolutely entrepreneurial. There are some ordinary expenses that I think are perfectly indispensable. There is a tendency to an avatar policy of continuous external reports, a sort of virtual reality of intangible investments. I think it's very important to make investment projects, but then there should be investments. And that intangible projects are 30% of the total investment, man!, I'm not an engineer, but it seems a little bit. And, of course, it would be very good if you hadn't done too much research on the impact of your own advertising campaigns.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u51	Mr. Losada, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u52	It's over, Mr. President. And, above all, Counselor, that we are not paid with funds that you have not been able to manage to solve a problem as serious as energy poverty. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor for Mr Villares' Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u54	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We present today, consistent with our morning speech and En Marea's speech in this House, which presents and represents a German national project based on democracy and social justice, its economic correlation. We have already expressed this in the morning regarding our proposal to return the Government's budgets here. And now we will also come to this afternoon with the increase of the non-financial expenditure ceiling as our proposal so that we can carry out a number of measures that are supposed to put in place an alternative model of an economic, social nature. A proposal based on the increase of the expenditure ceiling articulated in two axes: on State resources and on certain tax measures. In relation to the first, the increase in State resources goes through a number of issues which can be broken down. On income from the autonomic financing model and the instruments for territorial rebalancing, we would put them into two different concepts. Firstly, the need for the timing of planning a rigorous estimate of revenue derived from the autonomous financing model, which takes account of the forecasts for economic growth and, therefore, of the taxable bases of the different tax figures, correcting the deviations between forecasts and the actual final collection. Secondly, the increase in resources from the necessary revision and immediate modification of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. With all that we would establish, in this first heading, an additional amount of EUR 300 million. Secondly, the adoption of a package of tax measures that allow an increase of an additional volume of EUR 200 million, which will entail an important improvement in the capacity to recover our basic social rights through the recovery of non-financial costs, significantly in health, education, social services and employment. How do we structure this tax package? Next way. Depending on the principles of equity, redistribution of income and wealth, first of all, with the increase in tax rates, the higher the autonomic rate of the IRPF. It's necessary to ask more of whom you have the most, not the least, or to make equalizations under the whole world, because not everyone has the same possibilities or capacity. Secondly, the maintenance of property tax on a permanent basis, with the rise of the current scale of taxation tax rates. Thirdly, the increase in the type of burden of environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and uses of the water encouraged. This morning the spokesperson of the People's Party was scandalized when he commented on our amendment at this point. We have security there at least that these companies will not relocate and will not take Belesar's encouragement elsewhere. So we know that, as long as they remain profitable and that it is possible to establish the type of recording according to the type of damage that they cause in the middle, this increase is more than justified, as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. There was also a complaint in the morning about the popular voice of two taxes that we read in our amendment that we proposed to create: firstly, the implementation of an autonomous tax on large commercial surfaces and, secondly, the implementation of an autonomous tax on the empty floors of large companies. And then the argument to reject it was that both in one case and in another there was a judicial dispute in other autonomous communities regarding the topic of competition or the form of taxation. And it seemed that this was an innocent and aseptic defense of a certain situation from which it had to wait until it was settled judicially in order to determine something here politically. No, the political decision is to record certain taxable facts that we consider to be manifestations of wealth that must be attended, and secondly to note that you, when you defend the non-implementation of certain taxes, rather than for reasons relating to public interest, do so on grounds of popular interest. And it is that, for example, in relation to the tax of large surfaces, if we can happen several in any of the industrial polygons or around the big cities. Some of them could be Rafael Arias Salgado, president of the Carrefour Group in Spain since 2000 and for years also president of the World Duty Free Group — the old Aldeasa. And, therefore, here, rather than coming to defend the interests of a price that is still to be decided, it seems that they would be defending the interests of the former ministers of the People's Party, which is what we call the turning doors, of which you only realize when there is no remedy left. And yet we have more than one example left in business managers, multinational groups, large areas that you want to protect from this type of tax, with the only excuse and exclusively that you are under judicial review. There are other rules under judicial review and that is why they do not cease to be in force and that is why we do not cease to defend their vigil; not all of an economic, other civil character. Let us put the Galician Civil Law Act on a case-by-case basis, which still hangs in some case from its constitutional resolution, and yet that does not prevent the vigil and usefulness of Galicia's own fundamental rule of civil law. The same is true of the tax on empty apartments by large owners; of course, we don't talk about private individuals, we talk about entities, large flat owners that are empty and that are immobilized, and that what they do is create a feeling, a false expectation that there is no available housing, when it really does exist. And one way to mobilize that housing with respect to these great owners is precisely the establishment of these taxes. What happens is that the same thing has happened again: as there are great friends who are great owners -- we can talk about banks like BBVA, like Youth in relation to Fadesa before, as now with Inver Alvesa, etc. -- because they give the place that here initially becomes an innocent defense of a tax that should not be placed because it is still pending to resolve in the judicial way really what it hides, what it masks, is the intention not to confront that there are certain friends who are protected by this avoidance of new tax figures. Well, we do think there's a manifestation of wealth there. Maintenance of unmoved and unoccupied real estate parks makes it impossible to fulfill the social function of the property and, in particular, effectively limits access to a decent housing, which is also constitutionally guaranteed. And that's why we think that these impossible facts must give rise to what, as facts that involve manifestation of wealth, must be recorded, and in the same sense also the great surfaces. We also wagered by a selective and weighted minority, without affecting the principle of fairness and redistribution, of the current level of tax benefits provided for in the 2017 budgets. We have already denounced that certain linear reductions are unfair because they treat deeply unequal situations in the same way and therefore manifestations of different wealth. We are also committed to strengthening the inspection plan and combating tax fraud, which has already led us from this rostrum to defend the full competences of labour inspection and all the associated competences to achieve not only an improvement in the conditions in the field of labour, but also with tax evasion, with the provision in this case of greater means to set more ambitious targets and collection. With regard to the participation of deposit tax to credit institutions, we believe that the collection estimate should be increased at least to an additional volume of resources reaching EUR 10 million. We also don't understand that if you tell us that the high-pressure beverage tax cannot be made because the Spanish Government is already working on this. Well, what do you do? But while the Spanish Government works, we also work by establishing that tax figure, because we consider that there are taxable facts that need to be recorded, in this case not as a manifestation of wealth, but to accomplish other purposes related to public health. Well, the application of the proposed tax package allows for an increase in the non-financial expenditure ceiling of the same content, as well as the reallocation of public expenditure priorities which results in a number of measures which we bring here, in particular, of what we call social investment, in various areas which I will now comment on in relation to the most significant ones. Firstly, in the field of external cooperation; secondly, in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Let me stop you here. First of all, in relation to the establishment of a Welsh social income. We say this from the very first moment: it is not worth the current formulation that the levels of social integration and inclusion have the Risk. We believe that a more ambitious, broader system is needed, with less narrow channels for the perception of delivery and with regard to itineraries of labour and social inclusion than Risga, which would be produced by a basic income from Greece. Secondly, the construction and improvement of social infrastructure, which are very necessary for basic social benefits and the exercise of basic social rights, especially for our largest: day centres, residences of older people and centres of attention to diversity. Thirdly, the construction of children's care units, from 0 to 3 years old, insulation improvements in housing and energy poverty control plan; and finally, a plan to eradicate energy poverty. Lévi-Strauss spoke, at the end of his works, about cultural diversity, that social development in an advanced society or in modern advanced societies as ours is measured according to the degree of energy available; and not only that, but internally social cohesion was measured according to the difference in energy available between different layers of society. We know that there is still this problem arising from the circumstances that we have seen constantly denounce here every time we go up to the rostrum in relation to energy poverty as one of the manifestations of poverty of people and families, many of them precarious — as Bauman also mentioned in this case — as a result of a crisis that the social majority have not provoked and that it is therefore necessary to resolve through budgets, through public solidarity, which is exercised through the redistribution of income and wealth. Next, a plan to improve public health, whose main features are the following: firstly, the replacement of staff paintings, as an indispensable means for better service delivery; secondly, the so claimed by our part of the plan of mental health; thirdly — and I also stop here a little more — the reversal to the public of Vigo's new hospital. We said it was possible to perform better management, more effective management of health resources through the recovery to the public of sanitary infrastructures and privatized health services. And this is also a budget bet for that management that we understand will be more effective and more efficient. And if you've privatized your own health management in some cases, it's because you've seen yourself unable to manage well. We think it's possible to manage well from the public, so we bet on the ransom and better management. And these budgets show this real commitment to the public by the part that the En Marea group refers to. The emergency plan for job creation and overcoming precariousness is another of the measures we have brought here at the political level and also at the economic level, with 65 new million euros, for an employment programme for long-term unemployed and over 45 years old, ultimately vulnerable collectives and of the most difficult job integration. Just like the special and specific employment program for women, and also the job improvement program for young people. Finally, also within this beginning, the section of the plan to combat job insecurity, as a way to ensure better employment, a higher quality job that also creates confidence in people who work to live with dignity, and also from there can be able to consume and be able to spend quietly, which is one of the issues that from a private point of view also dynamizes and the economy — everything is related. That is why the expenditure is an investment which results in the economy having a productive expenditure by means of the effort made, by means of public instruments, in this case by means of budgets. As for the recovery and dynamization of the rural environment, we also propose the creation of a single public service for the prevention of forest fires. Of a public nature and of a single nature. We want the recovery for the public of all forest fire prevention management. We have denounced here on numerous occasions the way in which the management of certain fire stations and certain services that were privatized, or the outsourced recruitment of services for the summer, including army surveillance, was done. We believe it's possible to do everything in a single command and in a public command. So this is our budget bet, too, for that political measure. The modification of the agricultural model, with the recovery of unproductive land, the reduction of forest land for the benefit of agricultural land and the elimination of sulphur with the recovery of uxfor as a form of democratic and participatory management of the owners and forest and agricultural owners in private property. It is also a plan of shock and improvement for the recovery of the dairy sector, because we do not believe in the electoral promises of a bean that said that the dairy processing industries would come up with possible investments that made private companies, of which the president in the campaign could promise nothing because nothing depended on him, despite it was an election promise, we ourselves bet on a model that has intervention from the public sphere to promote the creation of dairy processing industries, either for the implementation of new industries, or for the promotion that producers themselves carry out their transformation of milk products. And we do it with budgetary commitment, which is how we have to do it, not just by toasting the sun in the election campaign. And also a plan to advise and support the incorporation of agroforestry. We also present an emergency and rescue plan for the marine and fishing sector, with several features that I point out: first, rescue and the launch of a public service for monitoring and sanitation; yes, a rescue with respect to services that are privatized, once again showing their inability to manage from the public, so they have to defer it to third parties, also probably through companies from which someone brings succulent benefits. Secondly, productive investment in sustainable and extensive aquaculture and the recovery plan of marine banks; recovery plan of marine banks that is related to another part of another plan that we also propose: environmental recovery and review of the waste management model, specifically in relation to the sanitation of the Welsh rivers. We believe that an integral stream-cleaning care but the recovery of seafood banks can help boost employment in relation to the Galician rivers. Also, comarical waste management and recovery plans, such as the alternative to Sogama's incinerator policies. As for housing, we have a specific plan here for 2017 to guarantee access to housing. Call him several tapes. A Aluga program, from aid affected by mortgage executions; it was a consistent plan. A plan with a lease bonus, too, of a consistent economical nature and which is easily accessible in relation to the administrative requirements for its concession. Like the help of the rent — which we also promote — or the plan to prevent and fight against evictions, but a serious plan to be able to carry out the reallocation of people who are in their case rejected. And finally, the program of creating a public housing park for rent, something contrary to what you're letting do, among other places, in the area of Tinería, in Lugo, where, having an important park of housing that could be used for dynamization and use to ensure access to a decent housing, you're not finally managing them, surely, to get rid of them, as is already the plan that is being implemented in some cases.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u56	I'm going to finish by referring to improvements in mobility and public transport, with the creation of a Portuguese public transport company that can vehicle, which can better articulate transport of an urban character, especially in areas where it is economically weak, but it is efficient, however — we believe — from a social point of view, and also to contribute to the fixing of population. A plan of shock against macho violence, endowed with more than 20 million euros, which is consistent with our political discourse of the whole of December. With regard to other concrete measures — and to this end — the development of plans for the protection of equality and prevention of violence against women by local authorities, the promotion of women's self-employment, the integral resources for women in a situation of particular vulnerability. And I just end by pointing out that we have additional plans that you can realise, such as the plan to improve the recovery of public education in the field of linguistic normalization, the drive of proximity trade, or — I would like to mention it — research, development and innovation. We believe that the creation of jobs that generates greater value added is the one that is associated with R+D+i; so we propose greater pre-doctoral aid and promotion of R+D+i recruitment, current transfers to universities for this matter and, finally,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u58	...—if—actions in research, development and innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Mr. Valeriano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We resumed the debate after the exchange of budget policy models that we could have on tomorrow's agenda between the German Government and the opposition groups. The different positions I believe will be quite clear in the debate as a whole and I will now try to explain to them the motivations for which we do not consider it appropriate to accept the transversal amendments they propose from the various parliamentary groups of the opposition. We could certainly agree on some amendments, but the impossibility of accepting them derives mainly from the following. Firstly, the opposition groups have to have more income, well increasing taxes — something we do not agree on — either by creating new tax figures that either have no competence to set them up or even have doubts about legality. Another reason why it is impossible to support certain amendments is that they remove finalist money which must be devoted to a concrete action rather than to the one they propose. Thirdly — and recognizing that some of them are reasonable — the problem is that in order to make them without any funds and games that are necessary to develop priority and even indispensable actions. I'll try to explain myself with some examples. The BNG spokesperson reiterates that we cannot agree to raising EUR 135 million for taxes to all Greeks and Greeks: 45 million for inheritances and donations tax, 30 million for a new large area tax, 37 million for raising wealth tax and 23 million for raising the IRPF. Your Honor, on one of the most progressive taxes like that of the heritage, I remind you that in the 2013 Budget Act we have already increased the scale by 20%, which means that we are today among the communities with a higher tax in Spain. In addition, the lower the minimum exempt obviously the greater number of contributors will affect and will have less collection capacity, but the average content collected from these new contributors would be very low and would give entry to older people, with little fundamentally real estate heritage. In this way, the tax would be less efficient and would come to record a population sector that does not correspond to what must be the objective of this tax, which is the highest income, and would reduce the income available for private consumption in Galicia. Because since the German Government we have been looking exactly the opposite: lowering taxes to middle and low classes and placing Galicia among communities with lower tax pressure for these collectives. That is the objective of the fiscal downturn approved a year ago, which we consolidated in these budgets. For example, in the succession tax, which you want to raise in 45 million euros, we want 99% of the Greeks and the Greeks to continue to be tax free and Galicia to be among the autonomys that are less charged by this tax. It is also reiterating to have to speak in this parliamentary procedure of your proposal to create a new tax on large commercial areas. You know there are important legal questions for its implementation; in fact, it is pending that the Court of Justice of the European Union will rule on its compatibility with European legislation. It would therefore be irresponsible to impose a tax challenged by justice. Furthermore, it could have a deterrent effect on the investments of large commercial distribution groups in Galicia and it is also likely that companies will transfer the highest cost of their establishment to consumers through a higher price on their products. As for minorities, I'll explain why it can't be done as far as it is proposed. They ask, for example, to cut down on potential staff; not only to reduce, they end up eliminating all cabinet staff credit for the Economics, Employment and Industry Council. And this is done by the BNG, who directed that department at that time and didn't eliminate the staff to the councilman's service, but on the contrary, they increased it. But let's go to the data. The Union, as you well know, now spends much less on high office and eventual staff than the former Government used to spend. Figures remain very clear; spending on high office is 41% lower than budgeted expenditure in 2009; and spending on prospective cabinet staff, more than 31% lower than the last year of the Bipartisan Government. At the cost of high office and eventual staff, the BNG particularly believes that it should not try to demagogy, because history says that when they have the possibility of ruling they do everything contrary to what they ask from the opposition, I know it. Another amendment battery cannot be accepted because it would be left out of resources to meet the routine maintenance of the Administration and even would lead to the deterioration of the management's attention. Others intend to reduce expenditure in headings where we allocate less than half the average than was usual until 2009. These are the updated data: office material expenditure, we have lowered them by more than 52 per cent since 2009; meetings, conferences and courses, we have reduced them by almost 65 per cent; advertising and propaganda expenditures — some groups have also made another reference — have decreased by more than 62 per cent; spending on protocol care, have decreased by more than 53 per cent; costs on locomotive, have fallen by half of what was at its time. I could go on with more examples, but I think they're enough. What's surprising is that it looks a lot like it now, not when you spent half as much as this government in this kind of expense. Nor can we change the fate of games financed by finalist funds — and we all know that —. The PSdEG spokesman also tells you that we are not going to transfer a tax increase to the Greeks for 190 million euros. On property taxes, succession taxes and donations and the proposal to create a new tax on large surfaces, I refer to what I just answered our BNG companion. As for the environmental taxes they formulate, with an estimated global collection of EUR 27 million, they do not specify how these calculations are carried out and in some cases they are tax figures that can be impacted on the final consumer. On the fight against tax fraud, we fully agree, and I think we are doing so. And I also suggest to you that the normal thing is that we proceed to have plans for legislation and with sufficient staffing within the Galician Tax Agency, not so much to go to annual plans. It's one of our priorities, along with our attention to the contributor, that we've reinforced with the creation, four years ago, of the Galician Tax Agency. In fact, with the specific plan we have to deepen on this line — as I said today in the morning — we hope to enter about 20 million euros. As for games that ask you to reduce, ask again to reduce your spending on high office charges and any office staff. I insist on my reply to the BNG a moment ago: spending on high office is 41% lower and eventually 31% lower staff. And don't tell me about the government's salaries, the high office; the PSdeG voted in favour of the 2008 budgets — as I reminded his fellow BNG this morning — and that at this point I can say that the high office of the Board, the Government of the Board — compared to what the president, the vice president and the councillors were charged at that time — is that there really must be a lot of faith. [[Murmurs.]] Coherence, please. And they suggest we do what we've already done — and by the way, you weren't doing it either when you were ruling. They are asking us to reduce immaterial spending and reform of the autonomic public sector to eliminate expenditure. Your Honor, I believe that in this matter we have quite well done duties, especially in the reduction of non-productive expenditure — again, to reiterate what I told BNG. On average, we spent half of what you did in games like advertising and propaganda, office materials, meetings, conferences, locomotives... a little bit of memory and coherence, once again. And on the reform of the autonomic public sector, remind you that Galicia will be the first autonomous community to complete a global process of restructuring the instrumental administration, and that, with the rationalization plan carried out, it has allowed to eliminate 78 entities, and it is already about 70 million euros in savings on the previous level of expenditure. The current Government has analysed 160 bodies and, at the end of the process, has eliminated 96 of them, and has optimized 64 others, by introducing significant improvements in economic efficiency. And your group also makes amendments to strengthen social spending. We agree, too. We shield social spending in times of crisis, and we're strengthening it when we have more resources in a much more marked way. I explained it at the morning session: with budgets already at levels equal to 2009, this government is devoting more resources to health care, more resources to education and a lot more resources to social policy. In health care we use five more points than the previous government, and health policies are already well above 40% of the total expenditure. In education we devote two more points than in economic goodness, and we are already about 25% of the total resources for education policies. Ladies and gentlemen, only this year we have increased the resources for social spending to 229 million euros, an increase that adds to the nearly 200 million euros that we made in 2016, in two years. We have approximately 430 million euros more expansion for health, education and social services. And we continue to devote, as has always been our intention, 8 out of every 10 euros to this type of policy. In the minorities there are some curious amendments, by calling them somehow. It is the case that they intend to completely eliminate credits for the solidary fund of textbooks for EUR 3.1 million; however, in the game they propose to end, there is no reference to the freeness of textbooks. They also aim to eliminate aid for the purchase of textbooks and school materials for 4 million euros, a match with 5.46 million euros, and the proposals for increase do not include a forecast for this purpose either. In the wake of cooperation, they seek to eliminate the appropriations to finance the European Territorial Cooperation Group. And the most surprising thing is that in 2008 his Government considered itself a priority element for cooperation with the north of Portugal, and at the moment his group, while he was in the Government, supported this task by signing the cooperation agreement. Then there are another series of amendments with technical errors, because some of the games they propose minorities do not exist. And just as in previous years, they propose a reduction in the transfer of funding to agencies and entities and, however, do not adjust the appropriations of these bodies, as Agadic may have, so there would be credits in non-budgetary revenue-covered agencies. Finally, they make an increase of 15 million euros that describe as a replacement of staff frames, but I really suppose it will be a mistake what I'm going to say, because they assign this game to the application of potential cabinet staff. We all make mistakes; when I'm reminded of some from other groups as well, but I guess it's going to be a mistake, as we all have; the only way we don't have them is not to do anything and I'm sure I'm aware that you're all doing a lot of things from your opposition perspective too. To the spokesman of En Marea, we reiterate that we are against raising 200 million euros to the Greeks and depicting another 300 million euros in revenue, corresponding to deliveries to the system of autonomous financing and the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which, as you well know how the system works, we could not even spend on it in 2017. This government intends to be, and we are – – I believe – rigorous, and it will not include budgets of this exercise for 300 million euros of income that we cannot spend. We are also not going to raise EUR 73 million in inheritance and grant taxes, nor increase EUR 35 million in the IRPF, although, curiously, partial amendments are incongruent, because they end up asking for increased global tax benefits. Everything, we always play at everything. And I can't even collect 4 million for a new large-area tax, for the reasons that I've already exposed in the previous two cases. Nor will it be possible to collect EUR 52 million more from the environmental damage tax, since, as you well know, the nature of this tribute is extra-fiscal and seeks to correct and compensate for the impact caused; therefore, it cannot be changed solely for reasons of collection. And since they criticize some mistake when we're in commission and other forums, I also wanted to point out that In Marea is presenting an amendment proposing a table of increments in the non-financial income status "2016 budgets", when I was reminded of the same thing as a commission error. It's funny how we all have this guy's mistakes as well. Yes, yes, yes, of the year 2016. In addition, they seem to cut and take a lot of AGE proposals, since they formulate the same 52 million for environmental environmental water damage tax that I proposed AGE in the 2014 budgets, 2015 and 2016. And they follow the same amendment from the previous years for deposit tax, the same 10 million 2015 and 2016. And they propose the same 4 million for a tax on large commercial surfaces. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is not very rigorous: to copy and collect amounts of tax increases, in any case in the last three years, when circumstances and surroundings, as I told you the year before that spokesperson of the AGE Parliamentary Group, are not the same every year. I imagine we will agree that the 2017 budget is, fortunately, very different from the year 2014. There is everyone with the seriousness with which he takes the processing of the budgets of Galicia. I could go on with examples of this type, but I also want to address the minorities and game changes that I propose in Marea. Let's also go to games that seek to diminish. In the Vice-Presidentship, there are amendments in which the amount of the minority exceeds the increases and others which leave zero departures necessary for the administration to function. They propose in the Presidency of the Union, on the one hand, to reduce spending on cabinet staff and, on the other, two amendments that increase it. I suppose it will be a problem of ignoring the designation of programmes. In Fairy, they propose to minimize transfers to CIXTEC, but do not formulate the equivalent minority in CIXTEC itself. Moreover, since it is an amendment to strengthen the fight against fraud, it turns out that competition would be in the Atriga rather than in the General Secretariat. A disincentive. I repeat the words to the PSdeG spokesman: this government has as its priority the fight against tax fraud, and this year our goal is an increase of 20 million euros additional by this route. And just by setting an example of the essential departures in Health, they reduce the investment for home respiratory failure therapy. Do you really want to leave patients without home respiratory care? In addition, they make technical mistakes, because transfers for funding of agencies cannot be reduced unless these budget costs are adjusted, as I told them earlier. Or they propose amendments in which the increase in the game is greater than the decrease they make. Finally, proposals that cannot be proposed. I'm going to finish. To sum up your proposals, I would say, on the income side, some are unrealistic, because they're unreal, they're based on income that we can't collect this year, or on taxes that, like the one in the heritage, we already have among the highest in Spain, or on taxes that don't explain how they are calculated, or on the creation of taxes that we can't create, or that are under discussion even by doubts of legality. On the side of the cost reductions, they reduce essential items for the administration's operation and affect the provision of its services to citizens. They ask for downgrading programs in which this government has decreased in some cases – – – I mean – – almost 60%. They remove finalist fund splits that cannot be used to finance the alternative expenses they propose. Therefore, for one or another of the reasons indicated, we cannot accept formulations which would be inadmissible or which would have an impact on the services to be provided by the Autonomic Administration. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u61	Thank you very much, Counselor. We turn around the non-amendant groups. For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the word Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe it is necessary to begin by thanking the adviser for his intervention, because I believe that the counselor of Fairy, Mr. Martínez, has been sufficiently clear about what he was supposed to approve the transversal amendments that the opposition groups present, full of errors, contradictions. I'm convinced that either the next shift the voices of the opposition groups will clarify those errors or they will remove their cross-sectional amendments, because I'm sure they're not willing to present barbarities at such an important full scale as this. On the side of the Socialist Party, I thought we were here to talk about your cross-sectional amendments, but it seems that Mr. Losada wants us to apologize for winning the autonomous elections. I have to tell you that we are not going to apologize for collecting the majority support of the Greeks or we have to ask permission to govern you, and therefore we have to do what we have to do is comply with a citizen mandate, nothing more and nothing less than 47.5% of the Greeks who voted on September 25, and, fulfilling that mandate, what we have to do is follow the roadmap of economic recovery and job creation, a roadmap – – I know – quite distinct from yours. You took us to Galicia in the path of the economic crisis, the wasteland, the mismanagement, and what we did was change our course, change our course and recover the economy and then create jobs. I understand that this is not your model, but, in any case, Mr. Losada, just like you think the people who vote for the PP are not intellectually taller than your group or yours. We, of course, respect all voters: ours, theirs, all of them. [[Applause]] Look, the battery of cross-border amendments to the budgets of the Board presented by either of the three opposition groups could well be worth the qualification of alternative budgets, and I have to tell you that to approve alternative budgets, what you have to do is win the elections, and you haven't done it, neither of the three or the three together, and so today it's not about presenting alternative budgets. Look, in the proposals that you bring to this House, what you are asking the Government of Greece is not to pave the way for the reforms undertaken over the past eight years, but rather to ask us to turn our backs on the citizen mandate that September 25 has been highly defined. Look, we know you're upset with this argument – – Mrs. Pontón, you gave it to your mind – – but the question is not that it's not democratic that you can't make proposals; of course they can make them!; perhaps what is not democratic is that you propose that we go against what the Greeks asked us to do and against what we compromise ourselves in the elections of September 25. You bring here today an unrealistic proposal, an irresponsible proposal and therefore an unacceptable proposal. Ireal because it's based on fictitious income. They were already fictitious when you ruled – – do you remember that 2,000 million euros inflated? – in a fictitious income, therefore, inflated income when you ruled; that's your model but it's not our model. Budgets and irresponsible proposals, because, as we said, they not only ask to reverse the positive path of our economy and our public services, but, as the advisor has already explained, they compromise games dedicated to very sensitive issues; you give them exactly the same, because they don't govern and Galicia for you is the least. So your proposal, that of the three groups, is an unacceptable proposal. It's unacceptable that they want us to assume, as themselves, calculations full of bulk errors and almost moral lessons of how accounts are made. Of course, when they've had the opportunity to rule, you're no example of anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, all of you will have much to explain to the Greeks after these amendments. You have to explain to them that they want to raise taxes by an average of over 200 million euros. And then they won't be worth those euphemisms they used when they presented their amendments. You were talking about the highest tax sovereignty, I'm talking about euphemism! You said, "non-conformist fiscal policy." Hey, look, you guys were trying to assault the Galician wallet through the prosecutor's office; a tax knife, no less, that was your proposal. You wanted to raise the public accounts, which are growing not by the development of the economy, but by creating the basis of squirming the taxpayers; that's their model. And tell them also that they intend to increase public debt, not only drown the current generation, but also drown the following. But we talked about specific things, as the counselor once said. Starting with the Marea Group, at Marea-We can, Mr. Villares, your intervention, today's intervention is absolutely unqualifying. It must have passed the spirit of Christmas and we see that the conciliator from those first two months died out completely, because today we saw a tremendous tone in the morning. It is true that then, if you read the teletypes of noon, we understand everything, and read in Europe Press: "The document associated with the list of old Villares that shares his parliamentary work as spokesman for En Marea". In order for you to be a spokesperson for En Marea, you have to win the others, it's a curious thing, and I understand that this teletype justifies your kid in the morning. [[Murmurs.]] I have to tell him that personally and our group liked his evening tone much more. [[Applause]] You came here today in the morning not to be the leader of the opposition — which I think is the role that would correspond to you if you looked at the results —, you came here not to be the spokesman of a group that seeks to protect the interests of the Greeks, nor even came to postulate itself as leader of En Marea. You this morning — I have to tell you — came today to postulate as a bad successor of Mr. Beiras. Your behavior has worried us in an important way, I don't know if in the last afternoon you'll end up taking off your shoe and hitting some place. I have to tell you one thing: When I was doing these things, I warned the press; I say this because today there aren't many photographers; if that's the way, please warn the press office and call the photographers. Broceries aside, I have to tell you that we prefer another tone, the tone of the previous months, the tone in which we could speak to the Tides of Podemos. About your contradictions, look, you've made the root causes of housing policies and supported the platforms against rejections. But you, without going any further, asked for the budget to be returned to the Infrastructure and Living Council, claiming that it was insufficient. Now the transversal amendments come along, and you're proposing to withdraw 11 million euros. Home!, if they were insufficient, with 11 million euros less I suppose they will be more insufficient. But we must say that they are consistent, that's true. You are mostly consistent with your stance to do nothing about this matter, because you are still waiting for the Council to have you where you rule adhere to the empty housing program. It's something like universal social income, which is so universal that it has only one beneficiary; and that's, of course, the example, the mirror in which you can look. You've also made the root cause of child poverty, remember? You ask in your amendments EUR 1 million for school luncheons to open up in the summer. But the truth is, the first thing you guys did when they ruled in the cities where they rule was precisely to break that promise to open up school dining rooms in the summer. What did you guys do? To adopt the same model as the Galician Union, no less. And now they present an amendment for me, I think they amend themselves. I have the feeling that you are on your own, they have quite a mess in the Tides of Podemos, in Podemos, in all that process of confluence, the process and space, and therefore they are the other thing. On the Socialist Party, I understand that it's not easy being of the Socialist Party, it's not simple. Who was going to tell you that they had the chance to go back to being packagers? But that's the reality. Look, gentlemen of the socialist board, in your amendments to the whole of you ask that the accounts of the Rural Council be rejected because they were insufficient, very well. Then they present cross-sectional amendments, and what do they do?: withdraw 29 million euros. But weren't they insufficient? That's what the Socialist Party is after. Then he dares to talk about the insides, the cabinets. But let's see, Mr. Losada, you're Mr. Touriño's head of office, Mr. Touriño's head of office. But don't you remember the cars, the cabinets, the chiringuitos? You were the champions, 50% more than this government. Mr. Leicega isn't here. I have to tell you that you are a good economist, a serious economist – – – everybody knows it ––. We also know that it should not be easy to work as a spokesman for the Socialist Group having Abel Caballero conspiring in the morning and in the afternoon against him, and less having political commissioners within his own group, as we saw during this debate. But we ask him not to be led by populism and to keep the line of rigour that once characterized the Socialist Party. We sincerely hope that when there is a new budget debate Mr Leicega will continue to be a spokesman for that group, and that he will certainly be an interlocutor with whom to reach agreements. Then there's the Galego Nationalist Block, which has become the champion of the cuts. These are their transversal amendments: they say that the budget of the Council of the Sea is returned because it is not useful to solve the serious problems facing the sector. It doesn't serve the budget, it's coming back. But in the transversal amendments you to Mrs. Rosa Quintana's Councillory, they take away 34.5 million euros. That's your commitment to the Sea Council. Mrs. Pontón, thank you. But that's not the most serious thing. Look, where you propose the big savage crop is on such a sensitive topic as health. That is your commitment to health, of which they speak repeatedly. They're proposing to reduce EUR 30 million in the construction of new health centres, that's reality. I ask you to go through those municipalities where you want to eliminate those health centers and explain them. They propose to reduce another 30 million euros in computer equipment. We understand that you don't want the electronic clinical history to work, you don't want the medical image or telemedicine to work, so important to improve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u64	...the efficiency of our health. Look, we can't take them seriously because you don't take yourself seriously. We will continue to defend public accounts that Galicia needs to continue to grow in the macroeconomic plan and to continue to create jobs. You follow yours, that goes very well; we, of course, will continue with the citizen's mandate. The Tide Lords are beginning to be aware that the Greeks, the more they know them, the less they vote for them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u66	The Tides of Podemos – – sorry, I forgot – lost 140,000 votes in the last electoral process. That's exactly why, because they are dizzy and demonstrate, of course, that when they can't be where they need it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u67	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica of amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u68	Good afternoon, everyone. He spoke of Mr. Puy's tone this morning, but I have to tell Mr. Puy that beside Mr. Tellado you're all a gentleman. [[Laughter]] Well, barbarities are the consequences -- which is the fact that today is quite quiet for the average, it must also be acknowledged -- that they have the tax policies, and not only tax, of the People's Party on the people of this country, of a political force that rose the IVE, which has broken up with the public services, and that already, for example, the issue of composting or redistribution -- I, despite my philological training, don't know that neologism we're going to invent to accommodate the continuing repugations that they put into such a basic service, for example-- [[Laughter]] So, to sum up in this way the different issues that have been coming out, we can't introduce amendments because you have won the elections and meet the will of your election program, but we can't comply with the will of our electoral programs and give the social political battle of what we think should be our priorities. Good. Then they talk about "delicate" games. It must be borne in mind that what we are giving here — I said before — is not a technical or numerical debate, but a political debate; if there are errors and if there are inconcretions, we can easily trade. In any case, by delicate games we could review the whole theme of the electric ticket, which I think is quite delicate — for us insufficient — but that, as far as we can see, they would spare money from there to do absolutely everything. And for the year that comes in the following amendments, we can take the start of the electric ticket, which certainly gives us everything, like you. Well, by citing a couple of specific issues that have come out and which are not correct, for example, the Sea Council and the cuts that we theoretically apply to BNG. Let's say a little bit, Mr. Tellado, the part of industrial aquaculture that you hyperinflation and that we're down to invest in R+D+i, for example. Health care? [[Applause]] Well, in total, we invested — particularly in that health care, although the debate is more collateral — more than 10 million more than you present; of course, we cut into the part of the progressive privatizations that you have helped to rescue public services. By continuing with some other issue that has emerged in this debate, we not only reaffirm ourselves in our tax proposals, which, of course, are not to raise taxes to all Greeks and Greeks — as Mr Valeriano said — but rather to bet on greater progress. Because its progressiveness is very relative and we defend another type of model. And not only that, but we would like to see that within the framework of this Parliament we were able to give the debates and go far beyond the tax powers that we can exploit and go beyond that and work on proposals as we have already launched, such as claiming from the Spanish State the Greek management of corporate tax. Here they have a free recipe that we give them to claim the central government so that they can have more resources for our country with direct management from here. By going into another question already, Mr. Martínez, you asked us this morning for sweetness — which I didn't remember earlier in my intervention the exact term — and now in the afternoon I brought coal. Of course, we had a little more hope after his last intervention that at least he didn't repeat matters that we didn't support. [[Laughter]] I'm going to make a mention, for example, of that so bloody imposed on the big surfaces. I'm not a lawyer, there's a judge here who has already given some explanation about the legal proceeding of this matter. But what we're talking about here is political issues, and something about the philosophy of law I do know and I've studied. So laws also change, by the popular force and by the different evolution that the debates have in political frameworks. That's why there's a question that we'll keep putting on the table. Also until the last week of December, the ground clauses were the panacea of legality, and now we have a lot of Greek and Germans concerned about how they will recover an improperly charged money. They have these doubts while since the Central Government they are absolutely unable to debate anything and while this Galician Union is practically asleep. And I'm running out of time; then I'm just finishing up. About what Mr. Martínez and Mr. Tellado said about the minorities and the general sense of the amendments, you can play on further disqualifying, that we do very badly, that we leave without Bic bollies or computers the advisories — all you want – but in the end, that is to point to a marque to avoid a more global debate, which is that deep issues of these budgets are not changed to have better social redundancy in the Galicians and the Greeks, because you simply don't want and refuse to listen and is to hit like a wall. But we are persistent people and this opposition will continue to beat against that wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth, Mr. Tellado, is that doing merits is very harsh, it's very hard, it's frankly hard. Don't worry too much about the pacism, Mr. Leicega, the political commissioners, the mayor of Vigo... today what you had to worry about was box B of which you were talking about in Madrid. That had to worry them a little bit. But, well, they don't worry, which is very good. [[Applause]] Look, indeed, I was the director general of the board of presidents and there were Audis — by the way, bought by Mr Fraga, but we are not going into that absolutely despicable campaign. Do you know what there was, Mr. Tellado? 8.5% of unemployment, and the Greek economy was growing to 3.5%. So, indeed, that was the situation. And indeed there was a crisis, which we all know was to blame, from Lehman Brothers to the markets of Hong Kong, from Zapatero — that we all know —. But the truth is that at that time, when the Audis and the general directors of the Touriño office, unemployment was 8.5%. And poverty in this autonomous community, despite the falsity that Mr. Feijóo systematically says there, because none of you explained to him that the rate of poverty is based on average income and therefore, indeed, at that time, with a high income, the percentage was higher, but the average income of those "poor" was much higher. It would be nice if you were to explain it to him, a particular class, in that unfavourable teaching vocation by some member of the People's Party who has already shown on some committee, he's very well at his job, sure, very well at his job, but for now the spokesperson was Mr Tellado. Environmental taxes. We do the same as in the case of taxes on bank deposits, which, in fact, we did not put it, finally put the Central Government and finally the Greeks are looking at the air. The taxes we propose to the Greeks are taxes that are enforced in different autonomous communities, many of them — I insist — governed by the People's Party. And that's ugly, ugly... I used to say Confucius that everything has its beauty, what happens is that some people find it hard at times. Do you know what's really ugly, Counselor? The poverty in this country. That's what's ugly, the poverty and inequality in this country. Everything else is effectively solved by politics. [[Applause]] And by the way, we already realized, listening to Mr. Tellado, that we were discussing management models here and we weren't talking about politics. We actually realized how your group's voicer was doing to you ironing case of what it's talking about management models. Look, we keep saying the same thing: taxation has to be progressive and the tax model has to be changed and who else has to pay more. I'm going to set an example. There was news yesterday in the press: a traffic accident, McLaren 650 Spider; I don't know much about cars, but I got on the Internet; 650 horses, 240,000 euros in price, in the name of a company. Don't you think something needs to be changed? You don't think anyone who's in a car of EUR 240,000 on behalf of a company and who's therefore supposed to be needed for the normal activity of that company, is pure and simply, I don't say breaking the law, which I suppose is not complying with the law, but doesn't seem to them to have to change that law? Doesn't it seem to you that, when there's a rate of poverty that grows every day, when next to it are the emergencies of the Greek hospitals as they are -- I know it's the peak of the flu, but it's a peak of the flu that repeats every year -- when we're on the subject of books, school eaters, scholarships, we have to change the tax model? Can't they recognize that? And then he comes here, indeed, to examine us, which is very well, that both you and Mr. Tellado examine us; I feel particularly gratified that he examines me, Mr. Tellado, and I would feel much more if I were suspended. [[Applause]] So it's about that, it's about changing the tax model, doing two very simple things, or trying to do them, Counselor. And this is politics, it's not management, it's politics. It is to try to improve the labour market, that people's wages are worthy and that workers are not poor and that training courses for employees are given, if they are given, Counsellor — I don't know if it's management or politics, if they give, because for years they haven't given, then they give. You know? Is it management? Is it politics? Ask Mr. Tellado if he's a manager or a politician. So, on the one hand, that. And on the other hand, public services really get blocked. And they really shield themselves by putting resources in public health and education. That's how they get armored. They blend in with money, with funds, and the funds get out of there. And it's not true that the fall in taxes generates economic growth that increases the collection, empirically false, is false. But tell me examples that are kept in time, don't talk to me year by year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u71	Finish, please, finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u72	Counselor, tell me examples that are kept in time. In which systematic tax-discharge policies have increased the fiscal collection sustained in time, I insist, sustained in time? It could be a year or two, in short periods. So that's what we're talking about in these amendments. And it's very good that they examine them, and it's very good that they suspend them and it's very good that they don't approve them, that they don't support them, but they have to know what they're doing politics, that they're not doing management and that they're defending a model of society that is their own and that is not ours. It is a model of society... and with this ending, Mr President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u73	Yes, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u74	...of what I'm going to set a paradigmatic example, even though it happened in Madrid. It's a model of society in the new tower of Villar Mir, really, and I'm going to say why. That gentleman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u75	We all understand the example.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u76	No, they didn't understand, I'll say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u77	Yes, yes, of course. Thank you. Look at the clock, Mr. Losada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u78	...install a company, a private university and a private hospital in that tower.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u79	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u80	That's the model you sell.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u81	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u82	And it's politics, it's not management, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u83	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u84	I didn't know I had to ask permission on the tone of the intervention, and we didn't know we had to ask permission on how to do things; at any rate, we were glad that you didn't like them. Imagine they were always grateful and kind and kind to the things we said. Well, little antithetic project, and it's big, and, as it's big, we've seen it express here. And that's why we alluded to two things in the morning. You will have the opportunity — I don't know whether or not to explain a couple of things in terms of how to understand budget policy, specifically in relation to the Aluga bonus and in relation to the energy ticket. Well, if you don't, well, then by the twitter you already know what your position is. Because we asked here for concrete explanations about budgetary policy in relation to certain social investment that we understood was essential and that we assumed concrete things in which you, despite your speech, were not fulfilling. That wasn't the way to protect the most disadvantaged. We have alluded to a program that is published today in the DOG, which we haven't noticed either. It was easy to say if yes or no, it was easy to explain whether we were also on the path of the fall in the 2016 spending games in relation to 2017, both in relation to the palliation of energy poverty and in relation to the Aluga bonus. We weren't told anything. We were told -- yes -- about the assault on the wallets. Home!, it's good that Mr. Tellado comes here to tell us about the assault on the wallets, because in the People's Party they know a lot about assault on the wallets and, of course, we're also reading teletypes all day long, but above all the ones that appear above are those of Basel, they're none other. So, the case of Bárcenas, the assault on companies that were public works dealers, who were involved by those friends of the rotational doors that were first in the Government and then in the private company and then in that same relationship were the ones that received public works... so if you earn everything, so if you win the envelopes B, so you win the elections. About the envelope, right, all about the envelope. That's the point. [[Applause]] And here's a problem, and that's why you rule for your friends, that's why they have those problems to create new tax figures, the tax figures for large surfaces tax. Yes, we talked about the specific case of Rafael Arias Salgado, but we could talk about many others. You guys don't want to fight your friends and at the same time don't want to fight the powerful. And when the lists go out of the Bárcenas case, what we see is that they don't want to face those who finance them. That's the problem. But come here and tell them, there's no problem. We have another way of financing matters, of course. Go, go! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Neither do the big electricians, who are the ones who have the cheers, effectively holding a parafiscal tax, but who can also be exercised and developed as a budget policy, or it's time to explain it better, when the budget project is being carried out. Government for friends. We could also execute Operation Condor, but my partner Antonio will finish it later, so you'll have enough of it. And who says that tells Gürtel, etc. So, questions we have enough to talk about, we have enough of them. No, we'll be able to talk about what you say, what you say, in the tone that you say... In any case, we talked about, we came here about what was the subject of this debate; if you come and introduce other things, then don't complain about what others answer them, don't complain about what others answer them. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we've come here to talk about budgets, because come up here and defend the budgets. And if you want to defend other things, don't worry, that the rostrum is also ours and, therefore, we will give you a satisfactory answer to your [...]. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Well, the taxes of dubious legality. The problem of taxes of dubious legality is a problem of political courage, it's not a problem of legality, it's a problem of political courage. The taxes are in force, the taxes are to be collected right now. So it's a problem of political courage. If you're brave politically with the strong, you're going to find the wealth where you are, you're going to look for it so you can then redistribut it effectively. I'm going to finish, with two questions. First of all, of course, I've been talking about the budgets since then, which is what we came to. Cut them off and take them from AGE. No, there's a problem: because we haven't received the amendments from other years, we have to persevere, and the tax figures have to persevere in them. You're the ones who have obligations when they make a budget, year by year, with a different macroeconomic picture, to cut and paste. We can establish new tax figures when they haven't hosted them in previous years. And besides, we say even more: if it's the same amount in the various years and they've improved economic circumstances, as you say, you raise the amount, there's no problem. Then we'd agree, too. I'm going to end up, too, with regard to certain issues you mentioned, with regard to partial amendments. We have no problem with discussing partial amendments, but we would like to have a debate on the subject. Now, if they come to us like this and don't give us a chance to have a full debate on partial amendments, because we have to stay half-hearted. In any case, in relation to this particular issue, the items have been reverted to an integral care programme, so that is not true what you are saying about the reduction of certain health benefits. We agree — and I am finished — that this is a very important whole. That's why we at the Vocier Union on the other day asked for it to be held in a number of days, not in a concentrated one, so that we could all have a greater and better debate and socially we could better transmit what the government bet is and what the social justice proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u85	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Mr Villares, about the word "impertinent", impertinent Members, I understand not. So if you agree with me, we can take the floor. There are no impertinent Members, there are more or less bold Members, but impertinent is none. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We'll withdraw, if you don't mind... [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, I have no drawback, but to withdraw that word, if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u86	Well, I can remove that expression, but not to change it by "growling"!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u87	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u88	I can withdraw that qualification, but not to re-qualify it as "growled."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u89	No, you understand me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u90	They're very different issues. The first one I'll take it, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u91	That expression is withdrawn. Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u92	Thank you again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this debate and I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my gratitude for the work of the parliamentary groups in this important budgetary procedure and — I really believe — the speeches of the different speakers in this plenary session. During this debate everyone had the opportunity to formulate his model of budgetary policy, Mr Vice-Speaker of the PSOE. Obviously, the German Government maintains its own and the opposition groups defend each other, but even though with the logical differences and given that this session was entirely, I hope that parliamentary groups will be able to continue working to, if possible, incorporate some improvement into the final budget text, which we hope to adopt in a few weeks. It's very important to have budgets as soon as possible, it's very important to be able to work together, Government and opposition, in a key legislature to complete Galicia's economic recovery. During my speeches today I tried to be realistic, neither too triumphalist nor deny that fortunately the economic situation has changed for the better since 2014 and that today we are at the best economic moment since the crisis. From the German Government we are aware, on the one hand, that this should not make us forget that there are still many Greeks and Greeks who are experiencing difficulties. But on the other hand, the improvements that have been achieved have given us new opportunities to persevere in the policies that have succeeded in resurging the last economic crisis in recent years. I insist: on this path we are all needed. We have challenges which are crucial for the future and the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, among which we are undoubtedly able to achieve a model of self-financing that is sustainable, allowing an identical provision of essential public services regardless of the place, the territory of residence. A country position, together, will give more strength to the German Government. I hope that we are all able to achieve this consensus. As I said before, these early budgets of legislation are very important, because they have to be useful in order to take a more step in the common goal of improving the life of our citizens, they have to serve for more Greeks and Greeks to find a job and quality, they have to serve to consolidate a quality public quality, they have to serve to improve the teaching of our young people, they have to serve to deepen our greatest care, they have to serve to contribute and help our self-employed and entrepreneurs in their day to day-to-day, and, above all, they have to serve to bring solutions to those who are still going wrong, fighting inequalities and giving opportunities to people who have suffered the most devastating effects of the economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not words. We have a project of budgets with measures and resources to implement them, some budgets that are part of a project, in the Galician Strategic Plan, which designs cross- and sectoral programmes, which, with the help of Galician major experts in business and academic fields, have to contribute to maintaining sustained growth over the next few years, with the challenge of reducing the unemployment rate to around 10% by the end of this decade. Despite the legitimate discrepancies, each parliamentary group, as is logical, formulates its draft budgets. I insist on the need to work together in a key moment for Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, one more year we are not in the situation that we all would like, but objectively there are more Greeks and Greeks who are better than when we presented this same debate one year ago. Our goal must be that we all work within another year, if we have the honour to participate in this budgetary debate, in which we have helped more Greeks and Greeks live a little better. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u93	Thank you, Counselor. Vote for Group II amendments
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u94	We must therefore finish the debate by voting on Amendments to Group II. Vote for amendments amending the overall budget content
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u95	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 3 (Doc. # 2569 and correction of G.P. 2613 errors. of the Galego Nationalist Block, which modify the global content of budgets. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u96	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 2571) by G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, which modifies the global content of budgets. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u97	We are now voting on the amendment by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 2535 and correction of errors 2595) of G.P. in Marea, which amends the global budget count. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of amendments that transfer appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u98	We begin by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group to transfer credits between sections. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 4 to 35 (Doc. # 2569 and correction of G.P. 2613 errors. of the Galego Nationalist Block, which transfers credits between sections. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u99	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 2571) by G.P. of the Galician Socialists, who transfer credits between sections. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u100	And we voted for the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 1 (Doc. # 2535 and correction of errors 2595) of G.P. in Marea, transferring credits between sections. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u101	Therefore, the amendments to the whole and the overall accounts of expenditure and revenue statements are rejected, and this bill is transferred to Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, in order to continue its processing, in accordance with Article 114(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We continue with the agenda, with point 2. Comprehensive discussion of the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u102	Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group have been amended to this project. For the presentation of the bill, the councillor of Fairy has the word for word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u103	Thank you again, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I am speaking in this plenary to present the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures for 2017, a rule that complements the Bill of Budgets for this exercise, too, as we have just seen, in parliamentary processing. As in other times when we present this rule, the main objective is to seek greater effectiveness and efficiency in a set of measures relating to different areas of activity, which, with a vocation of permanence over time, contribute to the achievement of certain multi-year guidance objectives pursued by the Autonomous Community through budgetary execution. In this respect, I remind you again that the doctrine of the Constitutional Court sets out that different executive and regulatory measures, and that by their nature they must adopt a rank of law, should not be incorporated into the annual budget laws, but into specific rules as we present today. In addition, I would like to reiterate that the doctrinal debate on the nature of so-called accompaniment laws was resolved by the Supreme Court. The high court has set up these kinds of rules as ordinary laws, whose contents are fully protected by the freedom of configuration enjoyed by the legislator and which allows for a better and more effective execution of the Government program in the various areas in which it develops its action. Among the measures included in this bill, which I will mention below, are those that aim to set up population in rural areas, improve personnel management, speed up administrative procedures, bring rationality, promote efficiency or ensure legal security. Thus, this rule consists of four titles, the first of them devoted to tax measures, the second of the administrative measures, the third to the management of the regular public transport of passengers and the fourth to the provisional actions of urban management. In tax matters, we included a new decision to deepen selective tax reductions and to focus on a priority area for this government, as was noted during the morning and much of the afternoon: the rural environment. We have eliminated taxes for young people, large families and disabled people who buy a home to live in rural areas. This discount will be applied in all parishes qualified as underpopulated areas, with medium-low intensity, where it is necessary to recover population. We have eliminated for these groups the tax on costly heritage transmissions and legal acts documented in 87% of the territory of Greece. We seek to promote settlement on a permanent basis, with the consequent benefits that this entails for the environment. For this reason, it applies to dwellings that are usual for the buyer and it is directed at different groups of objects of protection, as stated earlier: young people, large families and disabled people. This measure also sets limits on the assets of the buyer and the value of the dwelling, thus introducing conditions of progressiveness and economic capacity. As for the tax rate on lucky games, invite or chance, we homogenise the rules of management in the rules of the game on the settlement and payment of their tax rate, about payments to the account. As regards own taxes on administrative charges, on the one hand, the rise in the rates of counting is fixed at 1% and, on the other hand, the changes introduced in Law 6/2003, of rates and prices of Galicia, which are due either to the creation of new rates or to the modification of the vergents. Secondly, as far as administrative measures are concerned, we have legislated various aspects of public service. First of all, the functionalization of workers. We created the scales of officials needed to carry out the operationalization processes agreed last year with the trade union organizations on the issue of the forest fire prevention and defence service. At the same time, we created the scales necessary for the functionalization of the categories of staff of the Consortium for Services of Equality and Welfare, and we also adapted the titrations of other existing scales. On the other hand, by completing the planning for the functionalization of the Joint Staff, we also enable the processes for the functionalization of the temporary staff of the Galician Union, its conversion as an acting official. In this way, we have equipped ourselves with the tools needed to advance the progressive and full functioning of our staff, responding to the repeated demands of trade union organizations. Integration of temporary workers into the collective union agreement, in parallel, and completing the process of equalizing the legal regime and working conditions. We enable integration into the collective labour force agreement of the temporary workers of the public-autonomic sector entities, a process that can be undertaken prior to negotiations with the trade union organizations present in the General Bureau of Public Employees of Galicia. We also proceed to a new figure: the volunteer service commission. We have modified the Employment Act to allow greater versatility and mobility for staff members belonging to the scales, promoting the temporary promotion of this staff to other posts other than those of their original scale, whenever they count on the necessary titration. This change also affects health scales. And we generally establish the principle of subjection to collective bargaining of decisions arising from the exercise of organizational powers under the law that affect the working conditions of public employees. In the economic and industry section, we respond to the demand made by the electricity biomass sector, and we repeal Decree 149/2008 of 26 June, which puts an end to the blockage of the sector, which has so far had two major restrictions: on the one hand, the need for a public tender, and on the other hand the impossibility of installing a plant of more than 10 megawatts. For its part, as far as mining management is concerned, we have included a regulatory provision to avoid duplication and we have ordered the Galician Mining Chamber to manage the mining cadastral census. The advantages will be to speed up processing, allowing telematics to issue certificates, and to increase legal security for both concessionaries and applicants. In addition, we introduced an article to bring private funds to the development of R & D projects in the field of the public health system. The Esforza initiative promotes the involvement of society in research and the transfer of research results to clinical practice, this involvement of society in the processes of research and innovation, through economic approaches, which seeks a social impact and a global trend, from which Galicia does not intend to be out of line. Thus, since the Health Council and Sergas, through the Health Knowledge Agency, this initiative has been launched, designed for entities and citizens seeking a collective impact on the promotion of R & D in the health sector in Galicia. It is addressed to individuals or entities who, through their social and business responsibility, want to contribute to Galicia's socio-economic advancement in the very specific field of health research, and who also expect an immediate social return from their investment. As regards rural areas, we have amended the laws of the mountains and improving the structure of Galicia with several objectives: ordering and protecting better the territory of Galician farmers and forestry; providing greater legal certainty to citizens in general, and in particular farmers, farmers and forest owners; and speeding up administrative processing. These changes will help to boost our agricultural and forestry fabric by facilitating the use of resources and ultimately improving the quality of life of rural inhabitants. In the area of fishing, we propose two legislative amendments in the administrative concessions of ports: one of them is a change to adjust the exploitation of nautical and recreational facilities, adapting them to the demand of the sector, and to extend the deadlines for certain obligations acquired by the concessionaires, so as not to endanger their viability. We also introduced, in line with the State-backed law, the possibility of extending the duration of certain administrative concessions that relate to recreational nautical activities from 35 to 50 years. From the administrative concessions on aquaculture in the Fisheries Act, we included changes to adapt autonomous legislation to state legislation, with the aim of increasing the legal security of companies and investors. In social matters we introduced two precepts. The first sets out the co-financing scheme in the services provided by the Galego Consortium for Services of Equality and Welfare — or whether it replaces it — in collaboration with the municipalities and communities. A new model of co-financing for the provision of services for children's schools and day-care centres currently managing — or running this consortium in future — is regulated in collaboration with local authorities, to ensure the financial sustainability of services and to homogenize their conditions as a guarantee of legal security, in line with the framework agreement signed last May with Fegamp. Secondly, we amend Article 16 of Law 13/2008, of Galician social services, to lay down more clearly and accurately the concept and content of the single electronic social history. The obligation to incorporate the necessary information by the various entities which make up the Greek Social Services System is established. Thirdly, with regard to the management of the regular public transport of passengers, this Parliament passed last July a law marking the following roadmap to address the reorganization and modernisation of the public transport system in Galicia, with the urgency of the Supreme Court ruling annulling the extensions of the transport concessions. In that law, the Public Transport Plan of Galicia is regulated as an instrument of this reordination, its content and its deadline; and a transitional period was fixed in which it would advance through phases in the reordination. The legislation on transport now included in this Budget Support Act aims to clearly lay down the procedures for ensuring the provision of the public passenger transport service during the transitional period and during the implementation of the first phase of the reorganisation. The Board has already begun the reorganisation of the passenger transport system, in order to ensure that its first phase is functioning from August 2017; what is done with these new measures is to establish the procedures for such reorganisation. Fourthly, with regard to the regulation of interim measures for urban management, we believe that it is necessary to provide legal certainty and security for citizenship and the various operators in urban development, without prejudice to the most absolute of the judicial resolutions. We thus include a provision in this Act of interim management instruments measures. This regulation will apply to those assumptions where the declaration of nullity of all or part of a municipal urban planning instrument gives rise to the revival of a previous planning, which does not respond to the urban reality existing in the municipal term arising under the annulled instrument. The interim management instruments will consist of reviving certain areas of the cancelled plan, never the complete plan, after justification of the municipality. Among other developments, this will strengthen the legal certainty of the licences granted. Certain requirements will have to be met, yes, as the procedure for drafting the new plan is at least initiated; and the court rulings which have fallen under the said plan will never be breached, since the irregularities or vices which cause that judgment will be corrected. The text of this bill is supplemented by several additional, transitional and derogatory provisions for matters such as regulation of instruments for coordinating public transport, integration of transport services — such as operating formulas on demand — and unification of the Joint Computer Services, which have so far been distributed to two different bodies. This decision will result in cost savings, avoid duplication and gain in synergies. Or the authorization for the creation of the Galaga Forest Industry Agency, which is a member of the competent economic adviser. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, by reiterateing that these measures aim to contribute to the establishment of rural populations, to improve the management of public personnel and to speed up the procedures before the administration, bringing about rationality, promoting efficiency and ensuring legal security. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u104	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs Rodil, for a time of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u105	Good afternoon. Before we get into flour with the contents of the Law on tax and administrative measures, let me think a little bit about the use that the People's Party has to do along two legislatures, and now at the beginning of this third instrument. We are faced with a trap made by law, used to modify up to 21 standards by the back door, preventing the possibility of a broad political, parliamentary and social debate, which reaches not only this House, but also all the sectors affected by the measures which are included in the so-called Accompanying Act. In previous years and in 2017, this instrument, which should include regulations related to public spending and investment, is becoming a sort of tailor-made box where partial and inconceivable measures are incorporated, with which the Government intends to escape from the most likely social challenge that would result from following regular channels for its reform. What we say: the trap made by law. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we would agree with a law that collects the fiscal policies necessary to increase public income — as told today, both in the morning and now, in the afternoon session — and thus have the necessary funds for budgeting the policies and services that this country needs and its workers and workers. But this bill hurts about these tax measures. But once again, the Government is abdicating its own fiscal policy, even in the wise possibilities which the current financing system allows, and which from our point of view should, at least, contemplate — or in this case return — the progressive taxation of successions and prayers — which has been mentioned here, eliminating the linear benefits introduced in the previous economic exercise. In these days, it was published in the press that Galicia is one of the territories — along with the Canary Islands — that lowers the tax on succession. It is not that we want to record it linearly — as we have come to ensure at some point — but that the highest assets do not benefit from the same deductions and bonuses as the most modest ones, as is maintained by the People's Party by 2017. Act also in the property tax, allowing its real restoration with the application to assets greater than €300,000 excluded from habitual housing. It's not to shake hands to wallets or pockets of all the Galicians and all the Greeks, but to those people in our country who have a higher heritage. Apply also greater progress in the autonomic sections of the IRPF, with additional charges for taxable bases of more than EUR 60,000, and above all for those of more than 120,000. Or to create, among other things, a tax that is serious — it has been said here too in the afternoon session — the large commercial areas, to alleviate, on one side, the serious economic and social impact of commercial establishments that develop their activity on large surfaces, and thus to promote trade in proximity. So things, not even this would be a complete tax package, since for that we would have to have fiscal capacity. A concert scheme — which is disbanded by the People's Party's bench — allows us to act legally on the large tax figures — the IRPF, the VAT, or the corporate tax — in exchange for accompaniment with which the Montor on shift orders. When we're defending economic sovereignty since the Galician Nationalist Block, we're talking about the real decision-making capacity on taxes raised in this country. We refer to direct management of resources to face investment in public services. It's not about fear, it's about the things to eat. What we propose today, so things, are a set of minimal measures, within the limited existing autonomy, which, despite everything, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the People's Party very much fear that they dare not even implement themselves to increase their spending capacity. You prefer, in this case, to obey Madrid rather than meet the needs and demands of the Greeks and the Greeks to have a dignified life and to see the social inequalities that have already been discussed here. Instead, what we find in this Accompanying Act is a large number of reforms in sectoral laws, even in some recently approved ones, to deepen in a way of opaque governance, without transparency or minimal participation in the sectors concerned. Among other issues — some — are a frontal attack on the rights of public employees and collective bargaining, a measure denounced before the judicial bodies by civil servants. In this Accompaniment Act you change the working conditions of the staff framework, by denying the union organizations representing it and the negotiating tables of those who are part of it. Substantial aspects of the Public Service Act — approved in 2015, with only one and a half years of vigilance — are also changed, among them, one of the most controversial parts, such as the conversion of indefinite personnel squares into interim officials, which allows for an intermediate step towards future depreciation and layoffs. Even today, in the morning, workers in the Wellness staff board were concentrated at the door of this Parliament. If that wasn't the case, I mean, if I wasn't looking for that future amortization or dismissal, if it was a transparent measure, I took it back from the bill and processed it before negotiation at the general negotiating and staff tables of the Galician Council with representative trade unions. They also expand in this Accompanying Law the authorisations of games—the advisor now also said it—in addition to sportsmen, any bet on which there is an uncertain result. We'll bet on this country, whether it's raining tomorrow or not, until it's time for me to win an election fight. In the face of the proliferation of machines and betting, it seems that what matters most, in view of what the Accompanying Law sets, is to collect, but not to take into account the conduct that encourages such changes. They're supporting gambling companies before the general interest, which would recommend a restriction of such activities, especially in public spaces that share other uses. Instead of restricting the game to specific locations, with input controls to predict additive pathologies around it, they still extend their action radio more to hosting and similar sites, only with the argument of the collection. There are other ways to collect without having to comply with the ages of the gambling sector — as I have said before — with a fiscal policy directed at recording the highest incomes and great estates. They introduce substantial reforms in the Mountain Law, including the very definition of the mountain, which affects any administrative intervention in forest activity. A law passed in 2012 that now changes through the back door without a minimum consultation of the sector, not even the Forest Council as an institutional body for social participation in forest matters, especially the mountain communities, to which a new moratorium is applied in the conversion of mandatory agreements and without negotiation or ensuring that within this extra time, investments in the mountains will be maintained in common managed by the Union. We wonder if the successive moratoriums to return the mountain to communities are not facilitating the devaluation of them or a hasty management and sale of their wood in favor of the forest industry to the detriment of their owners. There is no objective reason to impose successive extensions in minimal contrast to the affected communities. Among other issues, they also introduce some of the most critical aspects of the massively rejected aquaculture law, such as the possibility of extending research authorisations and concessions up to 50 years. These measures, within the broadest pretension — we fear — to adopt an aquaculture law that burys the traditional, extractive sector, and that have already been successively rejected by the sector itself in the streets, by the way, beyond that intention to pass that law, we are very afraid that the only attempt is to go into contact with it and without any kind of dialogue with the sector, despite — I say — the massive mobilizations that have shown their rejection in the streets. We understand, therefore, that that suppression or withdrawal of the draft a few days before the celebration, precisely, of that massive demonstration was not a real commitment to support traditional extractive fishing and catch and seafood, but that once the elections are passed back to butter, they encourage, facilitate and consolidate for longer industrial aquaculture facilities in a way, again, artefact and opaque way. They also advance in this law a whole reform of the collective transport regime when, in April 2016, only a year ago, they had to pass an express law to comply with the judgments of the Court of Defence of Competition, which required them to adjust the transport services regime to Community legislation. Now they persist in presenting the regulation of the passenger transport sector to a closed standard blow; a way of proceeding that has already caused the first attempt of 2011 to be invalidated judicially and that their new attempt, also processed in a hurry and by single reading in 2016, but that in any case there would be a period of twenty-one months to define the new regime and collective transport map of travellers in Galicia, if they are again altered by a species or sort of legislative spasm, a new demonstration of legislative action through conditional reflexes. You remember quite well that dog of Pavlov: they touch the bell and appear more willing to meditate and rationally seek a stable solution to this problem and, above all, thinking about the final public service, thinking about how the model of collective road transport in Galicia will remain, instead of satisfying demands on the part, which, as has already been noted earlier, are finally failed solutions. Just a year ago, also in February 2016, the Official Journal of Galicia published the latest Law on the Land of Urban Management; a new standard for the future was then stated. We see that the future for the People's Party is shorter than the peak of a bonina and lasts less than a year. Now, it serves to patch it up and solve a timely case, also created by the People's Party itself, such as the annulment of the PXOM of Ourense and the urban vacuum established since then. We insist that it is bad business, an announced failure, legislate impulses, dictate rules with intuitive and non-reflective solutions, for what is needed, above all, wide contrasts and consultations. It seems that this Law of soil was more lame and defective than it was hoped to defend the Government at that time, as it was cases like the annulment of the urban management of Ourense on the table did not promote the debate where it was to be done through an ordinary parliamentary procedure. Now they want an early drafting to be valid, without technical advances and advisory bodies; you can dissolve the Higher Committee on Urbanism, regardless of what the Town Councils and the Fegamp think on a subject of such relevance to the local authorities, because in case they do so much to them and almost are too much to them. To have an absolute majority—and of that has already been spoken by my comrade Noa Presas before—by a government and proceed thinking that this gives a white letter so that the Executive will regulate and disgruntle at his discretion does not turn them into infallible, and in view it is. Finally, a reference — I hope I don't waste my time — also to that attempt to submit critical councils with reasons and arguments to their criteria in the management of social services. The Government intends to consolidate an amount of debts that many municipalities argue with the Consortium on the basis of contrasted and legitimate arguments. According to the agreements in force, the Consortium has sent out liquidations in recent years to co-finance the services, with which the municipalities disagree, even some municipalities have incurred expenses that were not theirs. This dispute which, by changing the criteria of the Consortium not covered by the agreements, should be resolved in the follow-up committees, bilaterally between the Consortium and the municipalities, on the basis of the criteria — I say — of the convention. Since the Consortium does not take that step, it tries to impose its criteria and so far it has not been able to. Since there are economic services of the municipalities themselves that question the criteria that are intended to be used by this rule, from the Government what they want is that the qualifications which the Consortium calculates are given as valid, without being able to discuss them from the municipalities, with legitimate criteria and even if they can be declared liquid; therefore, directly executive by the Board by withholding funds that must be transferred to them from the Local Cooperation Fund. The Government must put aside — we understand from the Galician Nationalist Block — arrogance. And today we have seen quite a dose here in parliamentary headquarters, shielding the accounts presented by the Consortium to the municipalities and asking for transparency, clear accounts by the Consortium with most municipalities claiming them and, above all, dialogue and willingness to reach agreements. What you all beg for in this House to oppose, but that soon goes into practice. I end by going back to the beginning: you use the budget accompaniment law to take forward measures that have even been socially rejected in the past legislation or to patch up the laws that you yourself passed just a year or a year and a half ago, and not as we understand it. It should be to provide this legal instrument with the necessary tax policies to increase income and thus to have funds for public policy and services budgets that Galicia needs so much to overcome a crisis that, in fact, was a scam for workers, shielding the right of access to quality and public services and boosting those measures — such as those presented by the Galician Nationalist Block — that would enable them to develop with future prospects for this country. We will not support making the law trap or they will not count on us to open the back door and so approve harmful measures for the interests of this country. They use the law of accompaniment for what it must be: an instrument with which to develop a fiscal policy necessary and useful for Galicia, even within the limited autonomy with which we count, and they leave, if they have the right, to use this measure to advance policies that have already been to them, as in the case of the law of aquaculture, strongly answered, not only in this House but also in the streets. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia tabled an amendment to the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures with a express request for return, since we do not agree either in the form or in the substance. We do not agree in the form — the representative of the BNG previously pointed out — because it has been a common practice in the governments presided over by Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who is present, together with the Draft Budget Law, this accompanying law, also called omnibus law for encompassing a universality of subjects without any structure and connection between them. Looking at recent-year journals is a unanimous criticism of all opposition groups in this House and it is also a unanimous request from opposition groups to change this way of processing these laws. It is not the report submitted by the General Legal Counsel for this draft law itself that: "the use of legislative provisions such as the one in which we are concerned, with a great heterogeneity, further dealt with by the urgency procedure, can in some way affect the effective exercise of the right to political participation of the statutory powers". This is -- I must remember -- a bill consisting of ninety-two articles, six additional provisions, two transitional provisions, three derogatory provisions, four last provisions and two annexes. Through this law more than twenty-one laws are amended, through a procedure which is exceptional and urgent and which is subject to the approval of the budgetary law. We must not forget that through this accompanying law we are dealing with a number of issues such as tax measures, public service, administrative procedure, housing, economy and industry, agriculture, innovation, sea, social services, public transport and urban management. And, therefore, it amends such important laws as Galician water, Galician public employment, housing, health, mining, fishing, social services, Galician transport, Galician ports and soil. So they change -- as I said before -- more than twenty-one laws. This procedure prevents one of the issues included in this law in strict and profound knowledge. Again, or the report of the Legal Counsel becomes clear again — and I quote again from the text: "In this regard it must be pointed out that it would be a more perfect technique to circumscribe the political debate of a draft law to a specific subject, which would encourage greater specialization of it and possibly a better technical purity of the result". This kind of law prevents ordinary debate in the German Parliament, which means a democratic retreat, a decline in political and legal quality, and limits the work of impulse and control that must be defended from the legislative power, that is, from this House. This procedure also allows the absence of the necessary reports by the various advisors regarding the changes they propose and allows the absence of economic impact reports, only if we are provided with an economic-financial study. It also prevents a very important part, which is the participation of the sectors concerned, those who do not speak to them, and I quote again the report of the Legal Counsel, where it says: "The exception to hearing and public information procedures can be based and justified on the dossier in view of the connection of matters regulated with budgets, the organisational nature of regulated matters or the competition of serious reasons of public interest that justify it, such as the need to address with urgency a given regulation." So the socialists, we find no weight reason to justify the use of this exceptionality, avoiding audiences and public information and thus making a much more transparent process, which is a subject that you talk about quite often. Socialists are also surprised that the text does not comply with the statement of the Galician Economic and Social Council. There is no such requirement as to justify both the Legal Counsel and the ESC itself on the basis that for this report it must be a prerequisite for draft laws governing socio-economic matters directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development and to have a direct link to Galicia's economic and social development. The justification of both the Legal Counsel and the ESC is that this report is not submitted because it does not meet the second requirement. For us, it is quite curious, since socialists understand that both the creation of a Galaga Forest Industry Agency and the repeal of Decree 104/2008, which regulates the procedure for the authorization of electrical power production facilities from the energy enhancement of forest biomass, or the modification of Title IV in interim urban management measures have an important impact on Galicia's economic development and social development. The Socialists believe that this is an inappropriate legislative technique, contrary to the speech of a tendency, of dialogue, of transparency and of a democratic quality which Mr Feijóo expresses in his speeches. It's hard to understand that, counting on an absolute majority of what you make out every time you go up this rostrum, you can't submit all these changes in the laws to a normal procedure. We don't understand this obscurantism or why to approve things by the back door. We believe that the parliamentary groups — the opposition groups — are here to debate and also to enrich. We also have the right to make contributions and some may be collected by the Government. You must not use your absolute majority to diminish, and even none, the role of the opposition. Democracy is much more than the right to vote: it is also to count on the opposition even if it has an absolute majority. [[Applause]] We do not agree with the substance either, since we tabled amendments to the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures, first of all, on the subject of civil service. In our amendments, what we are trying to do is to prevent the substantial amendment of the Public Employment Act in Galicia without the mandatory collective bargaining and the necessary debate of the Galician Parliament. I want to understand from your previous remarks that you referred to a one-year agreement with the unions, but it seems strange to us — I can't doubt it, of course, but it seems strange to us — that it is the unions themselves who have asked us for the amendments we tabled and even have made to the High Court of Justice. We believe that the accompaniment law on general budgets cannot be used to substantially modify laws which regulate matters of a general nature and which do not have a strictly direct relationship with the budgetary or financial field. General laws must be dealt with through the ordinary procedure of bills, which guarantee the necessary regular debate. We are faced with fraudulent use of legislative procedures. We also do not agree with the fact that for eight years we have not complied with the collective agreement for employees of the Galician administration and the repeated refusal to convene the function table in all categories, as it collects the agreement itself. What they're trying to do is to remove all of the functions of this personal to create categories that perform all kinds of functions. From the Socialist Group we do not know the real intention of this measure, which, from our point of view, is to atomize the service and create staff in different categories with the same functions, creating a new professional category called personal services with functions of all kinds. In contrast, we, in our amendments, seek to safeguard the participation of economic and social agents above all, strengthen the transfer and strengthen the role of Parliament and also prioritize the interests of the Greek strategic sectors. In the second additional provision, in vehicles authorized for the provision of transport service, our amendment aims at protecting rural taxis from large passenger transport companies, encouraging the work of taxis in rural areas and establishing it as a fundamental element of territorial cohesion in areas of dispersed and aged population. In Title IV, on urban management measures — which we believe is a matter of vital importance to all the Greek municipalities — it is intended to regulate urban management in municipalities which have the plan declared null by firm judicial judgment, by formal defects and/or non-substantial materials of the plan. We therefore believe that it is necessary to accommodate the agents who have to take an opinion on this matter, in this case the Greek municipalities and the Fegamp. It re-uses the law to substantially modify laws that regulate matters of a general nature. We also do not understand how, through an additional provision, if we intend to create the Greek forestry industry agency by granting it a clearly economical and productive approach without any rational, economical basis, for its creation. We also do not consider the fragmentation of basic research centres — or isolation, as you set out in the additional provision — inappropriate, since R & D+i is essential for achieving a critical mass in terms of human capital. The Socialists maintain that the primary sector is a strategic sector for Galicia, so we demand that priority should be given to ensuring the environmental sustainability of the rural environment vis-à-vis exclusively economic exploitation, since the forestry sector is much more than a production to feed the industry without taking into account social, productive, landscape and ecological considerations. We also call for environmental considerations on the social and territorial role of the mountain, for the necessary debate between the institutions, industry and the social fabric. The creation of this agency is done again in a fast, darker way, without knowing its content or its functions. Would it not be more serious to debate a law that had studied all aspects of the creation and development of this agency? To know why functions, competences and collaboration with the sector and consultations with all those affected. We do not understand, either, that it is intended to repeal Decree 149/2008, so the procedure for the authorisation of electrical power production plants is regulated from the energy use of primary forest biomass in the Autonomous Community. It seems that it is about opening the door to the establishment of large biomass plants which, we understand, can have a negative effect on the country's environmental balance which does not compensate for possible economic benefits. We are also curious that, through an additional fourth provision, if you intend to amend a law that you have passed just over two years ago, Law 3/2014 of the Consultative Council of Galicia, without knowing exactly what the reasons, the need and its modification without any kind of parliamentary participation are. The body of counsel of the Advisory Council is thus removed, which becomes part of the general administration's body of counsel and becomes self-appointed, and the General Secretariat will no longer be exercised by an official but will be exercised by a high office. Therefore, for all these considerations, our vote will be negative — as it could not be otherwise — because we believe that the various political options represented in this House are not respected, political quality is reduced, transparency is not opted for, and parliamentary debate is prevented by limiting the work of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u109	Good afternoon. At this point, spirits are a little lower. I wanted to speak first of parliamentary productivity — which is a term that the President of Parliament, since he is in office, repeats a lot. The President-in-Office of the European Parliament measures the quality of Parliament's weight, makes a number of accounts: the number of initiatives divided between Parliament's budget and says that we are doing very well. Comparably, then, it says it's the most productive Parliament, it's the most productive in the state. [[Murmurs.]] Well, that's the concept of this Parliament. In that case, and with that approach, what we're doing today is very productive. It's very productive because if you're giving the debate of twenty legislative texts and three decrees and I have twenty minutes: it's one minute for each legislative text and we still have the decrees. It's a maximum productivity. But we can be more productive and vote directly, too. That's right. That is a little the democratic and parliamentary conception of the Gürtel party. The Gürtel party, which also saw and read in the press statements by Mrs Prado, who I suppose will take care of this debate, said: "It's not the best legislative technique, but it's legal." Well, Mrs. Prado, I say it's passive: it's legal. But why don't you use the best legislative technique, Mrs. Prado? I also told Mrs. Prado that you talked to all the affected groups, very well. For Mrs Prado, what are the groups affected by the proposed urban changes? The real estate promoters?, the mayors?, the city councillors? Man, for us, it is all society, so we demand in the Law of the soil an open debate to society. What are the affected collectives, Counsellor, Mrs Prado, for urban change? What are the collectives affected by the transcendent changes in the Mountain Law? Are the Ence, the big companies?, or are the companies, but also the farmers, the farmers who live in rural areas, those who live in tourism, those who want to integrate tourism, the productive economy, the agriculture and the mountain into a quality system? We believe this second part. You already know what the collectives are affected by. Tell me which groups are affected by the amendment of the Mountain Law. We can also talk about the collectives affected by the changes, once more urgent, of the public transport system. What are these collectives affected by the changes in the public transport system, Gürtel party gentlemen? What are they? For you, of course, — which is why we have known in Operation Condor — are well-defined. [[Murmurs.]] Who are the affected groups?, companies that have benefited from their regulatory changes over all these years?, those are the groups that are applied? Not for us. I am a good example of the changes proposed by the public transport of this technique to conceal from society in general changes that do not want to be seen, that do not want to be debated and that respond to the particular interests or partisan interests of the failure of the People's Party. Uncover one of Vega Sicilia — whoever has them — and listen carefully because not everyone can have the necessary dialogue to make the rules. I don't know if I'm being brave or impertinent, but I'd pray for silence. [[Murmurs.]] Not everyone can have that necessary dialogue that some have — that is why systematic attention is needed on the dates indicated and that these bottles of Vega Sicilia, of more than 600 euros, which came to the leaders of the People's Party who had a decision-making capacity in matters of transport and which had their consequences, come to them on time. [[Murmurs.]] Not everyone can speak to the president of the Advisory Council to ask Mr Rueda to amend the Law on urgent public transport measures. They're always urgent. When we talk about transportation, they're always urgent. A law was made four months ago and now they're changing it through the back door. Mr. Costa Pillado... in fragrance. Costa Pillado, who here, in a commission, said that he knew nothing of the bottles of Vega Sicilia and the next day he declared himself accused of "improper fruit." One thing is to be Costa Pillado and another is what it costs to get away with the people, of course! It's the only reason Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijóo are not charged: because they're spared, because people in the same circumstances are charged. [[Murmurs.]] Article 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was inappropriate, was in force when, during those years, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda received, on time, gifts from companies that were subsequently benefited from regulatory amendments: Law 5/2009 of urgent measures of public transport; Resolution of 26 February 2010 of the Plan to Modernize Public Transport; Law 10/2016 of four months ago, of urgent measures of public transport; and now, in the accompanying law, to avoid compliance with the Supreme Court's judgement, because we made a law to him as much as they gave him wine bottles. Article 422 of the Criminal Code states as a criminal offence: "The public authority or official who, for his own benefit or a third party, admitted, by himself or by an alleged person, a gift or gift that was offered to him in consideration of his position or function, shall be liable to imprisonment from six months to one year and suspension of employment and public office from one to three years." Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Rueda and Mr. rapporteur of the Transport Act — Juan Fajardo's companion, who I think did not receive a bottle — did you receive this for being a friend of Mr. Raúl Lopez or for the position he was holding? [[Murmurs.]] I think this would require an explanation. And this isn't about trial, we're talking about politics. You don't think citizens deserve an explanation that these people were getting these kind of gifts while making decisions that favored laws. I think so, which deserves an explanation; a democratic explanation, at least. I mean, change now without time to debate, without time to inform the entire citizen that will be affected by these changes in transport, to circumvent the fulfilment of that judgment. Even with these changes you can already modernise and change services, even if they are not bided again. In the same way, we also need to have a necessary dialogue when we talk about urbanism, because if you miss these changes in public transport, if you smell Vega Sicilia, that of urbanism also smells something like that. I mean, we passed early in 2016 a law defined by Mrs. Beatriz Mato as historical. She spoke, and spoke in her own memory of the budgets, that her objectives were to complete the urban management process of the territory of Galicia, promoting the participation of citizenship in it. And the best way to encourage the participation of citizenship in it is to do so in the Accompanying Law, modifying twenty laws at a time and with a time of interventions of twenty minutes. Is that the best form of citizen participation that happens to Mrs. Beatriz Mato? The lady who voted in favour of the privatization of the land of the Harbour Authority of the Crown, by the way. You also said: We have a firm commitment to seek the greatest consensus in the process of this law, since it is a law that needs stability for its good management of the future. You've already seen stability! Look, Counselor, I know that in these things, as we must speak of twenty laws, we cannot know at all. I wanted to ask you where you come from that you can only approve parts or adapt parts. I don't see him anywhere of the law. What this law says in Article 89 is: It will not be necessary to adapt the provisional management instruments to Law 2/2016 of Galician soil, and in any case to apply in accordance with its transitional provisions according to the date of final approval of the cancelled management instrument and the legislation to which it was adapted, which will be expressly indicated in the provisional management. Do you know what this means? It means that ten months ago a law of historic soil was passed, which would give stability. A de facto change of law has already been made to Vigo's PXOM a week ago! And now the second modification is made in fact, ten months later, and still scouring the creek to fail to meet or not to adapt to the approved Land Law ten months ago. That's a rhizo! I mean, now what you do is that you don't even have to adapt to Law 2/2016. You'll tell me where it's said that only parts can be adapted. And it's just that you, once again, act in urbanism the coup d'est judgment and the coup d'état of making suits. In this case the detonator was the annulment of Ourense's provisional urban planning to make a suit to Mr. Jesús Vázquez. An approved general municipal management plan when Mr. Feijóo was counsellor at COTOP; an interim urban planning board approved when Mr. Feijóo was president of the Galician Council; a mayor of Ourense was unable to carry forward a general municipal management plan, and then what we do is: in a judgment that annuls provisional urban planning, make a law to circumvent compliance with the sentence. And of course, as this has so much legal certainty — as the Counsellor has said — we let those who definitely approve this and therefore meet the risk of property claims that may exist, be the Town Councils. There's that dead man left! That's what you do with urbanism: opacity, lack of transparency, improvisation, suits the measure. Everything you preach is the opposite of what you preach. But here's a fact: two transcendental changes in ten months. Or the Mountain Law. Where is the debate needed in this country to have a new forest model that creates value, creates jobs, with the enormous potential that we have? For you here make changes to the Law of the Mountains, and not minor, and in the wrong way; in order to continue with this impoverishing model for the country. We are a power, however, because there is no one in Europe who has the conditions for producing Galician biomass, but we produce low-value species that create little employment. That's what any expert says, either left, right or center. And you, instead of improving the quality of the species on the already planted surface and avoiding further reducing the useful agrarian surface, so necessary in this country to balance that food balance, because we have to allocate nearly EUR 1 billion to buy food outside that we don't produce here, a real dissipation depending on the public interest!, you in this law allow forested areas to be expanded, allow you to apply the Mountain Law and forest-uses in undelimited urbanizable soil, for example. More surface, more species, even not meeting the approved forestry model! The few planning tools you now have to do with them, because they're talking about a good practice guidance model. That's not the way! That's not the way to create wealth and employment in the forest sector in this country. You create a Galician forest infrastructure agency, neither is it a minor matter to get into a law, and you override what has already been said here: the Royal Decree 149/2008, which eliminates the limit of the ten megawatts. For you the model and go to the production of power based on biomass from large power plants? Is that the model? That's the bad model for the country, bad model for creating jobs and value, and also eco-friendly. But you put it in a law of accompaniment, they don't give the debate about the ordinary process, so that at least the different positions can be seen, so that people are informed. They're changing the transcendental issues of our territorial management model. They change the Agrarian Structure Improvement Act, too, recently approved. And they put something that seems to be of little importance, which is Article 60, and they allow that in cores where the 100 inhabitants do not have to respect the distances set out in the basic state health regulations of the swine industry. Do you know how many population nuclei don't reach the 100 inhabitants, Counselor? 27,000 in this country. In those 27,000 nuclei, they're not going to be because they respect the distances when it comes to locating an intensive pig industry. Besides, do you think these sanitary distances get vice-adjusted? I don't think so. Do you think this is good for integrating productive, economic, tourist and quality of life in rural areas in rural areas? We don't think so! I don't have much more time. Clearly, it was what they were looking for. We don't have time to talk about such important issues as the Public Employment Act. For something else, the workers and workers of the Social Services Department would also be showing up here. Since they talked to the collectives, they must have forgotten. We bet that any modification of this kind is based on and after a negotiation with the workers' representatives. Finally, zero taxes in rural areas, Counsellor, fiscal policy. You see how much this is translated from the zero tax in rural areas, which gives you so much for so many speeches: in 2.3 million euros! That's your big bet this year on the Tax Law. Of course, no bet on progressiveity and greater justice in taxation. In short, this law is a democratic fraud: issues that have nothing to do with budgets; issues that are beneficial to certain interests, such as the case of certain public transport companies that are being benefited, when we all know what targets they had in their delivery of gifts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u111	Legislative amendments resulting from the continued failures of the People's Party in urbanism. Laws that don't want to be taught, like the amendment of the Mountain Law, because they only benefit a few companies, and that's a democratic fraud for us. We are not going to the Council of State or the Consultative Council or the Economic and Social Council. It's a democratic fraud. These urban laws: Mountain Law, Public Employment Law, the modification of transport, had to be debated here in an ordinary debate, which had time to debate, to expose positions and for people to be filled. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u112	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. As for productivity, it's a concept that needs to be clarified because it also benefits you. I'm talking about Parliament more efficient, because I'm talking about what we're doing at the lowest cost. But I'm not calculating the cost of an initiative, I'm talking about the cost of a Member, and that benefits us and benefits you, that clear concept. And happy to meet you, today you are to greet you. I use to tell you. Mrs. Prado, your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that we are many of the jurists who are part of this House, and we did not need to study a subject of opposition to the judge in order to know and respect the general principles of the Right, both in the proceedings of a small people's education trial and a procedure that is under the cover of summary in the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. I recommend to you, Mr. Sánchez, that you read an interview with Mr. Villares who said there were no privileges for the fugitives at the High Court of Justice in Galicia. I don't know if they've changed their mind, but I share Mr. Villares' opinion. From what I see, you're from the only way they don't talk to us is what the legal-existent or procedural situation of Mr. Martiño Noriega's investigator is, of course, under the cover of summary. But just as other procedures that are under the cover of summary deserve an explanation, so does that deserve an explanation, Mr. Sánchez. You judge the judge already tried, judge the archival, judge what's under trial, but when you play the judge of the house, or it's laudable prevarication, birthday parties apart — I'm not talking about yours, I'm talking to others — or it's under summary secrecy. Look, Mr. Sánchez, to unearth bottles of Vega Sicilia we have to go to Madrid along with Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, who, as you know, received some when she was mayor of the Council of Ferrol. Look, I, actually, suppose that deserves an explanation, and of course, we don't think that Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, mayor of the Ferrol Town Hall that day, or any high office that gets a bottle of wine, is going to change a law or a concession for very expensive bottles of wine. The truth is, since 2005, the third Monday of January is considered by some as the worst day of the year, the so-called Blue Monday, although some consider that the saddest day of the year does not exist as such, the truth is, after all the debates we have today, the truth is, I'm starting to think that it's really possible. I don't know if — as these pseudo-scientific studies have said — this is the fruit of some who have already failed the New Year's proposals: they haven't participated in the gym, they haven't enrolled in English classes and they haven't quit smoking, and now they come here showing their frustration and painting with their speech a sad, gray Galicia and a government that doesn't look for her. But to get out of the way, ladies and gentlemen, because we put things together, we do some group therapy, we put different points of view on the table, and maybe we change our mind: you're about that world so black you see, and we're about that world so fantastic that you say you see, when it's not. We're aware that there's still a lot to change. We're aware that there's still a lot of people who are going through it. And that's exactly why I think this law is important. It's important because it changes a lot of important issues for the Greeks and the Greeks, a lot of issues that will solve a lot of problems. And we're here to solve people's problems; at least the members of the People's Party think so. Mrs. Rodríguez, you have been very critical, just like Mrs. Rodil, with this legal instrument. I have said and I continue to say that it is probably not the best instrument of legislative technique, but to say, as you said, that it is not legal or non-democratic, that we have stolen the debate... I think that the debate is being held today, and we will give many more debates, because the debate on the presentation remains and the committee remains. Don't worry that we're going to debate everything you need to debate, because I think it's good for everyone and enriching. The Constitutional Court has also expressed itself on the accompanying laws, and it says that any matter, which no object exists, from a constitutional point of view, which prevents or restricts the incorporation into a single legislative text, for its joint processing in a single procedure, of numerous normative measures of a heterogeneous nature. There are several judgments in this sense, but I insist, even if it's not the best legislative technique, you're also frank and say it's legal and constitutional. But in any case, what is surprising is that there are other autonomous communities that are using it, in which you rule, and it turns out that you there approve them and defend them. The law of Cantabria amends 15 laws with votes in favour of the Socialist Party and We can. In Aragon it amends 31 rules with PSOE's favourable vote, Podemos, Left United and the Chunta Aragonesista. The Generalitat amends 23 laws; PSOE, Podemos and Commitments voted in favour. And the one that carries the palm is the Law of measures of the Valencian Community, which amends 32 laws, a decree and an order; from the Law of pet animals to transparency, Mrs. Rodríguez, because as you saw here saying many of those who changed this law of measures, I recommend that you look at all these laws, because, well, I already tell you, from the Law of pet animals to the Law of transparency, going through land management, sport, water, game, television... lots of them. Well, maybe you should talk to the counsellor in Valencia and tell him that the law was necessary to meet the peremptory needs. The truth is, just as it is necessary to meet the perennial needs in Valencia, in Galicia we also have perennial needs. Mrs. Pontón, I understand that you might have liked to be in the debate, but you've had your moment of glory this morning and now you've got Mrs. Rodil. After listening to you, anyone would say that the law has entered Parliament with nocturnalness and through the back door, and that we have stolen a debate that is now democratic and legally taking place. The issues that are included in the law are discussed with the same light and tachographs as the Budgets Act we also debate this morning with light and tachographs. And look, Mrs. Rodil, since the law entered Parliament on December 3rd, that is, a month and a half ago, all parliamentary groups had time to analyze it, study it, amend it, and this month and a half I suppose that just as we, you, have received collectives, unions and entities that have shown them their needs, their concerns, and now they can, we can and do, take some of their suggestions in the form of amendment. The content of this law, mostly, comes from the essence of budgeting, is a complementary law to the Budget Law, beginning with the fall of taxes in rural areas, which will have as direct beneficiaries — as the counselor told you — numerous families, people with disabilities, young people and girls, and indirectly all Greeks and Greeks. Because without rural, ladies and gentlemen, there's no Galicia. And if others change, it's very funny for you, Mrs. Pontón. I understand that you don't think it's important for you to lower taxes in rural areas, in the transactions of documented legal acts, in the purchase of housing, in the movement of lands and others, but it's done to fix population, it's done to give a boost to rural people and to many other issues that we'll gradually tell them if you haven't noticed. I said the BNG, in its amendment to its entirety, that a change is made and that the co-financing of the services provided by the German consortium is introduced unilaterally. No, Mrs. Rodil, it's not unilaterally, it's committed to the Fegamp. Of course, I understand that some people do Pfff...!, and I don't know why they do Pfff...!, but the truth is, to me, Fegamp inspires seriousness and trust, and that's what's governed by you. If it was governed by the PP, they would say it's a pastry shop between the PP of the Government of the Union and the government of the Fegamp, but, of course, it's governed and presided over by you. Therefore, without obscurantism and without being by the back door. This law also adopts issues that allow for government commitments that affect thousands of people, such as the process of functionalization of workers, which will promote the job and professional stability of staff, both the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Service and the Equality and Welfare Consortium, and it is surprising to listen to you when these agreements were signed... Of course, Mrs. Rodil, also at the General Public Employees' Bureau was at IGC, Workers' Commissions, UXT and CESIF, and there was no opacity. It's not true that the trade union organizations did not participate in the agreements, you know that's not the case. Then we got hit by voters and content gaps. What do you propose now? They propose a different process that delays the adoption of these agreements and, therefore, would delay thousands of jobs to have stability in their jobs and better expectations for the development of work. They speak in their amendments to the whole... I cannot refer to anything at all because time is limited, we will already have time in the debate of law and presentation. But I'll mention some specific questions. I know you don't like it, but, Mrs. Santos, look, I say "We can" tides, you had to be happy, because that's how we can be in the debate. In fact, it is surprising that there are seven Members and that not one Member of We can participate today in one of the budget debates or the Action Act. One of the most important debates in this Parliament, along with the debate on the state of autonomy and we can't be in the debate. So, thank you for saying the Tides of Podemos, because we included them in the debate. [[Applause]] He said you and BNG both say there's no fiscal policy. For I will tell you that yes, indeed there is, that the budget tax incentive programme does not cover only the fiscal measures this year, that do not derogate from the year 2016 and that, in addition, they are maintained, and are perfectly detailed and quantified in the General Budget I Memory, in paragraph 2.1.3, fiscal benefit budget for the year 2016. The Galician Union will increase by 7% next year's tax benefits, and tax benefits are not just what joins the Union, but they are also the ones that the Union no longer perceives to return to citizens. In 2017, Junta will apply tax rebates of EUR 391 million; EUR 391 million that will remain in the Greeks and the Greeks and will not go to Galicia. I therefore understand that these are social tax benefits that will be shared between the families of Galicians and Greeks. Other issues which have been raised here in the fisheries sector, on the amendments to the aquaculture law, I would like to say, Your Honor, that 80% of aquaculture aid is intended for the mexillary sector, bats. No, we're not going to sell the beaches to the Chinese. Don't worry that we're not going to sell the beaches to the Chinese. That's what you've said in the coastal areas, you've got everything left, people have voted what they have to vote for, and they've voted for the representatives they wanted to have and not for those who told them such barbarities. [[Applause]] In any case, on the issues of experimental aquaculture concessions, which are extended from three to five years, you know that most of these concessions are in the hands of confrereries and associations in the sector. It is a matter of giving sufficient time for the development of experience and providing them with the same time frame to meet the experience of granting European aid, which requires a minimum of five years of activity development. Then you talk about raising taxes, that's yours. All right, the We can tides also propose to increase the types of IRPF to higher incomes. And what increases do they propose? And what do you rent? They don't stay in New Language, Mr. Sánchez, that's what George Orwell invented in 1984. You and your simplistic solutions, which have no clear or concrete concepts. You are more of thinking, chaste, ruling for most, democratizing the economy, the below, the powerful, the highest incomes, the common people... yes, no...!, commendable prevarication, all these things, but all this is framed in the process. And what's the process? Well, it doesn't mean anything. What does the process mean? It doesn't mean anything, because as it's worth everything, it can mean anything, even maintaining centrality in the process and space. Yes, it takes everything in 140 characters, it's fundamental! So look, your proposal in tax matters, empty set. Meaning empty, meaningful empty. They don't even tell who that climb would apply or explain how to carry it out. Why? Because so they don't bother anyone, they say what sounds good: the powerful, the rich, the upstairs, the common people. And then that change in the IRPF tariff that also proposes the Galego Nationalist Block, which speaks of progressiveness on different recording scales, would have a different impact on each territory. And look! because maybe it would cause the opposite effect of what you're trying to sell, because it could affect your work income, and we're talking about 85% of tax bases corresponding to your work income. The truth is it's a great manifestation of wealth. He won't give me more time to talk about those issues. I'm going to close up with a question that I think is important, and it's because you criticize this law but you don't have a serious and rigorous alternative model. You make proposals with simple solutions that don't go anywhere. I read these days the criticisms made by a member of the opposition, specifically Mrs Rodríguez, who said that they were here to contribute and enrich the rules and not simply to provide them. Well, if we analyze their amendments, the amendments to the opposition in general, we find ourselves with something surprising. After what's happened in the years of crisis, you didn't learn anything about the mistakes that led to her and continue with the fear of predicting unreal income. I remind you that the Greeks and the Greeks are still paying for the 2,000 million euros that you painted in the last budget of the Galician Union you ruled. I'm actually hoping they'll pay more attention to their next interventions, because you guys have a magic box...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u115	...that they draw money without any kind of rigor, definition, realistic prediction or justification, from which 18 million euros would come from the tax of shopping centers that don't explain what it's going to be like, or 4 of the tides of Podemos. BNG is a little bit more optimistic, it aims to raise 30 million euros, but well, also because it knows the sector better, because the highest number of shopping centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u117	... opened in Galicia under the government of the BNG and the Industry Council. Well, neither magic boxes nor empty sets. The People's Party has proven these years of government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u119	...that does things prudently, rigorously, and hard on reality; that we spend no more than we go in, we meet the deficit and we pay the debt. And we will continue on this path because it was recognized by the Greeks and the Greeks on September 25, Mrs. Pontón. Because Galicia has been good to him and we want him to be better. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica roll. Amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u121	Let's go in part, see if I'm able to answer some of the questions that have been coming out and maybe score others. With regard to the legality of this legislative model, this omnibus law as it has been spoken, of course, legal will be and it is, and nobody questions it, Mrs Prado! Already in his speech the counselor himself opened the intervention saying precisely that they counted this type of legislative modalities with the rights of Justice, perhaps a little to heal in health, knowing that this would be the main criticism we launched from the opposition bench. Legally it will be, but here it is necessary to evaluate not only the legality of the things that are done, but the relevance of them to be done, and, above all, the ways in which they are used to carry them out. And you will understand that reforming 21 laws into a single legislative instrument, and that the debate we have — as you have already said here — in this respect, with regard to the whole debate, is fifteen minutes in a first intervention, which we almost — at least for my own side — drown in trying to synthesize the points that we understand most important, and five minutes of replica which, as you see, are almost exhausted, does not seem the best way to give a serious debate, a calm debate and, above all, when you are talking about matters of such magnitude, which will ultimately reverse in the daily lives of all the people we live and work in this country. What is the clear alternative we stand for from the Galician Nationalist Block? It would be an ordinary treatment for those legal amendments, or at least those matters that had to be properly incorporated into this accompanying law were supported in a real urgency, not as in some of the cases of those that were speaking at the beginning, in my first intervention, because what you perceive of their processing by this way — which we would say expressly — is to give them exit or solution, through patches, to the conflicts that have been generated — we see — only one or a year and a half after certain laws have been passed. In relation to the drop in taxes, or the zero taxes in rural areas, of what is drawn from both the breast and the only formula for ensuring the permanence of the population living in rural population centres, that would be good if the economic activities dedicated to rural population guaranteed the viability of a quality and dignity of life in those spaces. Because, of course, when you don't get there by the end of the month what gives you a dairy farm, what gives you a beef holding or a rabbit beef holding -- and I'm talking about particular cases because my father is a cuniculator -- because it's hard for the decision to stay in those rural areas to be formulated in the face of a statement of income. The same as when it is often suggested that the birth rate is going to increase by that, for a reflection that we do at the time of making the income statement. Instead, what we find is that every time the services go down, and that's a reality. You said we had time -- all this time -- to go to the localities, to the comarcas, and to test what was the impression that the neighborhood also had about a lot of things. Well, I'm putting a case before you, to open up future debates about pediatric services in rural and mountain Lugo. We may ensure that quality services, such as child health care in our rural areas, guarantee more survival, permanence and population fixation in those areas that lower taxes or do not pay for certain issues. In relation, for example, to the large surface taxes, which we see that it is prote and rends so much and we have not just known too well why, it is true that the Nationalist Block in Wales has much to say about this because it governs — in addition to many years — in the only city in this country that does not have a large area of commerce, and this has enabled and allowed it to develop a model of local trade that is well viable, accompanied, moreover, by an urban model that is often recognized and awarded internationally. Just take advantage of these 40 seconds that remain of this vast and calm—we have no doubt—the discussion of the Accompaniment Act in relation to the negotiating tables in the reforms that apply in the civil service. At the negotiating tables, first, you have to be willing to listen and to be able to reach agreements, and for that, you have to bring and bring information to union organizations. It's not worth trying to reach agreements there without any previous information, as you'll see at those negotiating tables; or trade union organizations that got up before they were finished, and others even submitted judicial demands because what they're doing they understand doesn't meet the legality. We reiterate what we said at the beginning. It doesn't look like a shape to us. It will be all the legal ones they want, to use these explicit legislative models and omnibus law, but we understand that it doesn't proceed, that it's not transparent, and what it reflects is a lot of opacity and, above all, a lot of desire to make the decision but, above all, to hide the skate so that it doesn't look too well what is going to be done in this accompanying law. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u122	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that I'm a novice in this House and I haven't had a long time, but it's that every time you ask them about something, about some matter, that we understand it's important — or it might be less important, but we understand that practically everything you're taking here is important — you tell us what you're doing in other administrations. Look, I come here to debate what Galicia is up to and about the documents and the bill presented to us for the parliamentary debate, not the one outside. I'm not interested, whenever we ask, always the same explanation. So I don't think it's the right thing to do. [[Applause]] Anyway, just as the Bipartite is quite a resort for you, I'm going to tell you one thing. When Emilio Pérez Touriño was ruling, a socialist president who also went to this House continuously, there was no law accompaniment, therefore, if we have another way to process the laws and other way of ruling other than you. [[Applause]] You, Mrs Paula, tell us that approving these laws is fundamental to meeting peremptory needs. The truth is, I'm a little bit left -- let me get the license -- flipped, because, remembering the text again, I don't see anything that can be to meet these perennial needs; perennial needs where others that you're not paying attention, but none of them have so much urgency that you can't deal with a normal procedure. The first law of transparency — it also bothers you that I speak of transparency — was also adopted — I insist — with a socialist government, with Emilio Pérez Touriño; Law 4/2006, with transparency and good practice. By the way, by your Law 1/2016, of transparency and good government, that in some things is a little bit more opaque than the previous one, which is quite curious. What we ask of the Socialists is that, if you apply the laws that you pass in this House, if you have a law of transparency, apply it, and apply transparency to all of this. Let us remember, every time they leave here — now Mr. Tellado isn't here, but I'm sure some of the others — that they have an absolute majority. Look, nothing else to go in there, we see it, you don't have to remind us. But we also represent someone in this House, and what we ask is respect and that we be taken into account, and for that is the parliamentary debate, only and exclusively. [[Applause]] I also insist that I do not understand when you say that changes in public service are changes requested by the workers themselves to fix — I am perhaps not being textual — certain imbalances, when the unions themselves ask us to present these amendments; when they turn to the High Court of Justice for the lack of negotiation of measures that affect public employees, which is quite sad that there is no even negotiation. Once again in its absolute majority, today's going to approve it the same way, but at least listen to us, work with them, at least give us a chance to give us something. Nor can I when we see the workers of the Social Policy Council, who are protesting in front of Parliament today. So I don't exactly match your words. I urge you, what we ask is that you be clearer; that you give us the opportunity; that you respect this House, the diversity, the plurality we have; that you give us a voice and give us a vote. And we believe that this way of processing is a democratic retreat, diminishing political and legal quality and limiting the work of impulse and quality. So what we ask you to do is to process it in laws that are exclusive to each of these subjects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u125	Good afternoon again. Mrs. Prado, today is not a sad day, precisely not today, because today they have just renounced the complaint to Diego Lores, a social activist from Vigo who, fortunately, will not have to run the risk of going to jail for defending the majority of society. And agreeing with that, another good news, that they arrested the former directors of the Greek savings boxes. So it's too far from being a sad day. Those ex-directors who used to take pictures. Everyone escapes. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado spoke of the suburbs and privileges. I didn't say anything, I didn't say anything about it, I didn't say anything. I just said that if they weren't sheltered, Mr. Rueda would be charged, because other people in the same circumstances had to declare themselves accused. That's what I'm saying. I didn't talk about privileges or privileges. And what I'm asking here is whether there is a connection between receiving bottles of Vega Sicilia in 2009 and 2014 and regulatory decisions on public transport that have been taken and benefited from the particular company, even failing to comply with the European regulation and now wanting to fraudulently violate the Supreme Court's ruling annulling 129 concessions, even providing companies with the ability to modify services without re-aligning these services. That's what I was asking. You, of course, had no arguments, for you came here kicking in the canyons. If you take out Martine Noriega, Martine Noriega was known, and he was well known, for giving gifts. Even if they weren't "of sacrifice," he also returned them, that's the difference. And we can call ourselves the Tides of Podemos or whatever they want, to pass the argument. [[Applause]] What do you want me to call them, Gürtel's party, Punica, Pokémon's party, Pikachu's party, what do you want? I have a choice, Mrs. Prado. You are the party of [...] What do you want them to be called? [[(The President-in-Office of the Council, in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, removes this expression.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u126	Not that expression, Mr. Sánchez, that expression is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u127	It is the [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u128	No, no, I don't agree because I belong to that party and I don't agree with it. Then you either remove that expression, or I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u129	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u130	I'll take it back and have a call to order, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u131	It's the party that had, for twenty-five years, accountants who had the office next to the secretary general, who carried the billing in B, who collected from companies that soon helped works, etc., and had 49 million euros in Switzerland. I'm the Punic party, I'm the Gürtel party, etc. I am not the party of the [...] — I take it back — they are incompatible with corruption, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[(The President-in-Office of the Council, in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, removes this expression.)]] And of course, zero taxes in rural. With the outcome that their policies have been caused in rural areas, we now have to applaud them because they take a measure that, in principle, the impact is 2.3 million euros. Home! this, of course, does not compensate for the loss of the dairy sector, the loss of agricultural holdings; it does not compensate for aging, it does not compensate for abandonment and does not make up for even — it does not even — it does not matter! — the rise that the Gürtel party is applying to rural Galicia, for example, the taxation of immovable property, whose collection — restless!, but quiet! — they have 41 Members, calm, nothing! — simply the catastrophe that you are already committing is ten times greater than those 2.3 million. That's right, propaganda does a lot. If the tax, Mrs. Prado, of course, we put in an IRPF modification table, what else do you want? No, we didn't come to talk, we put a table. He may like it or not, but we put a table. Of course, your fiscal policy is not what you were talking about. Of course, tax benefits are all social, Mrs. Prado. All have social benefits. I think no, I think a social tax policy is the one that charges those who have the most and uses it to make redistribution policies. The tax benefit itself is not social, Mrs. Prado. Finally, Counselor, you use the Accompanying Law fraudulently. It is a democratic fraud to have to debate here transcendent changes that affect land management issues such as the Law of Improvement of Agricultural Structures, the Law of Mountains, Urbanism, Urban Planning, the Law of Public Employment, etc., and to do it from behind people, without doing so by ordinary procedure, without time to debate, so that you will wear as much as you're going to put us down more in transport because they're breaking the European regulation again; they're putting us more into urbanism, but they're embracing the particular damage of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u133	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u134	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. The debate is closed. [[The councillor of Fairy pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Oh, don't you want to? Give up the subject. Perfect. If you quit, perfect. Voting of amendments to the draft law on tax, administrative and management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u135	We proceed to the votes without further notice. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 2495), to the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia (Doc. # 2532), to the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of En Marea (Doc. # 2533), to the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-16-DSPG011.u136	And the session ends here because the agenda items have been run out. Good night, everyone.
