ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with agenda item 6, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. We started with an inclusive debate that corresponds to the questions of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the assumption of responsibilities for the collapse of the Greek financial system Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the attitude of the Italian Government towards the protection of small savers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u2	It begins by asking the question the representative of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u3	So for a matter of order that has to do with precisely what you are announcing right now and which means the accumulation of two questions from two different groups during the debate of the control session. I have transferred it to you personally, and I also want you to record today in this House, our deep disagreement with this procedure, which clearly means diverting the sense of the control session, and trapping the debate times for the benefit of Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo. We, of course, would ask you and the president to respect that at the only moment that we have during the month of being able to speak directly to Alberto Núñez Feijó this does not deviate, and, above all, that if the president wants to come to do accumulated shifts and an appearance, because we would ask him to appear, which seems very good to us that the president comes in, but we think that the precise sense of control sessions is a debate of "you" rather than what you're going to do, trampling the rules of play.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u5	In the same sense. As I have also addressed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to the Presidency and to you before, I would like to express our inconsistencies in the form of accumulation, which we understand improperly for the same reasons that have just been exposed here. We are before a debate, at one point, which is crucial in parliamentary life, before a question being put to the President of the Government, which can be assumed from different approaches and which therefore deserves separate treatment; separate treatment, which we therefore demand here in parliamentary office on the occasion of this plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u6	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Any more intervention? Thank you. [[Refusal.]] For I am applying Regulation 78.2 and Article 59.1: when two questions are related, there must be only one answer. Procedural economy, I think we should make it clear. There are many examples of accumulation in this Parliament. No, no, I'm sorry, that's covered by the Rules of Procedure. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] There's a lot of history of accumulating questions, and they come to my mind now, because, as I am the most veteran, because I remember a lot of accumulations, and there was never a problem: about abortion, about hepatitis, about textbooks... I have that very clear. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] In any case, this president has no drawback in which, if all the groups agree, the Rules of Procedure are changed and the rules of procedure are deleted, which is prohibited from accumulating the questions. If all groups are placed... No, the debate seems to be closed. No, no, I said, "if you agree." Yes, that's why I say, but that there is no such power, that there is no such thing. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's over. Let's go to the questions. The questions are going to be put now and, in any case, we can see. Therefore, you, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo, begin with the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u7	Thank you very much, President. I would like, of course, our opinion to be taken into account, not that this is anecdote. In any case, let's get to the point. Mr. Feijóo, I don't know if you see this coin in my hands. In case you don't distinguish it, I tell you, that's 1 euro; 1 euro which for the common mortals doesn't even give us for a coffee, but which came to Ana Botín to do with the remains of the Greek financial system, putting in your shopping basket the People's Bank-pastor, with a euro. 1 euro with which the bank wins and loses Galicia. [[Applause]] And what have we lost, Mr. Feijóo? We definitely lost a bicentennial entity, we lost a point of support for pemes and families, we lost because there are 60,000 bank- and government-run savers and we lost because there are more than 1,000 direct jobs at stake. When you came to Galician Union, here they existed: New Box, Galician Box, Galician Bank, Pastor's Bank. There's nothing left. This is another merit that you can write in your excellent curriculum as president of the Galician Union: the liquidation of the Greek financial system, which would not be possible without its complicity. And for once, I ask you not to be profiled; this isn't a competition problem, it's a problem of incompetence. In the same frame, Catalonia and Euskadi have maintained La Caixa and Kutxa, evident proof that it is not a competition problem, it is a problem of incompetence. I suppose, because this is already a classic of these control sessions, which in your reply will return to us with the litany that we are all guilty less of you, because, of course, it's only been nine years comfortably installed on Mount Pio. But the truth is, the end of this chronicle could be written differently. It was possible to avoid the absorption of the Pastor, because it is clear that it was a bad decision, but they did not; it could be avoided the fall of the People's Bank, suspending the exchange quote, as later they did with Liberbank three days later, but they did not; and it could be prevented that 60,000 savers and savers have to return to the judges claiming the savings of their lives. But they didn't, and they have to explain why. They have to assume their responsibilities, because the banking scam has already cost us more than 60 billion euros, seven times more the budget of the Galician Union, and the bank problem is still there. And I'm telling you the truth: what's not received is that you're sending this matter out with tears of crocodile at the exit of a board of directors and asking for sensitivity to Banco Santander. That's like asking a wolf not to kick the sheep. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we demand you not to take any more of your hair, we demand you to assume your responsibilities, because there is a lot at stake for this country and for many people who can lose their savings and their jobs. And that's why I'm asking you if you're going to do something, if you're going to assume your responsibilities, or if you're just going to come here to justify a new banking scam, a new scam to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, the liquidation of the Pastor-Popular Bank is the epitaph of the Greek financial system; a 250-year-old Greek entity, which resisted the 1929 crack, a civil war, two world wars, the franchisor dictatorship, and was unable to withstand nine years of the Feijó era. We saw the final phase of a system, a process of concentration of financial power, decided by the big bank, which reduces real competition in the sector. Furthermore, it produces the centralization of financial power, which was previously reduced and distributed in autonomous communities, such as ours, by means of savings boxes. This has pursued a double objective: of a group, a political one, to bring out autonomous communities a fundamental tool for promoting economic development, and, on the other hand, to eliminate a strong competitor for banks. Thus, with the limitation of the boxes, the financial economy was eliminated, the autonomy of the Autonomous Community and an obstacle to the expansion of the banks. The public bank, which exists in many liberal countries around us, is a guarantee of the diversity of the Greek financial ecosystem, and made cuts to the burning greed of the banks. Where was the PP to defend that financial diversity? Even a liberal like Aguirre defended Bankia's public character. Once the public bank was uprooted, it had to end now with the few remaining financial diversity. Banco Santander is the eucalyptus of the Greek financial system, ended with diversity and impoverishes the territory. A despondent landscape. But besides, we're not in the face of one more breakdown, we're in the presence of a policeman; it's enough to see the agony of the bank, subjected to speculative attacks that have ended up sinking it, in markets where the rumors of sinking involve sinking. The questions that arise are obvious: why did the leadership of the People's Bank not take measures prior to the liquidity situation? Why didn't the regulators avoid speculative attacks on the stock markets on the bank, as they did on Liberbank? Couldn't they suspend the exchange rate to avoid zeroing the value of their shares, as they did on their day with Bankia too? Why did the European monetary authorities say that the entire Spanish bank exceeded the bank stress test? Where was the Banco de España? Any president concerned about his country would be questioning the answer to these questions, but Mr Feijóo is a meek and silent president, as he has already shown with state budgets, with the deadlines of the AVE and with the transfer of AP-9. Mr. Feijóo, what is your question regarding the Pastor's case? None, because you've always been a lot of eucalyptus. Why didn't he do anything? Why didn't anyone do anything? Because the operation was going to lead to Banco Santander staying with the Pastor. Behind this operation there is no bank, there is a vulture, because the bank Santander is neither bank nor Santander. Santander's largest shareholder is an American investment fund called Blackrock, and Santander's business figure in the state reaches only 12% of the total. The Pastor-Popular Bank had a financial policy of access to credits to families and pemes that dynamized the Greek economy, was part of its ecosystem, and, on the contrary, Santander will turn the country into a great financial eucalyptal. Santander exploits the bank as Junta exploits the mountain: from back to back to people; the business of a few at the expense of the majority, causing damage throughout the country. In addition, there was a scam with this operation, just as it happened with the preferences: 65% of small shareholders have less than 3,000 euros invested in shares, small shareholders who are cheated; 65,000 Greeks and Greeks who trusted office agents, but above all they trusted a stock market regulator and a bank in Spain that said banks were healthy. What do you think we should deal with this massive scam? 'I'll finish.' The social situation for Galicia is very serious. With this policy, the entire Greek financial system disappears. The purchase of the Pastor for the Popular has already caused the loss of jobs, and there are no more people to pre-empt, and this in a sector that has already been hit by the crisis, since in the last eight years it has lost 36% of the offices and 6,000 workers. Did you calculate the drama, in terms of employment, that this is going to suppose? In 113 municipalities, repeated offices of Banco Pastor and Banco Santander. Did you calculate the loss of employment that this means? The difficulty in accessing banking offices by the rural population is called financial exclusion. Do you know what will increase the financial exclusion of rural people? In conclusion: unemployment, closure of offices, financial exclusion, end of social work, difficulties in access to pemes and families. You on whose side you are? The diversity or the eucalyptal? On the side of Galician citizenship or on the side of a family called Botín himself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u10	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Your time is up. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to talk seriously about this matter, I will, of course, do it. At least it would be essential to contextualize a situation; the situation of the financial system in Galicia, Spain, Europe and much of the Western world. We have experienced an unprecedented crisis in recent years in these financial systems that has caused credit institutions to disappear all over the world. Tens of banks broke down and we also lost thousands of jobs around the world. In addition, in other cases the need to make great adjustments to the losses of financial institutions, and, in many countries, a bank rescue with public funds, to which you were, by the way, absolutely against. We all remember the fall of Lehman Brothers, the rescue of the banks of Ireland, Great Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, without forgetting Portugal; more recently in Germany his first bank and in Italy several banks are being discussed. And in this context, of course, Galicia, as part of Europe, was affected. I think I know that very well, because I've been working for this for quite a while. Your Honor, the restructuring of the bank in Spain resulted in 45 savings banks, the elimination of all except two small boxes, one in Ontinyent and one in Pollença. 45, 43 eliminated. The restructuring of office loss has affected the whole of Spain. The average loss of offices in Spain was 37.5% of the total number of offices in banks and boxes, and in Galicia a little less, 36.9%. For example, in Catalonia, office loss was ten more points than in Galicia, 48%; in Valencia, 42%; in Madrid, 41%, etc. What's the source of the problems, starting to talk about the boxes, of course? We say it from the beginning, three things: the disproportionate increase in real estate credit, the excessive deployment of offices outside the autonomous community and the increase in galloping morbidity in the operations of the Greek savings boxes outside the autonomous community. Mrs. Pontón, you were in the government. Yes. You're not, of course, Your Honor, your group was in the Government; your group and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, when all this happened. I'm giving data on when the PP left the Government of the Union and when it arrived in 2009. In 2005, the real estate risk of the yellow boxes was 3,500 million; when we arrived in the Government it was 17,000. Mrs. Pontón, what did you serve as the country's great representative? Excessive deployment outside Galician offices. Yes, 292 offices during these four years of the Bipartite. 93% of them outside Galicia. And the morosity of the yellow boxes with the customers outside the autonomous community tripled the morosity within Galicia. So, Your Honor, we had two possibilities: what the Socialist Party wanted, which was that the Greek savings banks had disappeared, or what most Galicians wanted, initially even supported by the BNG, which was to try to keep the Greek cash registers a bank seat in Galicia, a bank card in Galicia, the workers in Galicia, the central services in Galicia and the risk committee in Galicia. It has not supported me at the end; there have even been political parties that have made demonstrations in favour of directors who, unfortunately, I regrettably say, are in prison today. That's the story of Galicia's financial restructuring. Now, Your Honor, now something else happens, now it turns out you find out that the Pastor Bank has settled. Your Honor, six years ago the Banco Popular bought the Banco Pastor. So, six years ago, the Pastor Bank didn't exist, and now what happens is that the People's Bank, ladies and gentlemen, has just been liquidated. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to enter into these considerations, among other things, because, as you know, the research and inspection capabilities of a bank quoted in the stock exchange of any autonomous state community are zero. Now I'm going to say, of course, what I think. I think we have to investigate what happened, I think we have to investigate, at least, the latest capital enlargements and stock issues; I think we have to investigate this booklet that came out; and I think we have to investigate the conditions in which many people bought shares from the People's Bank in recent capital enlargements. In my opinion, it must be investigated until the end. And I'm going to say, logically, what does the Government think? Look, the first commitment of this government is to try to keep the job; the second, in my view, that will be linked to the first, is to keep the Banco Pastor brand, because if we don't keep the mark, employment will probably suffer excessively more than expected. And thirdly, we must watch over the small shareholders, Your Honor. There are no bad banks and no good banks here. I know that for you, Banco Santander is a eucalyptus and, according to BNG, he's a wolf. It seems that the People's Bank was, of course, a lamb. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, do you know what we're going to do? What we're going to do, Your Honor, is, as always, defend Galicia. The first thing I did at 72 hours of having knowledge is to write to the President of the Bank of Santander and remind him of three considerations by the Government of Greece: firstly, that the employees of the Banco Popular Pastor have no responsibility; most of them were forced to buy shares from the bank. So right now they have zero value shares and they're in danger of their jobs. Second proposal, keeping the Banco Pastor brand. Why? Because I think that's good for the workers, and what I'm concerned about is for the workers. And the third proposal: that the shareholders who came to the last capital enlargements have to do a separate piece to study how they can be compensated. Your Honor, the President of Banco Santander sent me a letter of reply saying he's going to study each and every one of the considerations transferred by the President of the Board, and he called me to reiterate those proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u13	Look, ladies and gentlemen, while you're saying that there are good banks and bad banks -- when they're interested in them -- because as you know, according to the terminology of the Power Tides, the real okupas are the banks -- it's surprising, Your Honor, that now you're defending the real okupas, especially...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u14	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u15	...knowing his background. Mrs. Pontón, I am very proud of what I have done for my country in banking restructuring; I would do the same again. Today in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u16	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u17	...you can appreciate more than ever what the Greek Government has done and that there is an entity, Abanca, in Galicia, with thirst and social home. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u18	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Feijó. I'm glad that at least today you've rectified in the midst of your intervention and you recognize us that Banco Pastor was still operating, because otherwise the debate would no longer make any sense. Look, the Galician Nationalist Block wasn't on any board of directors of the old boxes. I do believe that members of the People's Party and the Socialist Party were there, being accomplices of what was happening in those boxes. BNG wasn't even an accomplice. [[Applause]] And you know perfectly well that we are trying to save the Greek financial system, but you have allowed yourself to bend to the interests of those former directors of those who now refuse — remember the amendment of the Law of Boxes that you have pushed in this Parliament — and to put in place a merger with which you have not guaranteed the continuity of the boxes. And, look, the context was the same for Euskadi and Catalonia as for Galicia. You have the bad habit of always looking at those who are worse and not looking at those who are better, and so you're never going to advance this country. The context was also the same for Germany, which well maintained its fabric of boxes and cared for it. You here were the accomplice needed to liquidate the financial system. But, look, the question that we have to ask today is, where were you guys when the Banco Pastor was starting? Where were they? We have information, Mr Feijóo, that there were autonomous communities who knew there was going to be a sale for a euro. Did you know or didn't you? Did I do something or did I just become a necessary accomplice to an operation that has severe consequences for our country? You have to tell us, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, where were you when you were liquidating the Pastor Bank in Babia? Tell us, because it's important. Where he wasn't defending Galician interests. But, look, we want to make four proposals for the future, which are four important commitments for this country: let us make a common front in this Parliament with the Government to really keep the brand of the Pastor Bank, to ensure employment, to guarantee the network of offices and the supply of rural areas and also to ensure the return of the bank's benefits through the Barrie de la Maza Foundation. Because, look, a phone conversation that soon doesn't fit into concrete commitments because it has the same value as those conferences that Rajoy makes with Trump. Secondly, we believe it is important that there is a solution for the 60,000 people — not for those of the last capital enlargements — who are being defrauded by the bank, with the Government's complicity. Solution for everyone, that's what the German Government has to claim. Thirdly, I'm glad to hear you follow up on the proposal that we've already made that there has to be an investigation. The key is: will you accept the expansion of the research object of the Committee on Boxes, but to do a real research, without vetoes, without censorship, without putting obstacles to that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u21	...the commission or are we going to follow, as in this case, as with the Committee on Boxes, with a commission that does not investigate anything at all? And finally, Mr President, for us, what is most obvious every day is that in this country what is needed is a Greek public bank. Look, with less than 0.001% of what they spent on that scandalous bank rescue, we would have launched a credit institution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u23	...of our country that had met the needs of Galicia. In your hand you're doing something or just coming here to get your hair back with headlines, but then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u24	Mrs. Pontón, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u25	...the facts of the German Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u26	Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u27	Mr. Núñez, the crisis has had unequal effects for people, and it has affected the social majority and has not affected the banks, has not affected the whole world equally. It has increased poverty and social exclusion, increased loss of rights, reduced social rights, and everything adapted with a reduction of civil liberties through the Mordaza Law so that, precisely, those affected by bank scams, such as the refugees, like the preferentialists, could not protest. Meanwhile, friendship capitalism did its own, and this in real time and this with the Banco Popular Pastor. It is suspicious — and so the European Central Bank believes — that the Banco Popular Pastor lost between December and April EUR 7 billion in deposits in view of the uncertainty of privileged information that some of them were going to recover or not that money. Who got that pimp? Who has benefited and who has harmed? These questions are made by the European Central Bank, but De Guindos doesn't care. Are you worried? More scam. We have learned this week that the 60 billion euros that we use all citizens to rescue the Spanish bank will never be returned and lost. While families for one or two payments from the quota of a mortgage were defeated by these same banks, these same banks now have 60 billion euros in return for nothing. Did it affect everyone the same crisis? Of course not. More gifts related to Banco Pastor, high-ranking awards. In the case of José María Arias 15,6 million euros — Arias Mosquera, President of Banco Pastor until he acquired by the Popular in 2011 and vice president of the latter — who ordered to destroy documents for a alleged crime of money laundering. This operation benefited companies investigated under the Gürtell operation amounting to more than EUR 1,200 million, according to yesterday's research. He didn't have time to see this gentleman break the bank because he was with the shredder, as they do in the People's Party with the hard disks of Bárcenas, hammering with our interests. Do you think this gentleman is a good economic manager? It must seem because Arias is the president of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela. Do you know who named him? Yes, you do. You, because you always surround yourself with the best, those who block the action of justice and cover up the crime, those who only think of themselves. I'm done with a proposal. We've been glad since En Marea that you agree to jump by the brand of Banco Pastor. We thought Banco Pastor worked in Galicia as a subsidiary of the Popular and that that worked well, that it was a remedy within the evil, within the damage caused by the Greek financial system. For the future everything will be Santander. The Greek society, on the other hand, as we're demonstrating here, wants Santander to keep the Banco Popular as a subsidiary. And why is that? First, because if you did, you would keep your own brand, keep offices open and, consequently, keep more jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u28	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u29	Besides — and I'm going to finish —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u30	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u31	...we must guarantee axile mechanisms of research and asset recovery for those small shareholders who were really cheated. You were talking about usurpation. Here yesterday they defended a series of procedural measures for 46 cases in Galicia last year; 22,000 cases already submitted in the courts or announced in connection with this matter of mass fraud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u32	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u33	Will you be on the side of most scams or will you be on the side of the banks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u34	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Time's up. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u35	Look, Mrs. Pontón, the past is written. You left me a few broken savings boxes, both of them, and they didn't tell me anything, absolutely. [[Murmurs.]] He says the BNG wasn't on the board. I have the name here of a BNG spokesman in Lugo who was at the board of directors, but I don't care. No, no, I know you don't, but if you're able to deny that you didn't leave the boxes broken, what else would you tell him your roommates weren't on the Board of Directors of the boxes? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, he says we had a conversation with the managers. Who changed the Law of Boxes to extend the retirement periods of the directors were you and who denounced the directors for an improper contractual modification we were. And the Banco de España has that letter signed by the President of the Union, denouncing those inappropriate compensations which have resulted in imprisonment — unfortunately, I insist — of directors of the Galician cassettes. So, Mrs. Pontón, look, about Galicia and about your commitments and your defense, nothing I have to copy of the BNG, absolutely. You, in principle, supported the merger, but then took off. You know why? Because they knew it was very difficult to maintain a financial entity in Galicia, because they knew it was very difficult to keep 5,000 jobs in Galicia, because they knew it was very difficult to keep the risk committee and central services, and because they knew it was very difficult to keep computer companies and teleoperators in Galicia. And that's why they left us alone before the Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That's the story, Mrs. Pontón, that's the story that's inside the BNG. I know you're talking about the public bank now. So, what do you want banks for? What do we stay in?, do we nationalize the bank or keep the banks and the European banking system? Look, Mrs. Pontón, you can't be in favour and against always different considerations. Look, it didn't shake our hands, we went through the Socialist Party's decrees, we went through the People's Party's decrees, we denounced the valuations of the boxes that FROB made, and we were next to the bankers. You were against the preference arbitration, and they left us alone again. We've managed to get 40,000 families back, Your Honor; we've got 40,000 families back! And we have here, Your Honor, the deadlines for issuing the preference, all except 130 million euros, in the time of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party ruling in Madrid with the support of the BNG. I know you're upset that I remind you of the story. I have to assume my own personal history always, you should assume yours. Mrs. Pontón, lessons, nothing. Look, I didn't speak on the phone. What I did was take a role — do you know why?, because the paper takes care of what is put on it — and send it with a member of the Galician Union; the role of the president — rather than before you started talking, by the way — and tell the Santander Bank what is the proposal of the Government of Galician Union. Bank Santander also sent his reply in writing and we then held a telephone conversation. The proposals of the Galician Council are known. We are very concerned about employment, 1,000 jobs from Banco Popular Pastor and between 600 and 800 jobs from Banco Santander in Galicia. We are concerned about the overlap of offices, 110 municipalities with offices overlap between Banco Santander and Banco Popular. We're concerned about the 60,000 Greek savers who had shares in that bank and who turned to zero. We're worried about the Pastor brand, because we think that keeping that brand is good for the workers, not for the Santander Bank. Look, Mrs. Pontón, I suppose if you keep the mark, it will be because the BNG has set it up and, without keeping it, it will be because of Feijóo. That's the proposal I'm used to. [[Murmurs.]] But, of course, it's obvious that in all possible ways there are those who win them, because, look, after seeing the recent events in Galicia and the problem of the okupas in Santiago, I'll find out today that the real okupas are the banks that defend the spokesperson of the Tide of Podemos. That's amazing, Your Honor! Now it turns out you defend the banks, and there's a very bad bank, which is the Santander Bank, and a very good bank, which was the People's Bank. Yeah, look, Banco Santander wasn't managing the Banco Popular. Now it turns out that the managers of other banks are responsible for the management of that bank that you think was very interested in families? They didn't care much, look what they did to the bank. Don't you realize that I stand up for the Greeks and you're the only one who defends are your ideological approaches? Don't you realize that I only owe myself to my people and that you don't owe anyone any debt? Don't you realize, Your Honor, that I'm free to say what I think in defence of Galicia and you have to consult each of the things and paragraphs you read? [[Applause]] Don't you realize that, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Don't you realize this? Look, Mr. Mareas, you, by abusing your parliamentary immunity, have just charged a number of prison crimes to a person. Yes, Your Honor, and that's why the Greeks every time you speak understand my reflection: what luck was justice with their exit and what bad luck we had in politics with their incorporation! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece of care to the major
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u37	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u38	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. Our seniors deserve priority in the policies of the Galician Union. By the end of this legislation, there will be about 700,000 people in Galicia over 65 years old, a continuance of a free-ascended population, while the whole population is stabilized or fallen. We have a system of pensions with insufficient levels, particularly in Galicia, and at some risk, we have a health system affected by cuts and we have attention to the dependence — which is what we are going to talk about today — the victim of austerity, which is very poor and poorly managed in Galicia. It is true that the economic and fiscal crisis in Spain has affected the development of the Dependency Act. But there were also political decisions in Spain and Galicia. In Spain, Mr. Rajoy reduced his ambition for dependence on the Law 20/2012, and reduced his funding 35 million euros a year. And in Galicia you've driven a morbid and scaring management of attention to the dependents, especially in residential care, in residences; a policy that deserves an answer and a correction. This is what the valuator of the people said in her last report: "As in previous years, delays in dependency proceedings, residences, disabled persons, etc. are frequent.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I won't read more quotes; there are many, but this summarizes what I mean. Why are we talking about morbid management? Because sometimes too often more than two years have passed since the application was initiated with an application until the benefit was received. And why are we talking about cicadare management? Because they force older people to opt for a bill, more economical for the board, or to follow an impossible waiting list so they can enter a residence. You notice what the valet said about this: "The residential waiting list services are protracted for a long time. Failure to comply with the statutory deadlines to effect subjective rights is not justified." Following the dependency-care law implementation schedule, the beneficiaries have increased by 38% over the last five years. It's okay. But do you know how much the residential squares have increased? Nine percent. They're forcing people to opt for the most economical benefits for the Union, refusing to offer the public and concerted residential squares that our biggest people need and where they need them. Majors with resources come to private residences, which have a monthly cost of EUR 1,500-2,000 — an open field of action for private companies due to the inaction of the Galician Union — but the largest ones who do not have enough resources to be able to cope with these costs or regardless of their heritage or end up weighing on the economies of their families or on the resources of their families. A public funding square is today, in Galicia today, you've been presiding for eight years, an impossible mission. And now you're going to tell us that you're going to make seven new residences by 2020. All right, all right! We'll see, because you promised in 2012 to build I don't know how many squares. But even if I do, it will be insufficient, because Galicia does not resist comparison with other autonomous communities. In Castela-León, with fewer, there are more than twice as many squares and more than twice as many public funding squares. In Galicia, there are only twice as many problems in accessing residences. There's an intense demand accumulated for years of inaction. In 2012 it promised 2,500 squares. How much did you do? And there's also a forecast to increase the number of older people in the next few years. Are you satisfied, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u39	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u40	...with that policy of attention to the elders? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u41	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u42	Mr. Leicega, I agree with you that the policies of older people must be a priority of any government in Galicia. And I agree that the largest are not only 24% of the total population of Galicia, but those we owe most to them. That's why, Your Honor, we're going to continue working, without any doubt, and that's why I'm reasonably satisfied, given the limitations — since you haven't talked about — of the budgets we've had over the past eight years, because we've been managing Galicia with an average of 2,000 million euros less than when you were managing it. And yet today in Galicia there are more higher squares, more dependents cared for, more disability squares and more Alzheimer's squares than when you ruled. The first thing we did was not talk about opinions, but about budgetary policies: 375.6 million euros are devoted to the attention of the elderly and the disabled. That's 76% more than when we get to the government. You will understand that in the years of economic recession, in the years of continued decline of the budget, that the care and disability departures had grown by 76%, so you could finish the answer, Your Honor. But what do we invest in that 76%? For in larger squares, in residences and day centers, 41% more, from 6,700 to 9,500 — note, Mr. Leicega —; in disability, 11% more; in alzeimer, 106% more. Total: from 11,625 squares to 15,158; percentage increase, 30.4%. In teleassisted resources for the elderly, an increase of 64%. I can say that there is not one German who has applied for this service that does not receive it. And I'm still, in improvements to the home aid service, when we get to the government, 2,700. Do you know how many are there now? 16,600. Increase, 509%. Mr. Leicega, this is the data. Do you want to sink? Dependency attention. When we arrived at the Government, there were 14,000 dependents taken care of on a monthly basis; now, 48,774, more than triple. The payout ratio, Your Honor, went from 36% to 73%, and people receiving attention through professional services went from 41% to 78%; 37 points more. [[Applause]] You will understand, Your Honor, that this is the data. If we spend 76% more on attention to the elderly and disability, what are we accused of, what should we spend more on? No doubt. But do we have more capacity to spend? Not until now. Now that we're starting to have more capacity to spend, you have my commitment to reaching the end of the legislation with 60,000 dependents attended and you have my commitment to starting seven residences in the seven cities of Galicia, where we are going to create 900 squares and create 500 jobs. Mr. Leicega, don't you think this is a reasonable proposal? Mr. Leicega, why when you had so much money did so little and we with less money did much more? Mr. Leicega, of course, who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u44	Quiet, ladies! But if the figures shouldn't bother anyone! Any German MP who feels proud of his seal must celebrate that Galicia today has more residence places than ever. So let's keep working for this old man, don't worry, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] Now, Mr. Leicega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u46	...—thanks—I take note of your proposal. I know there are autonomous communities that are better than Galicia, but you also know that Galicia is better than the average state. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u48	Mr President, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you should listen to us on this subject, even if it is only for political interest. You also listen to your former counselor Hernández and apply something more heartily in your political decisions and you'll probably see with other eyes the proposals I'm going to make to him, because the consequences of his morbid and cicadaral management on this land and, specifically, in the homes at large, are particularly dramatic. [[Applause]] I was just picking up the press that hospitals are looking for a home for hundreds of older people who can't go home because they need continuous attention and we don't have a chance to pay attention in the public system. Do you know how many residence squares we need to equal the Spanish average, equal the Spanish average to today? 3,755. These are the squares we need; not 900, 3,755, to equal the Spanish average in public funding; public financing!, which is what matters. We propose in the short term that you open already built public residences and that you have been closed for more than a year, a lot more. I went to visit Baleira's campaign, in Lugo, but there's more: in Foz, in Paradela, expansion of Carballino, in Cervo. Open those residences, unlock the agreement with the Lugo Deputy, which is making 13 residences available in the province, and concert these squares. And I immediately concert a thousand more squares to release the existing, very wide, too wide waiting list in the residences. And in the medium term it drives an ambitious program of building public residences. Not at 900, we're going beyond 2,000. Do you know how much it takes to build 2,000 squares on what you've already planned? It needs an additional 50 million euros. You're giving up 60 million public debt you could apply here, use them! Getting into a public residence is an impossible mission right now, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and the biggest can't afford the costs of private residence. Do you know what average pension is for a person between 75 and 79 years of age in Galicia? It's 732 euros, and for women under 600. You can't cope with these square resources in private residences. Theresa May lost her absolute majority, among other things, so she was known as the "demency tax." You're applying an unsaid tax, an unpaid tax, to the elders with your residential policy, forcing them to opt for bail or a private residence that many higher than with few resources can't get. Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, living more years is an enormous social success. Being able to enjoy these additional years of life with sufficient public attention is a political decision that you haven't made. He's condemning the elders with less resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u50	...to need and uncertainty. Change politics and guarantee a better and more dignified future for older people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u51	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, now that you've recovered your heart, after you've voted continuously not to that investigation commission, it gives me the feeling that you haven't recovered your heart, you've recovered your survival instinct, that this is a very different thing, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] At the moment, there are Welshmen who don't agree with what I do, there are Welsh people who agree with what I do, but they're not mistaken because I owe everything to this country. This country gave me three continued majority, and that's why to me the important one isn't the position it occupies in the party, the important thing is not to let my countrymen down, the Greeks who voted freely in the elections. I know that's causing headaches. [[Applause]] It has nothing to do with his former spokesman. But, naturally, Your Honor, we're going to keep working. You speak of the Deputy of Lugo. But are you ever going to solve the problems in the Lugo Deputy? Do you not know that the Lugo Deputy assumed an agreement to request authorization and use that residence in the official residence register of the Galician Union, and the Government of the Lugo Deputy has resorted to that proposal? But didn't you explain that the problem between Suplusa and the Deputation of Lugo is continued and constant? But don't you explain that there are some Members of the PSOE who say one thing and another who says the opposite, and that's why you can't use any residence? But, Mr. Leicega, which part of the Socialist Party do you engage in? Mr. Leicega, if you want to talk about serious residences, I would also like to speak seriously, but you don't use the Deputy of Lugo. They didn't talk to anyone, they didn't compromise anything, they didn't plan anything. That's right, before the municipal elections they made a job offer to deceive hundreds of people who have been approved and who have not yet taken possession because they haven't opened a single residence; and they've spent more than two years since the public job offer. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, a little respect for the Greeks, Your Honor. A little respect for the Greeks! De Lugo too, which I defend as President of Galicia. Mr. Leicega, I insist on the data. There are more public-funded squares than when you were in government -- 34% more. There's more attention in the home -- six times more than when you were ruling. And there are more dependents cared for, the triple of when you ruled; from 14,000 to 48,775. I've just made two commitments: 60,000 dependents served at the end of the legislation and seven residences in cities where there's the most waiting list; seven residences in 900 squares. And now I add a third, Your Honor, this last semester of the year we're going to serve 3,000 more dependents. [[Applause]] You know why? Because we don't fool anyone, because we're going to have enough money to do it and because we're a solvent country. Look, the year 2017 is the year with more residence squares and dependents attended to in Galicia's history. And the year 2017 will be worse than the year 2018, than the year 2019 and that the year 2020, because we will continue to grow in residences, we will continue to grow in dependents and we will continue to grow in home help. Our worst data, Mr. Leicega, is three times better than yours in the most difficult times. That's why, Mr. Leicega, I take all the criticisms, but don't look down on the effort the Greeks have made over the past few years and don't look down on it, Mr. Leicega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u54	...that this government does not manipulate anyone who enters a residence. You used the municipal elections to manipulate in the province of Lugo, and unfortunately there are members of the Socialist Party in Lugo who disagree. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u55	Thank you. As announced, I am reading an institutional statement to the content of the National Day of Spanish Sign Languages. I take the opportunity to greet our guests who are in the gallery and pray to the person who knows the language of signs that collaborates with us in the reading I'm going to make now. If you do the favor. Thank you. I'll read the statement. "Access to education in equal conditions is an indisputable right for the whole student, and in the case of many deaf children and children, this access is guaranteed by including the language of signs within the framework of a bilingual bicultural approach, based on learning, knowledge and use of both the language of signs and the oral language of the environment. On the occasion of the National Day of Spanish Sign Languages, and coinciding with the tenth anniversary of the legal recognition of these languages in Spain, the Galician Parliament declares the value of the language of signs in education as a guarantor of equity, inclusion and freedom, a historic and fair demand of the Federation of Associations of Peoples of the Days of Galicia together with the State Confederation of Peoples of the Days. The group of deaf people is heterogeneous and diverse, due to a number of personal and contextual factors. Whatever the situation, every deaf person needs access to information and communication to develop an independent life and be an active part of the world. That is why everything sums up, and in the educational field an approach that covers the language of signs in addition to the oral language of the environment will equip the deaf person with all the tools necessary for the full development of personality and effective participation in social, cultural and labor life. The will of individuals and families is not enough to ensure equal access to education, but in the case of sign languages, the axis of obligations lies in public policies. That's why administrations need to realize that the academic success of deaf people is due to meet their needs and demands for the effective development of their language rights and the promotion of this language in Spain. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities establishes the obligation of States parties to facilitate the learning of sign language, as well as to promote the linguistic identity of deaf people, in order to facilitate their full participation on equal terms in education and as members of the community, a mandate that must be committed to and assumed by all public administrations. Similarly, it should be borne in mind that the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, so the recast text of the general law on the rights of persons with disabilities and their social inclusion, and the Law 27/2007, recognizes the languages of Spanish signs and the means of support for the oral communication of deaf people, with hearing and deaf-blindness, while not forgetting that each and every one of the education and further development laws includes in its articles the obligation to be universally accessible and inclusive in any of the educational stages, including higher education. However, any measure taken into consideration in order to advance inclusive educational policies for the deaf student must incorporate in a unified way the languages of signs, not only as a language of culture and communication, but also as curricular languages, and the indispensable participation of deaf professionals, if what is intended is to design schools in which everyone can develop their true capacities to contribute to the building of an ever more just and supportive society." Santiago, June 21, 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u56	As noted earlier, we are now debating two questions to the Government, as a result of a change. Question by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination of participation and results of individualized evaluation tests of the third primary education course
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u57	We started with the question of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, very good morning. As we all know, the Resolution of 25 April 2017 regulated the individualized evaluation corresponding to the third primary education course in this autonomous community, an evaluation which, as established in the LOMCE itself and in the resolution itself, has a census character and must therefore be carried out in all educational centres where primary education is given in our autonomous community, both public and private, whether they are concerted or not. This evaluation, which we consider to be a relevant evaluation because it is an evaluation that allows a diagnosis, as this course was conceived, about the degree of domain, skills, abilities and skills in expression and oral and written understanding, both in linguistic competition and in mathematics, obviously has as one of its fundamental objectives to serve as a food as well as information for students, centers and, therefore, teachers, families and educational administration themselves, to make the relevant decisions to correct the deviations they detect. However, despite having this assessment a purely informative and guidanceal character, and therefore not linked to any decision on the promotion of students or any assessment other than the intended objectives, it was strongly rejected, and indeed the Education Council itself admitted that participation was 60% of the student enrolled in our autonomous community in the 3rd course of primary education. Some sources refer to this participation as little as 20% in the public centers of our network of centers. As a result of this evaluation, the Council — and we agree that this should be done — takes decisions on the formulation of programme contracts and, therefore, on the adoption of reinforcement measures, including the provision of additional staff for educational centres which, according to the data of the Council itself, were one hundred and fourteen for this course we finished this week — the 2016-2017 course. Obviously, by not denying the convenience of these assessments and their relevance, we are concerned about the lack of participation and therefore that the decisions taken as a result of the data obtained from that assessment are not sufficient, nor are they going to stop at the necessary place. So, what we urgently ask you — because these decisions are going to be made in these days — is whether the Counsellor you are directing considers that the level of participation in the evaluation tests – which refers to the question – allows you to obtain valid results on the objectives set out in that assessment. Thank you and I'm sorry, Mr. President, that you weren't in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u59	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, first of all, Mr. Álvarez, thank you for a question that is surprising in the opposition groups, they've been called evaluation assessments! Something amazing! And I thank you, honestly, because I think we're quite tired of hearing them call them revalicious to which they're not revalid. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then I thank you for that. I also thank you for saying that these tests were relevant. This group always defended him, always! And it is true that in its political sphere — both directly and indirectly — there has always been a constant attack on these evidences and many times has been heard to ask what they are for. You said what they are for and I took your words: they serve to make an information, to make decisions and to correct through the program contracts. In fact, even this year — you have given a given — there are specific teachers for the programme contracts and thus can reduce school failure. You have spoken of it as guidance — and it is true — and you have spoken of it as guidance — and it is true. That's why I thank a member of the opposition for the first time, because I've heard the truth about the 3rd primary assessment test, which is why I don't have much more to say. I only regret the Socialist Party, because if you understand that the evidence is as important — as indeed it is — I am sorry that when many voices have raised a lot of questions — many lies — which were oriented towards confusion — to confuse families and confuse teachers — the PSOE had not raised its voice and said what you said today, because — no doubt — it would be very positive, not for the People's Party or the Council, it would be very positive for families, very positive for students and very positive for the education system, because we would have more information. With regard to what you say to me in particular, is 60% enough information? I'll tell him I did. What would we like to have more? You too. But you have to ask those voices that they warned, that they criticized, that they boycotted, that they released constant messages to denigrate these tests — that you said they were relevant and that they are useful to improve the system — why they did it. He's probably got the closest answer you're going to. And I come back as I began: I thank you for using the terminology that is and describing what it is: a diagnostic evaluation that serves to improve the system, not a revalid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u61	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u62	I don't know if seeing the dynamics of the question more than a replica is a turn of gratitude to the applause of the People's Party, which I don't know whether they were for the Counsellor or for the precise use of language. In any case, the evaluation is an evaluation. The problem with this evaluation — you know it, you know it, and we all know it here — is the source of the law that gives rise to these evaluations. Not the evaluation itself, but the linking of the 6th, the 4th ESO and the 2nd bachelor's to getting the title. So that's perversion. I believe that no one with a common sense — and in that common sense including all opposition groups — will be questioned if an evaluation is made that enables any type of system — in particular education — to be diagnosed to know how it works. In any case, I am concerned, in particular, that they admit sufficient reliable information to be obtained from 60 per cent of the census of all centres on which that assessment should be applied. I worry twice about it, because it doesn't allow me to get a faithful picture of how the education system is responding, and therefore it can take the necessary measures, but it also concerns me — as I indicated in my first speech and I would like you to clarify — that there are probably going to be centres where it was appropriate to provide additional reinforcement teachers with the program contracts, but that I am not going to have it because participation in this evaluation was not sufficiently high enough to get that information. Of course, who needs to ask about the valuation that is done is the government, not who can at some point question those assessments, which is what we're doing. The Socialist Party does not have to encourage participation in any evaluation, that is a task for the Government — as you know — to this government or any autonomous community. So don't charge this parliamentary group with the responsibilities that you are directing. And if I would like to make it clear, in the second intervention, that the measures taken will go to the appropriate centres, I would like to thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u63	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u64	Mr President, it ends in some way by giving reason to the large part of the political discourse that we have always seen in favour of the 3rd primary evaluations — in general, to the whole of the evaluations — that it is not so much the evidence itself, but that it is within the law of the People's Party: political positioning. I believe that this has caused a lot of damage to the education system, since it is a political position in which, obviously — as you have just seen — the political and party interest — is more — let us say — that what is really important for education — as you said well — is that it is being evaluated, that it is being diagnosed and that corrective measures are being applied. Look, is the problem with the law?, as you might think, but it's done that until now, instead of doing the fourth grade -- sorry, the third grade -- they were doing the same thing in the fourth grade, exactly the same thing. I have not heard any voice, nor scream, nor question, nor boycott, nor criticise, nor question the 4th ESO tests, which are practically identical — as you know — those of the 3rd. Why? Because because these are in the People's Party law, they're bad, and the ones that were before are good. That really, in the end, what does it do?It causes a huge uncertainty. It's a huge irresponsibility to have such a politically demagogic attitude that who really harms, because at the whole system, because the evaluation tests are good. Why are they good? Because they give information. Is 60% enough? We understand you do. Now, would you like to have more? Yeah, we'd like to have more data. Why? Because we would have a more complete X-ray. Now, statistically a 60% balance over the sample body is a very important data. And finished as I began: if we are all here for the next year and we follow the evaluation tests, then the Socialist Party is an ally, not the People's Party, but an ally of the student and an ally of the educational system to somehow reduce the incidence and impact of those who, inevitably, call the boycott of these evidences that — as you have said well — are very relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u65	Thank you, Counselor. It would now be the question — and I do not see it in the Chamber — of Mrs. Montserrat Prado Cores. I can't see her in the Chamber. In any case, if you can warn her... [[Pause.]] Quiet, please! I've made a decision now and I'm pending. If you can't come it's predictable and you have to think that we're all human and that with so much change you can dismiss anyone. It must be a little reasonable. We're going to give you some common sense, if it's not possible... don't you locate it, Mr. Bará? Is there any other deputy who can do it on the block? No, that's the problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, but it has to be on the question. Home! Please! What solution can be made, lawyer? Let's see, what solution can we give to this? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'd stay for another session. Stay for the next session. [[Murmurs.]] It was a spook, but it's understandable. I'd stay for another session because, precisely, it changed the order of the day because the counselor had an act now. We're giving it down and it's up to another session. We continue. Proposals not of law, also debate in a cumulative way. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the development by the Greek Government of a global strategy for the carriage of goods by rail and the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the connection of Galicia, the communities of the north of Spain and the northern region of Portugal to the Atlantic corridor in the revision of the Regulation of the "Connect Europe" mechanism to be held in 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u66	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group to the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Group of the European People's Parliamentary Group have also been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u67	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr Bará has the floor, first of all, of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u68	Good morning. After these avatars, these changes on the agenda... calm down, that I didn't say anything! [[Murmurs.]] We are going to the subject of this initiative, which seems to us to be a vital issue, a fundamental issue that has to do with the railway — more specifically, with the freight railway and the Atlantic corridor — and which has to do with two major objectives, which we understand — we have to have as a country and as political forces. One, the improvement and modernization of the internal rail network, in addition to the sustainable forms of transport, because we are talking these days about policies against climate change and, of course, rail is a sustainable form of transport and a good way to fight as a country against climate change. And besides, because there are other forms of sustainable transport, and these days the issue of public transport by road is now under way, because you have managed to agree, contrary to all sectors related to transport, and we are in the middle of a strike for that reason. In addition to the improvement and modernisation of the internal rail network, the external connection of our country is also fundamental, the connection with three priorities: on the one hand, the Meseta, on the other hand, Portugal — through the Atlantic axis — and, thirdly, Europe — the exit to Europe of our commodities, which is an absolutely fundamental and vital issue for our country, because, in addition, we are at indexes, at levels of transport of absolutely low and tiny rail goods, which do not reach 3%, while the European average is 18%. And we, the German nationalists, do not want to give them lessons of Europeanism — that we could give them, historical and current —. It is not that we want to be in Europe; it is that we are Europe, even though this Europe, this European Union of merchants and speculators, wants to leave us out: as in that novel of Saramago, the stone fence, they want to dig there a ditch and throw us out. No, we do not want to be outside; we are Europe, we want to participate, we want to participate in European transport networks. And of course, this map shows -- I don't know if they can see it, I suppose they already know it -- that exclusion, because there's an empty one here on the Trans-European Transport Network, because they want to leave us out. And it's not something today, 2017; it's because the agreements that made this exclusion possible were already made in the European Parliament in 2013 by a proposal from the Government of the State of the People's Party. By the way, in the European Parliament, with a overwhelming majority, and I do not want to remind you of what they voted here at that time, what the majority forces, the People's Party, voted to make this exclusion possible. Look, I'm going to read you a sentence from a European politician, a former European Commissioner for Transport of Estonian nationality, who said, "Who isn't on the Trans-European Goods Transport Network that is prepared to be a zero on the left." You, with these decisions that were made in 2013 -- and then also, because they were made later -- want us to be a zero on the left, and of course, the German nationalists are not going to allow them to do that. This Trans-European Transport Network project will assume — it is already assuming — a multi-million-dollar investment of more than 23 billion euros to improve transport connections: to build roads with international width, double-way, electrified and ERTMS control system and, therefore, it will also assume that conventional tracks that are part of the corridor have to be reformed to meet these parameters. It is therefore an absolutely vital infrastructure for the country as a whole, but above all for the connection of the transport of goods from the Greek ports. Currently, as you can see from this map, it is planned to connect most of the Portuguese ports that have exit via Salamanca or via Madrid, but neither the Cantabrian ports nor the Greek ports are included. So there's an exclusion here. You say we're constantly complaining about the marginalization and the aggravating, and this is a case of a marginalization and aggravating book; but it was a marginalization and an aggravating perpetrated with the complicity, with the collaboration, with the decisions and with the vote of those who voted in favour of this initiative. And now it turns out that a few months ago, in February 2017, the Ministry of Development sent the proposals to develop this network and it involves this same design that excludes Galicia. So we don't count on the People's Party in the decisions of the People's Party. And not only that, but that, for the most part, they have just approved in the 2017 State Budgets, or in the Budget Project that is under negotiation and that is going to be approved shortly, splits of 381 million euros to connect the port of Bilbao to the Atlantic corridor; and for Galicia there is nothing, of course. And now they've come to realize that we're not, in 2017, and they're proposing to review the design of the Trans-European Transport Network in 2018 and therefore including Galicia. Well, he woke them up late, but it's never late if the saying is good. Evil is already done, and there is, in any case, responsible for those decisions. So if there's an opportunity to change that design, because we all go together, if possible, to go with a country position and try, let's say, to change this prejudicial decision to Galicia. But of course, the last events also do not encourage us much optimism, because it turns out that there has recently been a Hispanic cumio and Mr. President of the Galician Union, Mr. Feijóo, made public the demands on infrastructures of the Galician--North Portugal Labour Community, which were basically two: the high-performance train from the Atlantic axis to the port and the inclusion of Galicia and the north of Portugal in the Atlantic corridor. And, do you know what was the response of the State Government, of the Minister for Development, my friend Iñigo? For he said it was not the right forum, and at this we call it none; we call it lack of political weight; political influence; the ability to influence the Government of the Union, the People's Party, Mr. Feijóo. Because at that same meeting you gave them a boost, precisely, to Aveiro's connections — which will also connect to Porto — and to the connection of Sines and Lisbon through Valladolid, through Medina del Campo, to get out of Europe; and we stay out. And of course, they are now also in that macro-region, Resoe, discussing and trying to reach a common position to defend a position, the communities that are excluded, to have that connection. They woke up now, they woke up late. In any case, it is Castile and Lion who is leading that working group on transport and logistics. I suppose they'll also sweep the house, as the Portuguese of the north do with the automobile, because they also lead that working group. But, in any case, we are not going to allow our country to be out: we are going to put on our side everything necessary for Galicia to count on that Atlantic corridor and, therefore, we think that we need a clear, powerful and unanimous position, if it can be, of this Parliament on this; and there are our proposals and also the others, which we think can be integrated into a joint agreement. We are in favour of making a unanimous decision in this regard, although we have some doubts which, in any case, in the second intervention, we can clarify, in order to fix the position on the cantabrian corridor, which we do not understand very well, at least its layout, because we are — and we already defend it here — in order to boost the old feve as a corridor for the transport of goods and also for the transport of people, who are letting it stutter, who are tearing it down, and we think it has to be an alternative for the future for that area of our country; but, in any case, we think that the so-called northwest corridor has to have another plot, it has to go through Monforte. In any case, everything is negotiable, everything is consensual and we think that the priority in this case is that we have reached a unanimous agreement by this Parliament to deal with this exclusion of Galicia. We also think that there must be a great social and institutional mobilization in favour of this issue; because if we talk a lot, we see ink rivers on the transport of people, on the AVE — if there will be three months, six months, two years, five years, twenty years - and we are hardly talking about the transport of goods, which is an absolutely vital and fundamental issue for our economy, for our country, for our future. So we want to be Europe, we want to be Europe, we want to be in Europe and we don't want to be left out. So we're going to do our best to get a unanimous position from the country on this issue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We share, Mr. Spokesman of the BNG, that view that it is a vital and fundamental issue, we share this. We also share the generic goals that we are talking about, for Galicia, the improvement of the railway and the external connection. And we also agreed that it is an important decision of the country and, therefore, we have made a little progress yesterday in trying to achieve that unanimity, we hope to achieve that unanimity on this subject because we also agree on this importance. What happens is that I will try to clarify a number of things — listening to your words — because, as always, you tell the story to half and second, you are interested in it. I will try to clarify some of these issues on the European transport network, but clearly, in the end, there is such agreement on fundamental issues. As I said, the project of this Trans-European Transport Network plans to establish this basic integrated infrastructure of the European Union and, in particular, the connection of Western and Eastern Europe; although much of this network already exists, it is obviously better and still shortcomings need to be amended. These guidelines were adopted in that regulation: 1315/2013. This Trans-European Transport Network has a double layer structure, which is part of the things that don't matter. On the one hand there is the global network, which includes existing and planned infrastructures, and on the other hand there is the basic network, which is strategically important. In both of them is Galicia, that is to say, in the network — that is why the comment made by the Commissioner— Galicia is and are all its ports: in the global network is the port of the Coruña and in the basic network are the rest of the ports and the basic rail network. So we're on that basic network. Where aren't we? In the priority corridors, which is the map you teach. All right! That's why we're making this presentation, but don't say we're outside the European transport network, because it's not true. I'll be right there. What has Europe approved as well? A document that is to connect Europe, which sets priorities for financing. It's true! That's why we're putting it in. So the 2014-2020 funding will go primarily to these lines, to these priority lines; it doesn't mean the rest isn't within the European transport network. Now an opportunity is open, because in 2018 the European Commission plans to revise this document, which, by the way, was approved in 2013; but all the processing and public consultation, and consultation with the states, was made in 2009-2010 — you can consult it — when the People's Party did not rule. When approved, there is no longer — in 2013 — the possibility of changing those decisions; and that consultation was made when the Socialist Party was ruling in Spain. But I would like to look at the future: the important thing is to try it — I think this is the unanimous decision — so that in 2018 we can achieve, among all, that it is integrated in the priority corridors — which is not the same as in the basic network or the global network — the railway infrastructure and the ports of Greece, as well as the logistics platforms of Monforte and Plesan. In any case, you're already working on this: when you teach that plan, it's also out of Britain, which will also try; stay out of Italy... that is, there's a desire to structure cross-sectionally in another sense and not with these lines. What does the Government want and we propose from this People's Group? For in this amendment we recognize what is known as an antenna, which is a branch that can connect, from Sale of Baths to Palencia, León and Astorga, with Monforte de Lemos and, through it, with Vigo and the Coruña to incorporate them into this priority corridor. This is the objective of being able to enter the Connecting Europe instrument, which prioritizes European funds. But we're inside the network, which is not these priority corridors. What do you mean? Well, obviously, it's intended to connect the already basic ports of Coruña and Xixón and the global ports of Santander, Avilés, Ferrol and Vigo. In any case, you can also have funds for the improvement of the Palencia-Monforte line, the interior lines and the improvement of logistics platforms. Well, he's already working: the Directorate-General for Mobility with the Galicia-Europe Foundation has begun this strategy to try to be there. But, of course, as much as this Parliament and the Greek Government do their jobs, it is a competition from the Government of Spain and, therefore, our proposal is to transfer and ask the Government of Spain to incorporate this antenna to collect the Cantabria all the northern communities, of course: also Cantabria, Asturias, Castile and León and Galicia, and to the northern part of Portugal, and that you can connect it in this priority corridor, which is corridor 9. And also the Galician Union has already expressed its intention to transfer this proposal to the Atlantic Arc Commission — which is the one that remains outside, I said, with Britain and with other areas — and to the European Committee of the Regions, so that the pronouncements of these bodies will assess the Greek demand. We therefore understand that this is an important issue, as we said earlier, for Galicia, which is important for the entire cantabrian cortex, which is important for the Euroregion Galicia-North of Portugal. We believe that this request to which you have to lead is the Ministry of Development, which is responsible for permanent representation in the European Union, and we believe that it collects not only the demands of governments and social groups, but that, in addition, we understand that, if we make these statements unanimously — so yesterday we made a proposal to join the two PNLs and the proposed amendments of the two groups, of En Marea and PSdeg; they told me in the Juridical Services of the House that it is necessary for unanimity to be able to bring these two proposals together — it is worth making that effort, I believe that this proposal for union collects the nuances they want to put on the theme of the cantabric corridor, collects the main demands of the four groups, and we understand that it is worth bringing this unanimous statement from the four groups of the European Union to the Ministry and the European Union. We will not stop making the necessary efforts to reach that agreement, nor will we try to see if the rest of the groups recognize it and so do they feel appropriate. In any case, I think it is important to say the clear things: Galicia is not outside the European Transport Network, if these priority corridors have a preferential funding, and this is what we bring in this non-law proposal and — I insist — although the decree was formally approved in 2013, this public decision has already come from 2010. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. A few years ago, a Spanish musical group, Golpes Netherlands, edited a single under the clarifier title Bad weather for the lyric. It does not seem that, over the years, lyric time is better, but it is also true that there is a situation, a dialogue that affects us directly, as is Galicia's transport, which has not improved at all in recent times. More often every day, every week, every month, every year, a constant deterioration of the same as a result of the abandonment to which Mr Feijó's governments have been subjected in recent years. Over the last few years — too much — the Counsellor has been most busy and concerned about the mobility of the officials of the Directorate-General for Mobility — four years — who are busy and concerned about the mobility of the Greeks and the Greeks. Bad weather for transport in Galicia. Bad times, fruit of passivity and neglect of the Directorate-General for Mobility and Counsellor for years. And we've been warning you since the past legislation. The results account is tremendously enlightening of the current situation of transport in Galicia: without airport coordination, stations and traditional rail lines closed, proximity train and absolutely missing neighborhoods, access from AVE to Galicia always deferred in time, transport of abandoned road goods, metropolitan transport has changed nothing in the last seven years — since 2010 there is no progress; intermodality is a word as often threatened as sometimes betrayed — and the regular public transport of road travellers we all know today as it is, and I think it deserves a small point. What we are living in these days — and I'm not going to go into detail — is the result of the transport policies applied by popular governments in the last two legislations. It's only a final consequence of what hasn't been done for the last eight years. The current situation, with the loss of services, the loss of business fabric in rural areas and the loss of jobs, is a reflection of a way of making mistakes, improvisations and also irrationality. We're on a runaway in front of the People's Party on this subject, and they're worried about us, because it can even take us to school transport. I hope and hope that the Greek Government will be much more diligent and responsible in this matter that we are debating. That is why I like — and I recognize it — the work done yesterday and the demonstration of today by Mr Fernández Prado seeking unanimity on a question that matters — and much — for Galicia. We have already said that the transport of goods from Galicia largely depends on the transport of goods by road, and it seems essential that Galicia is integrated into the European network, that it is, and that it is part of those corridors that are fundamental to the exit of goods, also for the entry, in any case to move the goods of entry and exit into our autonomous community. That is why I consider it important, we consider it important and essential, within transport, to transport goods by rail. Galicia therefore cannot remain as the periphery of the periphery as regards the rail transport of goods. You can't stay isolated from the outside by not accessing the Atlantic railway corridor and also what could be corridor north-west, and you can't stay isolated internally without connection between the productive poles and even without connection to the five ports of general interest, which are able to mobilize, in 2015 data, 14 million tons in that year. The revision of the regulation, of the Connect Europe mechanism in 2018, that is, next year, is an opportunity, indeed, as you have recognized here, and it is also an opportunity that we cannot waste, that we can neither despise nor waste. In fact, I understand that the unanimity proposal that makes the People's Group's voice is on the way that we are in July, this question has to be made next year, it has to be pulled up next year, which is when the final decision is made. So we have more than enough time, also without delay, for these months to be able — the whole of the House, the whole of political groups, of society itself and business entities — to make a joint proposal that has more strength to participate in that financial programme, which would allow us to enter those corridors. It is therefore an opportunity that needs the contributions of the institutions and the corporate and social forces to be successful. And from the Socialist Group we want to do, we want to make our contributions through the amendments tabled both to the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block and that of the People's Party. With them we want to compromise in the state budgets for 2018 the necessary departures to advance the connections collected in the state transport infrastructure plans. And I name them briefly: the railway line Vigo-Ourense-Monforte de Lemos-Ponferrada-Forte de Baños; the southern railway exit of Vigo, towards completing the axis Ferrol-A Coruña-Vigo-Porto; the railway connection of the port of Vigo with the Logistics Platform Salvaterra-As Neves, the known railway connection as PLSAN; and the railway connection that, corrected by the proposal that makes us the People's Party in operational improvement, of the dry port of Monforte, which we accept logically. So we are in the right situation right now, at this time, between now and autumn, to work together to get a proposal forward so that the transport of goods in Galicia, the rail transport of goods in Galicia, has the necessary support to make it effective, so that it works properly, and so that we can take advantage of it and expand our full potential in what we produce and what we receive. For our part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u74	Good morning to all and to all. From Marea we agree with these proposals and, in addition, we propose an amendment to add that we think can complete an integrated proposal for the trade in rail goods, with which we believe that we can position Galicia at the vanguard of European logistics. And we do it thinking about country projects, about getting out of their alternity, about going back to Galicia with our full potential, to be able to open new windows of opportunity for our production model, in addition to the advantages we already know of rail transport as regards ecology, economics and security. The infrastructure model is of vital importance to establish the country model we want. That's why we need to think about infrastructure in full. And the next revision of the corridors gives us an opportunity to put on the table a model that puts Galicia at the vanguard of Europe on the transport of goods. With this review that Europe is going to make next year of European commodity corridors we have an opportunity for Galicia to be part of that network and to take advantage of the potential of our geostrategic situation, being the point of the Atlantic cornice that is less distance needed to enter Europe, which means to be able to count on the most competitive time to connect with the French corridor. There are different ways to connect Galicia to the European rail corridor network, but it is the cantabrian corridor that can place Galicia in the place that we can achieve by geostrategic position, is the corridor that can put us on the front line with Europe's best in commodity logistics. We understand that the cantabrian corridor is a great option to connect us to the European corridor network for different reasons. For a while, it's at least a distance and so it can be the smallest travel time to connect the Cantabrian cornice to the French merchandise corridor, which gives us Europe into the corridor network. In this way, the German ports could become the best option for many of the commodities that use the Atlantic for entry or exit from Europe. It would also allow us to connect all the networked Greek ports, connecting in turn the most important ports of Asturias, Cantabria and Euskadi, which, along with the southern exit to Portugal, allows us to overcome the radial model and take out our greatest potential. And also for the orography itself: the cantabrian cornice is the natural exit from Galicia to Europe. Not to bet on this formula complementary to the proposals brought by the BNG and the People's Party seems to us a loss of opportunity for Galicia, losing the enormous potential of connecting the ports of the Atlantic and Cantabrian cortex, and would lose competitiveness in the times at the entry and exit of European commodities through the Atlantic axis. The best thing for Galicia is that all groups try to make common cause for this next revision of Europe from the corridors network and jointly defend the best proposal for our future, and can reach agreements with the communities of the north-west and, in particular, to talk about the cantabrian corridor, with Asturias, Cantabria and Basque Country, which have expressed their interest at some point in this cantabrian corridor, which seems to us to complete an integrated proposal that would place Galicia in the vanguard of the management of commodity logistics. I'd like to talk about how this issue came about, which I think has once again raised the lack of a country project of the People's Party, the lack of direction. We are pleased that the People's Party brings this proposal and bets on the transport of goods by rail, but, as I say, it makes it manifest the drift and the lack of direction. Four months ago, the Infrastructure Advisor, Mrs. Ethel Vázquez, appeared in this House, announcing the Government's strategic lines for the next four years on housing and infrastructure. With regard to the railway, he only spoke of the arrival of the AVE in 2019 — which we will be talking about in 2020 — he spoke of the improvements of the railway to Ferrol and Lugo, he did not speak of the carriage of goods by rail, he said nothing of connecting himself to the European corridors, he did not speak of the exit to the outside of the railway goods in Galicia. I was in my intervention to recriminalize him; I told him it seemed disturbing to us that there was no such bet and he remained in his position. A proposal from this quiet, similar silence, was not within the plans of the Infrastructure Council and was Mr. Feijóo a month ago, three months after the Infrastructure Adviser announced the strategic lines for Galicia, which he announced would work for the Greek Government to connect to this network, making an amendment to the Infrastructure Advisor himself. And today the Group of the People's Party is bringing a PNL to urge the Government to do what the Government has already announced it will do. This is the world in reverse, and this shows that the People's Party does not have a country project and that it moves the title coup, that it moves the coup d'commands coming from the state party's summit or that it moves to orders coming from administrative councils. What is clear is that this proposal is not a proposal by the Galician People's Party, because the Infrastructure Adviser four months ago announced — as I say — their strategic lines and they weren't inside. And he wanted a month before the Infrastructure Advisor appeared in this House there was a demand for entrepreneurs from the north-west who formed on the platform requesting it and the Infrastructure Advisor from the Principality of Asturias came out supporting it and saying that, of course, they will continue to add; Cantabria and the Basque Country had already announced their bet for this, and yet, from the German Government there was no bet and we don't know very well why this change of course. I say we're glad, but it shows this lack of a country project for Galicia by the People's Party. We'd like to know if from now on this will always work like this and we don't have to pay any attention to the advisors' appearances anymore and we wait for Feijó — where he appears, through the media — to mark the lines of each councillor. We'd like to know if Counselor Ethel Vázquez is still a stone card advisor or there's going to be some movement with this amendment that makes him both Feijó and the Popular Group, by the way, the Popular Group that at that appearance seemed fantastic all the proposals of the Infrastructure Advisor and today they don't seem so fantastic and brings this proposal of enormous silence, because we're talking about a proposal that completely changes infrastructure policies, which completely changes commodity transport policies and directly affects our production model. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. The authors of non-law proposals have word for word. First of all, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u76	Thank you, President. Indeed, we are on the European global network, but how we are!: we are excluded from the priority networks, which is what we are talking about today, which is money to finance those priority axes. Because, of course, there are already train tracks here, but they are not good for this what we are talking about today, and that is why this agreement we are proposing here, because we are actually talking about that priority basic network, and above all these nine priority projects, which are those that are supported by the agreement of the European Parliament adopted, by the year 2013 with 583 votes in favour and 29 against. And parliaments can also modify proposals, even if they come from state governments. There was time to make a different deal, something else could be done. And now, in 2017, with a view to 2018, because they're talking about changing this design, this exclusion from Galicia, but of course we're worried because the response that the President of the Council of the Ministry of Development has has certainly not made us very optimistic. Because it turns out that the president of the Galician Union, representing the northern Galician working community of Portugal, makes two concrete proposals to move to the Spanish-Luso peak and turns out that they throw it to the stationery, who say it's not the forum, where it goes with that proposal, that it's not there. But just in that forum they approve, they impose those priority axes that connect the Portuguese coast, the Portuguese ports, including port and Aveiro, Meseta and Europe. So we stay out. So we're concerned about that position of the State Government. BNG's proposals are clear. That's three of them. On the one hand, the bet on the northwest corridor, its integration into these European priority networks, and therefore access to funding in this period up to 2030, which is going to involve investment of more than 23 billion euros; and in this sense we can say that it coincides fundamentally with the proposal of the People's Party. Also, the improvement and modernization of the internal rail network, which complements this proposal also with the approaches made by the Socialist Party and also with the empowerment of the Atlantic axis, with a competitive axis also for transport by goods to connect, connect The Coruña and Ferrol with Lisbon through this axis. And we continue to express our doubts about this proposal by the Cantabrian corridor, which we have not fully understood. We think that the historic exit of Galicia to the Meseta and to Europe is through Monforte, through Medina del Campo and across the French border. And it was always that way and so I don't know if it's meant to be a new plot, a new design, new pathways that have to have these characteristics of double width and European width and be electrified, and I don't know if what's being proposed to us here is that Vigo's port removes its commodities through Xixon and through Santander. We didn't understand this proposal very well. In any case, we think that there is time to reach an agreement, to reach a consensus, to reach the unanimity of this Parliament, and we will do our best to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor, representing the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At first, Mr Bará, for the last time, I think we can talk about this amendment that presented the Tide on the topic of Cantabria. In any case, it is drafted in such a way that I believe it allows further evolution or design both with the possibility of Fever, again via; that is, what it talks about is to improve that carriage of goods via the Cantabrian axis. I think we can have points of agreement there to get everyone together to that amendment. What's strange to me is that they have visions of the Tide and the BNG diametrically opposed; that is to say, for the Tide, what he commands is the minister and obeys him, and the lord of the BNG said that to what Feijóo asks, the minister doesn't listen. Let us make clear, because, moreover, it is not one of the two things: it is a work of the German Government with other self-governments who also want this proposal and with society, through other forums — I have already participated in forums of the Atlantic axis — that, as a society, as autonomous governments that are — more than one — they ask the Government this, and there is no order or of course no contempt on the part of the minister. In any case, I would also like to take advantage of — because there are so many things being said here — to make it clear, first, that general transport, but rail transport, is an aspect for this group and for the Government that supports it as a priority and basic for Galicia and we will continue to defend it, despite the fact that the competences, of course, are from the Ministry of Development, but as a government and as a group I think we have already given a few examples. The Lugo-Ourense train has been approved and put into the budgets and at the first meeting of the minister with President Feijóo; the southern exit of Vigo, that clear commitment from the Vigo exit; the Vigo-Porto, which has already been on the Hispanic-Portuguese summit of the other day and which is already with specific deadlines; in the improvement of the train Ferrol-A Coruña is hired the project by the Galician Union to speak of this connection, not only of passengers but also of commodities, for the modernization of that route; the theme of intermodal. In general, the commitment is clear, both from the Government and from this group, to rail transport. I therefore believe that we have space, we have possibilities for reaching that agreement, we understand — like all groups — that this is a priority, that we must fight together. And I want to end by thanking that desire for consensus and thanking for the support of these initiatives of the two groups and wishing and hoping that, if there are any nuances, we can realize it now, because for us, we need unanimity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u79	Thank you. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to improve the public pension system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u80	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u81	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u82	Good day to all and all. Today the BNG brings here this initiative, which aims to defend the public pension system. We want to give the debate about the pension situation, about this open debate about the viability of the pension system, the threats facing it, the official lies, and all to promote a new reform that makes it easier for them to do business with public pensions. First of all, I want to send a greeting to the IGC pensioners who today concentrated here at the doors of Parliament and have just handed over over over 14,000 signatures in the register in demand for a public pension system, after a campaign of awareness and proposals. The debate on the sustainability of the public pension system comes from a distance. For years now he's been predicting his breakdown, promoting a private system managed by the banks. In the 1990s, there was a strong advertising campaign, the bank, insurance companies, to pick up clients for private pension funds. It is necessary to frighten public opinion by presenting the public pension system as inadmissible. The reason is quite simple: on the one hand, the interest in cutting public administration; on the other hand, in transferring to the private system the management of a formidable volume of capital derived from public pension funds. And since the 1990s, the international debate on pension reform has always been dominated by theories arising around the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund or the OECD, which defend strong cuts in public pension systems, accompanied by individual capitalization through the private sector. The central argument that they use, always through reports from the committees of wise men — although it is said, made up almost always by representatives of the bank and insurers — is that the pension system is unsustainable. The reasons presented are that life expectancy increases progressively while there are fewer contributors due to the fall of the active population. From that idea, they extend the social alarm by claiming that in the long term there will be no money to pay the pensions. And the goal — as I said before — is to favour the privatization of pensions and allow the financial capital to manage these large amounts of public pension money. A progressive and constant attack in the Spanish State. In 1997 the Aznar Government approved the law establishing a fundamental change, which is that all of the tax pensions become exclusively financed by social contributions, without the State intervening. In 2007, already with the Socialist Party's government, measures such as the increase in paid time to qualify for a pension are considered to be lowered by contributions to the employer. In 2011 it turns out that the retirement age in 2027 is 67 years old, it goes from fifteen to twenty-five years the period to calculate the pension's regulatory base, increases from thirty-five to thirty-seven years the age needed to collect 100% of the pension, recovers the supplement of minimum pensions for those people who have experienced a work precariousness throughout their lives and, for the first time, freezes pensions. In 2012—Government of the People's Party, with Rajoy—, infamous labour reform, reform of the unemployment system, the Law of December 2013 puts the colophon to these reforms. What are they bringing with you? They definitely untie the update of the IPC pensions, there can only be as a 0.25% rise, the sustainability factor is introduced, they then advance the entry into force for the year 2019, and that will take into account life expectancy; that is, the more you live, the less you will charge for pensions. In short, this is complemented by looting at the bottom of the pension reserve. In the years of attacks on the working class, while the orders of the masters of the European Union are being complied with, the evacuation of capital, corruption, the subsidisation of the Church, the bailout of the bank, the rescue of highways, increasing the benefit of companies by reducing their obligations; attacks on the social majority and benefits to the minority with the privileges and capital. These measures are particularly minor in Galicia. First, because we have the lowest pensions in the Spanish state and a higher percentage of pensioners in relation to our population; pensions are the only income that enters many homes and are thousands of households where the only income from benefits is pensions. And secondly, because it adds to other measures that are also tremendously unfair, such as drug coke, residence coke, IVE rise, water, light, fuel. And today we have a massive impoverishment of the pensioners and pensioners; almost 60% of the Greek pensioners are below the minimum wage, the average is 15 points below the average state; it is particularly worrying about the situation of women: one in four women over 65 is below the poverty line. While banks have been put into billions of euros, 60 billion euros, which are already declared not to be recoverable, 60 billion euros!, tax amnesties for fraudsters, act with the greatest of the hardness and cruelty against those who have committed as the only crime to work hard throughout their lives. Clearly, we are faced with an ideological decision, it's not a technical matter, it's not a matter of resources, because there's obviously another way to raise. The BNG has presented a number of initiatives to go back to where the money is, which is at the top stage, not cutting the seat belt to the social majority, but the roadmap is to sink into the neoliberal line of individualizing and regulating work relationships and taking measures aimed at hindering access and reducing the length of pensions. It is not a question — I insist — simply of resources, it is ideological, it is of the lie that is established about the sustainability of the pension system. Obviously, the first step to take would be another economic model and going to dismantle the lies introduced. The first is that the Spanish State spends a lot of money on pensions. The Spanish State has a lower pension cost than the rest of the European Union; it spends less than 10.5% of its GDP; Italy, 15.8%; Greece, 14.3%; France, 13.8%; Portugal, 13%. If the Spanish State had equalized pensions, for example, like Italy, it would raise €57.300 million; if it paid now, they would still be free €34,000 million. Another question of where resources can be drawn: higher wages do not contribute to social security; from EUR 3,751 it is not paid. If all those wages, which are the highest incomes, were to be paid annually, they would be raised 7 billion euros. Stop entering the state 4.600 million euros for the resignations of private pensions. If those private pensions hadn't unloaded, which is the bank incentive, we would have 4,700 million more. And in the Social Security box, all social security costs are discounted, staff payments, current expenses, investments, EUR 4 billion a year. I mean, we would have at least 40 billion euros more a year on these issues alone. Then we can talk about what is given to the Church, the Royal House, the Army... And then — the question is obvious — it is necessary to change the current labour market, of poverty and precariousness, by another of wages and decent conditions. In 2011, with a labour market no longer flourishing, but still without entry into force these disastrous labour reforms, Social Security had a surplus of €2,300 million. It is clear that, with the labour market they have implemented, low wages, increase in contracts per hour, unpaid hours, etc., because these figures result. And then also a question, that mantra that Galicia is deficient in pensions; that is, it's a lie. And besides, they don't want to count the more than 300,000 people, the Greeks and the Greeks, who work outside of Galicia, who travel outside of Galicia, but who then, when they collect their pensions, only count Galicia, when the income to the box doesn't want to count Galicia. We can talk about the 90 billion tax fraud that the Business Tech Association has calculated is tax fraud. I mean, it's an ideological model, it's a matter of not wanting to raise, it's a matter of wanting to introduce the mantra of the inability to maintain the pension system. That is why the BNG, in the face of these new attempts to reform the pension system that they intend to introduce, presents this initiative, which goes in the opposite direction. First, it is to repeal the labour reforms that have led to this infamous labour market and poverty; then all policy measures are taken for the adoption of a new labour and social legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u84	...which replaces lost rights as a result of these successive labour reforms, which favors new rights and regulations that improve living and working conditions and strengthen the working class in front of the capital, the recognition of retirement rights again at the age of 65...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u86	...to establish a calculation of the regulatory basis by the basis of the assessment of a ten-year period, to establish the minimum amount of pensions in the minimum interprofessional wage and to eliminate discrimination penalties in access to pensions for part-time employees; i.e. a whole series of measures that change that labour market and allow the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u87	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Prado, thank you, thank you. Your time is up. Mrs. Prado, your time is up. Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u88	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. "If there's anything I won't touch, it'll be pensions; I'll put the scissors all but the pensions." That's what Mr. Rajoy said before he got to the government. Of course, it was the time he was in the opposition, it was when he was talking about the socialists going up the EVI "to the chuches," and that nothing had to do with what happened later when he came in to rule. What did he do? The first thing he did was to introduce the drug co-op, a measure that in three years, in 2014, in 2015 and 2016, was a cost of EUR 800 million per year for pensioners, while what was re-evaluated was EUR 200 million, i.e. a cost four times higher than what was increasing pensions; the suspension of the application of the recovery of purchasing power; the introduction of the stability factor, which introduced the flaps to extend to the end of the person's life; a labour policy for those older than 52 years that caused unemployment, who paid less and ended early retirements. At the same time, a tightening of early retirement, and the most important and the most serious, which most affected the pension pocket, which was the reduction of income in the Social Security box. Income reduced by a reform that has introduced and that has boosted precariousness, a precariousness that was at some point where, with an increase in the number of memberships by 3.18%, the income of contributions decreased by 8%; especially significant in Galicia, in which, in the last quarter — and is data from the INE, not the Socialist Party — the salary cost is below 10% of the average at the state level. That is why, when this honourable Member was listening this morning to President Feijóo talking about his senior policy, about the Government of the People's Party, because he had a sort of space-temporal situation problem and thought for a moment he was in Copenhagen, in the Palace of Christiansborg, not from now on in Parliament, since he remembered more Nordic policies than those that are launching the People's Party. And how did you manage the expenses? For this was perhaps the most scandalous of all: it's pulling the pension reserve bottom. Thank you — yes! — for that inheritance received, so many times cursed and mentioned by the People's Party, they were able to spend in five years what we would save in ten years. They found 66,000 euros, they're just over 10 billion euros, and we're on our way to completely empty. Now it's up to you to manage your own inheritance. The political management and the increase in the number of pensioners — since the Socialist Party will not blame the People's Party, of course — the fruit of the boom of the 1980s and an increase in life expectancy, is causing it to fail — and will fail — the most important part of the welfare state, which works as a solidarity and redistributive action, which guarantees social cohesion in this country and which is one of the foundations — as it said — of the welfare state. There are 880,000 people between 32 and 52 years old who are the Greeks and the Greeks who are going to see their pensions and to whom, surely, no one, today, can assure them that they will perceive them. From the Socialist Group we have considered and have been defending for a long time that there are commitments that this government has to put on the table and start fulfilling. The first, a political commitment, clear in the Toledo Pact, the point of dialogue where it should be established. A social commitment to social agents, who are the ones who have completely changed, those who have not been heard in these years and those who have not been taken into account. A legal-constitutional commitment; it is also necessary to strengthen the Constitution to ensure the perception of pensions for our seniors, and to put down — as Mrs Prado Cores said — those laws of the People's Party that only they did was to increase the risk where this pension system is. Today we present a substitution amendment, where we focus on some particular aspects of women, minimum pensions. By the way, Mrs. Prado Cores, in that journey she did throughout the pension system, the history of the pension system, forgot to mention that Mr. Zapatero's Government was what increased during her term of office by 50% the minimum pensions for people who have a son or daughter in charge, and, of course, the socialists felt very proud that he was the only president of democracy who did so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u90	To increase the contribution of training contracts, which is also very important to re-fill the pension portfolio. Finally, Mrs Prado Cores, we hope that today — I do not see her very convinced — will be able to reach an understanding, an agreement on this matter, because, although — I repeat — the point where we must reach political commitments in this area is the Toledo Pact, which is the epicenter of all policies to support the pension system, the debate here in Galicia too is fundamental, and — as you said — we are directly affected. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u92	Thank you. I also begin by greeting the pensioners who spoke at the doors of this Parliament today. And I mean, we're going to vote in favour of this initiative. In principle, we agree with the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. The situation in Greece is particularly worrying, which is still known to all of us. And just putting on the table some of the data that the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block had already mentioned, as around 60% of the pensions in Greece are below the threshold of poverty or the abysmal difference that exists on the average of the pensions in Greece that we find in the rest of the Spanish state, should indicate to us the urgency in which we are to take action as soon as possible. One of the issues we wanted to highlight is the false neutrality of the frameworks in which this debate is being put. The main problem is that a large number of demagogic arguments are coming out, a large number of biased arguments and, above all, part of them. It is intended to reduce the question as if it were merely a technical debate, so it seems that the views that speak of the inability of the public pension system were neutral, when in fact we are faced with a topic completely crossed by the political model that we want to establish. It's not a technical matter, it's an ideological matter. And we're on a subject where there's no reconciliation possible, or at least we understand it that way. There are two models faced. On the one hand, there are those who bet on going to dismantle the public system to favor private funds, and on the other hand, we find those that we bet on by a model of redistribution of wealth and a fair model. Some topics are actually being used, such as the exhaustion of the Social Security reserve fund, to try to consolidate this demagogic report that there is no material possibility of continuing with the public pension model. Starting from an excessively simplistic scheme, we could summarize that there is a disproportionate retirement/active ratio that makes it unsustainable for workers to continue to support retirements. For us, this is a false, false, simplistic and questionable frame, at least; but it's neither random nor new. The regime has been trying for a long time to put this idea into public opinion, and it only responds to taking new steps towards privatization and marketing of elements of life that so far seemed unto be untouchable, by the political and social consensus reached, and that, when this pact is broken, which was already insufficient, we attend a continuous process of progressive destruction of the common, progressive destruction of the social, in all fields. And pensions are one of the fundamentals. It seems increasingly evident the short circuit between the exercise or the possibility of the exercise of certain rights of the majority of society against the profitability of large concentrated groups that advance on the commercialization of these rights. And the debate on pensions, as I said, has to be framed in a much more general debate about income distribution and work, because it's not true that the main problem is aging. The main problem lies in the whole of austerity policies. These were the ones that raised high unemployment rates, those that promoted part-time employment, those that encouraged precarious work and dismantled the network of care. And, as is logical, the lowest job and the worst wages, obviously lower contributions. And pensions are not an isolated case. The scheme has a very clear strategic objective, which goes through the public policy. And in this case the Socialist Party and the People's Party were especially those who favored this accumulation by disposing of working classes. And we've been watching numerous reforms that have been deepening into an increasingly unfair model, which increasingly harms minorities. These reforms of the Socialist Party and of the People's Party came under the hands of the European Union's proposals, and they collaborated decisively in the development of neoliberal policies, which came under the mandate of the European Union, to reduce the number of public pensions. Also, before I finished, I wanted to make a little mention. The feminist economy has essential contributions in this debate. The shift from reproductive work to homes, the constant subordination of reproductive work to the productive sphere, and gender inequalities as far as working conditions have far-reaching consequences on pension issues. In fact, the gender gap in pensions does not diminish, it goes up. The average amount we charge for the Greek women compared to men is almost 300 euros of difference. That's why it's urgent to visualize reproductive work, and to name it, to visualize it, and to recognize it so it doesn't fall exclusively into the middle of the population. And, as I said, the solutions that we have to give you to this problem go through joint solutions, ending with austerity policies as a whole, shielding the public pension system, guaranteeing its purchasing power beyond the change in economic environment. And for that we could say that what we need is to balance the unequal distribution of income between work and capital. And I am finished with a phrase that should be known to all, that we should bear in mind in our political participation, which is, "For us, nothing; and for all, everything." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction, my staff and that of the People's Group, because Mrs Prado Cores' photographic session abroad with the protesters had not prevented her from attending this debate. I'm sure you can send a copy of the photo to the mayor of Moaña, who will thank you very much. [[Applause]] In the end, demonstrations are more important than rigorous debate. The rigorous debate doesn't matter, and it's obvious listening to the one who preceded me here in this rostrum. Look, according to the representatives of the renewed and authentic left, the problems of the sustainability of our pension system are an invention of the financial elite to alarm the population and thus privatize its savings. All this, of course, with the ever-necessary complicity of the People's Party, traitor to that alienated and ignorant people—which some would say—who would insist stubbornly on voting it, election after election—also with the betrayal of the PSOE, but that's only when they don't rule with them, eh!—. As a macabre tale it's not bad. But to talk about pensions, I think, better, more realistic literary genres. When it comes to the problems of citizens, the rigour of the technical report is preferable to the poetics of the tragic tale. And a treatment of objective data shows a very different reality, gentlemen. Look, it was this People's Party that in 1996, in its first council of ministers, he had to approve a 3,000 million peseta credit to pay the pensions of a Social Security who left the socialist gentlemen on the brink of bankruptcy. And it was this People's Party that later created the Social Security Reserve Fund to ensure the payment of pensions in the event of a Social Security deficit, to pay pensions in the case of a Social Security deficit, a question which the Socialist Party's lords do not seem to understand. [[Applause]] Look, when you left us Social Security with a deficit of more than 7,700 million euros, what did you expect us to do? Frozen them, as you did in 2011, or told the citizens that they were hiring a private pension plan, as did your minister Solbes? No, Your Honor, that's not our model. We, as always, hold back, hold our heads, take responsible measures that you were unable to take and, once again, secure the social protection system that you once again placed at the edge of the breach, the same minister again! [[Applause]] And now, Mrs. Blanco, we're called for better management. Mrs Blanco is calling for a better management of the pension guarantee fund, the same socialists who refused to go into the bottom of the nearly 15,000 million euros of surplus that had Social Security, those socialists themselves. What were their priorities then? Because pension support, no. Now I'm assuming you're leaving 66,000 euros in the bottom box. All right, say when. It was in 2011, in the same year that you dropped €2,000 million to pensioners in this country, 2.9 % of the pensioners' purchasing power. I ask you: why then did they not use the pension fund for what was planned, which was to pay the pensions. [[Applause]] Tell those who lost 2,9 % of their purchasing power in 2011 to them. Look, it's worth more to square macroeconomic figures. [[Murmurs.]] It was the biggest cut in the history of public pensions, the only freezing in forty years of democracy, and they now intend to teach. It's incredible! Look, it was the PP that ensured that this didn't happen again, necessarily revalued 0.25% of pensions annually. By the way, at least that, what you don't count is that you can revalue half a point above the IPC. I hope at any rate we can do it. And since that criterion has been applied, by the way, pensions have improved. In Galicia today 1,148 million more euros are paid in pensions than in 2011. And it was the PP that avoided the ransom to which Government Zapatero has sent us; a ransom, by the way — which they do not count — which I suppose reduced pensions by 15% in Ireland, 40% in Greece by "Alexis, Podemos is with you" and 40% in Portugal. [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we know that Social Security has problems. Do you know what the social security problem is? It's these gentlemen, it's this one! Do you recognize this red curve that you see here? It's the 3,300,000 people you've been unemployed during your government, that's the problem. And what is the solution? What is the solution that proposes us to the left? [[Applause]] Derogate the laws that reversed that situation and return to the laws that led us to it. How could it not have happened to us before?Oh, my God! What a genius! And it hadn't happened more than to the people on the left. That's good! Look, you invent the stories you want, but the reality is that you've delayed the average age of incorporation into the labour market, you've diminished the number of years quoted during your working life and you've raised the average life expectancy, and that forces you to rethink things. And ignoring these variables means condemning the failure of a magnificent protection system. That's why the Toledo Pact was pushed. By the way, some recommendations were made in that Toledo Pact; for example, that of a pension revaluation index other than the IPC. Why don't you now comply with the agreement we made in the Toledo Pact? And it was Mr. Zapatero's law that established the need for a sustainability factor that takes account of the increase in life expectancy. Do you also deny Mr. Zapatero? Look, gentlemen, if you want to bury yourself for 40 years of socialism, you're right, you can do it. But Spaniards also have the right to remember, and we will remember the sacrifice that it cost us to pass that in Spain 3 jobs were destroyed for every 9 pensioners, as in 2011, to create 7 jobs for every 9 pensioners, as it is now. We'll remember the effort I made to destroy 3,300,000 jobs to create more than 500,000 jobs a year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u96	We will remind the Greeks what it cost us to pass from the 50,000 unemployed in the last year of the Bipartite to the 22,000 new jobs last year. And we keep working, Your Honor. Even if 2 out of 3 Greek workers have an indefinite full-time contract, we want more. And although indefinite recruitment increases in Galicia at 14.92%, we want more. And although full-time recruitment grows 5 points above the partial, we want more. And that's why we're going to promote a law of employment, so we're going to invest more than 900 million euros to create more than 80,000 jobs, and that's why we're going to keep putting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u97	Thank you, Mr. Paz, your time is up. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, thank you, Mr. Pazos. Time's up. Time's up! Thank you, thank you, time's up. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado's replica tour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u98	First of all, Mr President, I hope you will inform Mr Peaces that no one has warned the BNG Group of any change in the agenda. I say it to be fair. No one has warned BNG of any change in the agenda. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u99	No, no, sorry, Mrs. Prado. That's not exactly true. I warned the exchange spokesman, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u100	What spokesperson?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u101	To your spokesperson.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u102	Don't!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u103	No, please, we're not going to discuss this because I talked to all the speakers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u104	Man, man...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u105	No, sorry. [[Murmurs.]] No, no... well, yeah, but I know exactly what happened. Sorry... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Let's see! Sorry, I think when I talked to you, I said... Sorry, we're all reasonable. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know what I told you, what happens is that, when I talked to you, we probably talk about something else, that you already know what it is. And perhaps, perhaps, he could throw himself off the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, we're not going into any more dialogue about this. Sorry, don't bother me because... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, perfect! [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, that's it, that's it. It's not in the use of the word, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up. That's it, it's not in the use of the word. Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it. No, it's no disrespect, I've communicated... sorry, it's all right, it's all right. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor anymore. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. Don't make me... No, sorry, that's it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I don't know how to explain what happened, but I'm aware of what I reported. Mr. Villares informs me, Mr. Leicega informs me of the changes of the day. Well, if you let me talk to you, you can understand me; otherwise, you can't understand me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you don't let me talk, it's impossible for you to understand me. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, you don't need to talk, I'm talking. He needs to listen. I want to tell you that, when I talked to you, it's quite true that we're lying in something else. I think I told you that Mrs. Prado was awaiting a negotiation to change this not-law proposal as well. Did I tell you or not? All right, all right! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I think I informed her that there were subsequent changes on the agenda. In any case, it is quite true that now Mrs. Prado told me that she didn't know that she had... but that's a problem that I might not have provided. So... [[Murmurs.]] In any case, it's clear. I think it's all clear. Mrs. Prado, your replica. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet! No, no, silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Members make statements... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado... [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Excuse me, what do you want the word for, Mr. Puy? What's that for? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I've already told you that it could be dealt with in another plenary session. I told her... [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, it's just that if we all start talking, it's something that's clear to me. Was it for that? Of course, that's why! [[Murmurs.]] I told him. That's what I told him. [[Strong murmurers.]] Quiet, please! The thing is simpler, the thing is simpler. [[Strong murmurers.]] Sorry, silence! That's how we all understand each other. That offer was already made by me, the one from which this question could be asked in another plenary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr. Paz, if you don't understand, you understand now. There's time for everything. There's time for everything, and I'm explaining it. [[Strong murmurers.]] In any case, I think this is sufficiently debated. Mrs. Prado, your question can be dealt with in another plenary session. And now, if you like, you can make your reply to the non-law proposition. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Vega, please. Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u106	Continued abuse of the rights of Members and Members and such discretionary use on one side and on the other, let's go, the truth is that it is quite scary. I understand that Mr. Paz's style of macarrism leads him to use anything and what he was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u107	That expression is not correct either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u108	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u109	No, it's not right. It's not right. [[Strong murmurers.]] I understand, Mrs. Prado, that's not right, it's not right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u110	What could have been a Presidency mistake...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u111	Quiet, quiet, please! I know it's complex now, it's complex now, but we're already finishing up. Take it easy. Come on, come on! Go ahead, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u112	We were talking about pensions, we were talking about thousands of Greeks and Welsh people who are impoverished, who have been impoverished by these fantastic measures of the People's Party. I suppose you will vote against this initiative, because what you are asking is that the plan be moved to the PP and that the Socialist Party be cast into the plane, which led to this current situation. So, I suppose some and others will vote in favour of this initiative to change their course, to change their course completely and, instead of further policing the working class — that today's poor workers give, as a result, poor pensioners tomorrow — that we are able to change our course. So I say that, after that speech, what will be done will be to vote in favour of the initiative, which is to repeal all the measures put in place by the Socialist Party and the People's Party. It'll be the least, because, if not, your tone, Mr. Pazos, would have been very bad, but you keep keeping it. With which it must not be so bad, when they do not derogate it, it must not be so bad for you; for the BNG, yes. And, look, the pension problem is not a problem of taxpayers, it's a problem of distribution, it's an issue of unequal distribution. It's a problem of unequal distribution of wealth. And with all the measures they have put in place with the excuse of the crisis, that division is increasingly unequal. Data: 100 persons in the Spanish state are engulfed around €200 billion, 19% of the GDP in the Spanish state. And in the last year, it grew by 4.5%. However, eight and a half million pensioners in the Spanish state represent 12% of GDP, i.e. 8 million people have quite less income than 100 people. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about a tremendously unequal distribution of wealth, of measures that allow that unequal sharing and that it is necessary to change those measures in order to go another direction. Data: the maximum pension in the Spanish state is the highest in the European Union, the second highest in the European Union, and the lowest in the European Union. That is to say, we are in an unequal Spanish state in incomes, unequal pensions, unequal treatment in the population; with which it is evident that it has arrived here for measures that have been put in place and that, to change, it is necessary to take action in one or another direction. And some of them are the ones that I propose here today in the Galician Nationalist Block. With regard to the amendment of the Socialist Party — which corrects it is wise, Madam Member of the Socialist Party, and it is clear that the measures taken by the Socialist Party are responsible for this situation; if you are to rectify, I bless you, we make a transaction, which would be to add part of the points you propose, with the exception of the 1st, 2nd, 9th and 11. That is to say, we would accept the addition of measures to take with the exception of 1, 2, 9 and 11, and the initiative would remain with the resolution of the BNG and with that addition of those points. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Another matter of order? What is it? Give a voice to Mr. Fernández Leicega's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u114	In view of the sensitivity that exists in the President and in the members of Parliament about some expressions, I would ask the People's Party Member to remove the expression "to fight", which has synonyms that can be offensive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u115	What expression?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u116	"Guindar." It has synonyms that can be offensive to this group. I don't ask you to remove the set of interventions, but only that word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u117	Guindar? You'll say it, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u118	By not replacing it with the term that is commonly used from the bench, which would be "robber", if it seems, I replace it with "retreat".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u119	Right, right. All right, yeah, you get it. Let's turn to the votes. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that's a change of expression. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry... [[Strong murmurers.]] No, I'm sorry, Mr. Leicega, I think that's another expression. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u120	We voted the non-law proposals, and we started with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government to cover the existing demand for public squares in children's schools. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block and to the En Marea Parliamentary Group were accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to cover the existing demand for public squares in children's schools. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u121	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Carmen Santos. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demand from the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice for the increase of the tax office plant in Galicia and its staffing with a greater number of resources, as well as the State Attorney General's Office for the creation of an exclusive anti-corruption prosecutor for Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u122	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García. The amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales and the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group were accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the development by the Government of Galicia of a feasibility study on the rescue of the AP-9 motorway for its public management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u123	We now vote on the proposal which has been debated last but lastly, which is that of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Ms Maria Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the Central Government to improve the public pension system. It is accepted as adding the amendment of the Socialist Party, except for points l, 2, 9 and 11. Is that so? [[Affirmation.]] That's right. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to improve the public pension system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u124	We now vote for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río, on the improvement of the regulatory framework governing the crime of usurpation of immovable property and the signing of a bilateral agreement on this matter, and action in cases where the occupants are at risk of social exclusion. The amendment of En Marea was not accepted, but a transaction with the Socialist Parliamentary Group is pending. Has she? [[Affirmation.]] Then read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. The compromise with the Socialist Party says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: 1. To address the Government of Spain in order to initiate proceedings to improve the regulatory framework governing the crime of usurpation of immovables, e.g. (a) the amendment to Article 245 of the Criminal Code in order to reorient and adapt the criminal type of usurpation to the current situation; (b) the legal empowerment of existing proceedings by quick trial as a model procedure for offences involving the occupation of immovables within the regulation of Article 795 of the Criminal Settlement Act; and (c) the legislative amendments necessary to enable the adoption of precautionary measures for the eviction of immovables from the beginning of the summary instruction. 2. To call for the drafting of a protocol between the Government Delegation in Galicia and the High Prosecutor's Office to ensure that, under the current article 795 of the Criminal Corrections Act, crimes related to the occupation of property are promoted to be the subject of rapid trials. 3. In those cases where the occupants are families at risk of social exclusion, arbitrate in collaboration with the municipalities the necessary measures for their relocation through the various programmes launched by the Council of Galicia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u126	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and fifteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the improvement of the regulatory framework governing the crime of usurpation of immovables and the request to the Delegation of the Government and to the Prosecutor for the interim signing of a bilateral agreement on this matter, as well as the action to be taken in those cases where the occupants are families at risk of social exclusion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u127	We are now voting on non-law proposals Nos. 6 and 8, which are from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the People's Parliamentary Group. One on the development by the German Government of a global strategy for rail freight transport and the demands to be made to the central government. And another on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the connection of Galicia, the communities of the north of Spain and the northern region of Portugal to the Atlantic corridor in the revision of the Regulation of the "Connect Europe" mechanism to be held in 2018. There's a transaction between the two of them that made me come in. It's a long deal, they know the groups, and we voted on it, therefore. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the connection of Galicia, the communities of the north of Spain and the northern region of Portugal with the Atlantic corridor in the revision of the Regulation of the "Connect Europe" mechanism to be carried out in 2018 and the Non-Law Proposal of the G.P of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the development by the Government of Greece of a global strategy for the carriage of goods by rail and the demands to be made to the Central Government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. This text was therefore adopted as a result of the two non-legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u128	We voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Maria Dolores Toja. Is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group accepted? Is there a transaction? [[Murmurs.]] If you'd like to read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u129	The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to carry out the necessary studies to determine the actions to be carried out so that helicopters enrolled in the Galician Coast Guard Service are fully public, as well as their operation and maintenance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. We therefore vote... sorry. Yeah? [[Laughter]] We therefore vote for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of the necessary managements to prevent the replacement of the Sikorsky S-76 C+ helicopters, known as Fishing I and Fishing II, by the Dauphin 365 who belonged to the Union of Galicia in 2005. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u131	What do you want the word for, Mr. López Crespo? Excuse me, give your voice to the scene. [[Interruptions.]] He began his speech by saying that he was going to vote on this bill affirmatively and now he just voted against it. [[Murmurs.]] You have the right to vote. Proceed, therefore. That's the regulation. I don't cheat on the regulation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Proceed, Mr. Crespo. Explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, why are they excited? I started yesterday, Mrs. Toja, encouraging her to calm down, telling her that we would vote yes. [[Laughter]] Telling him we were going to vote that if I started my speech. [[Murmurs.]] That's what gives me the right to ask to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u133	Then do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u134	After I finished the speech, I spoke to you, and I told you that we were going to ask for a point vote. And you said to me, yes, no problem, these two points that we present to you from our amendment and the third from the amendment to the BNG, where you ask the helicopter board to buy them to be public. Now I come here and I find my word against yours, that you make an amendment to what I have no knowledge of and where the public character of these helicopters goes around. So the People's Group doesn't want to be incoherent, it still maintains the commitment that there will be helicopters, that they will run 365 days a year, 24 hours a day, and that's why now it votes not, because we don't get a public character where it was said that it was going to be the third point. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u135	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Toja? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u136	To say that the "public service" was already yesterday in the amendment that presented the Block and that it was only added "to carry out studies..."...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u137	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u138	It's just that you're missing the truth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u139	Thank you. That's it. The debate is over. Interpellations. Open the doors. You've finished the vote, please. We moved on to the fifth point, which is that of interpellations, and, as it has been said, it was welcomed to the one that appeared in the first place. Interpellation by Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas and Mr. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of En Marea on the employment policy of the Government of Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u140	Mr. Lago has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u141	Good morning. I hope that the banishment and the fuss is just an insult to this Member and not to turn his back on the Galician society, which considers that this is the main problem the country has. Say it to the citizenry one day and another every time he's asked. [[Applause]] But let's bring the job theme to this room and abandon, fuss, disinterest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u142	Well, what do you want me to do? I didn't listen to what happened because I was talking to the deputy secretary right now. I apologize. In any case, I suppose they can fix it between you; I don't think it's such a serious subject. Go ahead, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u143	Debates on unemployment, wage devaluation, women's pay breaks, labour poverty, inequalities, accidents at work have to be present in this House and to be interested in Members and Members when these issues are discussed. I know that the evolution of the labour market goes beyond the responsibilities of a government. The government doesn't have all the merit of the job being destroyed or the job being created because society, economy, is more complex. So to evaluate the action of a government, the results of its economic and labour policy, the best tool is to make a comparison to what happens in other territories, in this case our country with the rest of the autonomous communities that make up the state. I would like to say something that I would like Members and Members to listen carefully: the autonomous community with the worst work evolution since the year 2007 in the Spanish state is Galicia. These are data from the National Institute of Statistics, EPA, comparing the first quarter of 2009, when the PP began to govern, with the first quarter of 2017. And the comparison of these dates shows that the evolution of labour market variables was the worst in all cases: less employment, more unemployment, more job insecurity and less active population. Well, this is an interrogation. I am respectful of Parliament's formulas, and I even have that claim that when I ask a question in the Committee on Economic Affairs, if you answer me. As this is an interpellation, I'm going to ask; I'm leaving the analysis, I'm going to ask. Mr. Employment Adviser, how can you explain that in Galicia there are 136,700 jobs less than when you started ruling eight years ago? How could it be that after three years of GDP growth we have a much lower level of employment than we had in 2009, at the hardest moment of the big recession? How can you explain that in the last two legislations the destruction of employment in Galicia was 12%, while in the middle of the state it was 4%? That is, the destruction of jobs in our multiplicity country is 275 percent higher than the average state. Counsellor, how can you explain that Galicia is the autonomous community that has lost most of the seventeen that make up the Spanish State between 2009 and 2017? Change in business, Mr. Industry Advisor, how can it be explained that since 2009 we have lost 46,000 jobs in industry, one of the four that was there when you started ruling? And that makes Galicia — listen well — be the autonomous community of the state that most industrial jobs have lost. Madam Counsellor of the Rural Environment, how can you explain that, despite our productive specialization, of our competitive advantages in agriculture, livestock, fishing, we lost 20,000 jobs, one in five of them? And that makes Galicia the autonomous community that has lost most employment in the primary sector since 2009. How can you explain, Mr. Unemployment Counsellor, that after three years of that the power discourse calls "recovery" continues to be in Galicia 217,100 unemployed people, 57,000 more than when they started ruling? Mr Social Policy Counsellor — I believe he sits there — how can you explain that the number of homes in Galicia that all members in unemployment have been unemployed has increased by 65% since he held the Board of Trustees? It's already 75,000 households that have no income, no wages, no pension, no unemployment benefit; they've increased by 100 percent. How can it explain — fundamental question — to the Galician Union that since 2009 unemployment had grown in Galicia — attention! — six times more than the average of Spain; six times more the rate of variation of the stopped, unemployed population than in the average of Spain? How does it explain that since 2009 Galicia has been the autonomous community in which unemployment has grown the most among the seventeen autonomous communities in the state, including Andalusia? What explanation does the positive differential that our country had at the rate of unemployment, which was 5.2 -- our unemployment rate was 5.2 points below the average state -- now it's only 1.4 points and if that positive differential had been reduced to 73%? How can you explain that there are over 90,000 people who have been unemployed for more than two years, while in 2009, at the time of the big recession, there were 22,000? That is, the very long-term unemployed, those excluded from the labour market at this stage called recovery, are four times as many as there were at the time of the great recession. I'm done. Mr Feijóo, how can you explain that Galicia is the autonomous community of the State with the worst work evolution of the seventeen communities that make up the Spanish State? It's not that we're among the worst, that we're the worst, the worst, the most job that's destroyed, the most unemployment, the most job lost in industry or in the primary sector. Counsellor, what is the explanation of this Welsh anomaly? How does it make sense for us to be the worst autonomous community in the evolution of the labour market from 2009 to 2017, in the time you've been ruling? Is there any explanation of this anomaly of our labour market which causes so much suffering to our people that it is not the economic policy of their government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u144	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Lago, I would like to thank you, in fact, for bringing to this House the situation of the labour market and therefore the main objective, the main challenge we have from the Government, from the different councils, to fight effectively against unemployment and above all to create jobs and create quality jobs, which is the real objective. The only thing that draws my attention is that you bring it here, this debate, and once again you sit down and try to bias and try to exaggerate your statistical analysis, referring to the situation and the comparison since 2009, and you call me attention because that's exactly what you know is not realistic. You say in the first quarter of 2009 Galicia was at the hardest of the big recession. That gave his text and said it in his intervention, but he gave the knowledge that this first quarter was the first quarter in which the German gross domestic product fell in interannual terms; he knows it perfectly. The first quarter of 2009 was the first quarter in which the German GDP fell internationally. And he knows that these negative values continued to fall permanently until the second quarter of 2013, and often more than the first quarter of 2009, which was 1.4. He even knows that a double recession was registered in 2012 and 2013. The funny thing is, knowing all this, you know, you've been here making a comparison since 2009. Look, Your Honor, since January 2014 we have already recovered 70,000 jobs, we have 11% more assets among people over 35 years of age than we had in the first quarter of 2009, you know that the occupation in this group has also grown by 4.5% and you know that the employment rate between the ages of 25 and over has again surpassed 71% in Galicia. And all this positive data, Mr. Lago, are also affiliation data and the active population survey; therefore, they are not data from this government. What is hard to understand is why you exaggerate from the statistical point of view and try to change a reality that is totally different in 2017 than you want to move here. Even if you want to talk about the 2017 EPA, which would be good if you were to focus on it, because if you take that data in the first quarter of 2017 we have a good scenario, because you know -- and it would be good to bring it here also to the debate -- that for the first time in five years an increase in the population wants to be incorporated into the labour market. A situation totally different from that in Spain, which knows that in the state as a whole the active population has decreased by 0.6%. That's why, simply, Mr. Lago, they're not interested in an analysis and a diagnosis of the labour market situation, they're not interested! I regret that this is so, but in any case you ask me and I will logically give you the answer to all the suggestions that you have moved me. And you know that the Government's goal is to create 20,000 jobs this year, that's the goal we have in government. And all the economic indicators are marking that there's a forecast of positive growth, and they're reviewing all the prognosis upwards; it rises, by the way, Galicia's evolution is being marked above the European Union. So, I don't intend to come here and fall into self-comprehensiveness at all, but if I think we're in a good situation, I think we're obliged to send a message of optimism, because the data so corroborates it, and knows perfectly the importance of transferring confidence to markets as well. So we're going to keep working so that these macroeconomic data, which is the government's goal, are still being macroeconomic data in a positive way. You bring here a Galician in black, I bring here a Galician in green. And that green Galicia is proving that Galician macroeconomic data is positive. The challenge is, logically, that these positive data can be transferred permanently to families and therefore families are the protagonists of recovery. When you talk to me about social policy, I think I should also say here that today we have 27,600 homes less with all your assets in unemployment than at the worst of the moment of the crisis. That's the reality. And it's also true that today we have 57,000 more homes with all their assets occupied. That's the reality. I therefore believe that this is where the debate must be focused. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it seems that here, except in Marea, we trust Galicia, we trust our abilities, we trust ambition to go ahead and, above all, we trust that we need to work for a much more solid productive model and generate added value. That's why I'm surprised that you don't want to talk about employment and industrial policy policies here, I'm very surprised. He wants to come to talk about employment, and he doesn't talk about employment policies or about industrial policy. And the government has employment policy and industrial policy. I think that's where the debate needs to be centered. He knows we've increased the budgets by 16.4%. You know we have an employment agenda, where we're reviewing all the measures to encourage greater employment integration, a job insertion for families that are worse off with long-term unemployed, and trying to promote final recruitment. And he also knows that that Agenda 20 for Employment, in that job insertion target, if he's dealing with the youngest, because the youngest is one of the priorities. That is why I can point out to you that tomorrow at the Board of Trustees we will approve a new youth employment programme, which is equipped with EUR 9 million, to encourage recruitment, not only on an indefinite basis for younger workers, but also for recruitment by non-profit entities, but also for the promotion of self-employment. A youth employment programme where we will also support indefinite recruitment of up to EUR 14,000 in the case of children under 30 years of age. [[Applause]] We also have specific actions in this employment policy to promote the role of women in the labour market, to promote the employment of young people and girls and also to bring this training and entrepreneurship to rural areas. Finally, a specific employment policy, which seeks to promote employment and which seeks to promote employment. But I would like to talk about the main employment policy that has to have an economy, Mr. Lago: industrial policy. Why don't you want to talk about industrial policy when we talk about employment? Why don't you want to talk about innovation, talent and industry gambling? Mr. Lago, In Marea only knows an industrial policy, which is the industrial policy of the veto. You guys veto the automobile, just like they did with Citroën. You guys ban the ship, because they don't want ships built in Navantia to Saudi Arabia. You veto the forest, because you want to dismantle Ence. You guys ban the aeronautical, because you don't want the Rozas aeronautical pole to be developed. You veto Ferrol's logistic LNG hub, because they just voted in Ferrol for the dismantling of Reganosa. You veto, Mr. Lake, the sustainable mining; amazing, vetoing mining in Galicia! Mr. Lago, I'm the veto party, so you can't create a job. This government is a government that knows that employment policy has to be based on an industrial policy that bets on industry and job creation. In that context, I think that is where the debate needs to be. And I regret that obsession you had with making a comparison since 2009, when you know perfectly well that it wasn't the worst situation Galicia had from the point of view of the labour market. I sincerely believe, Mr Lago, that if you want to speak seriously about employment, you have to talk about employment policies and industrial policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u146	Thank you, Mr. Count. Replica, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u147	Mr. Conde, I believe that today you have evidence of the problem with employment policy in this country, and did I ask the Employment Counsellor, and do you know who answered me? The Industry Advisor. That's the problem of this country, which I asked the Employment Adviser and he said why we don't have an industrial policy debate. [[Applause]] And that's it, and we'll see it when we present the motion that will come up with this interpellation, where there's one of the problems that there is. Because, indeed, there is no one in this country who has exclusive responsibility for the areas of employment. There is no structure within the Galician Union that acts professionally on employment issues. And when asked to the Employment Adviser, the Industry Advisor answers. And that's something that happened, and the People's Party rectified, when the Rural and Fisheries Councils were merged, because, in fact, when asked to the Middle Rural Counsellor, he answered the Fisheries Counsellor, because it wasn't his theme of action. Second idea, I'm surprised, Counselor, that he denies the crisis in 2009. I always understood the speech of the People's Party that Zapatero, that perverse president, denied the crisis. The year 2009 is the year of the great recession, with the fall of GDP of 3.6%, the destruction of hundreds of thousands of jobs. But, well, it's a matter of academic debate. Why am I talking about the year 2009 and 2017? Because it's the balance of what happened, and it's the balance of its government, because you've been ruling not since 2014, and they've been ruling since 2009, and the balance is the set of that period. Mr Counsellor, I would like to thank you for a question, and I would like the Members and the Members of the People's Party to hear it well: you have not denied a single data of what I said in this House, not one! So all that I said about industrial employment, agricultural employment, unemployment, etc., is not denied by the Galician Union and is therefore what it is, is reality. Of course, you are talking — and it is a longer debate — that the economic cycle should be divided into two elements: the part of recession and the part of GDP growth. I totally agree. But do you know what happens when you do this? Because Galicia is the autonomous community that has been generating less employment since 2014, that Galicia is the autonomous community in which unemployment has been reduced since 2014. Because unfortunately our country has destroyed more jobs at the recessive stage and we are creating less jobs at the expansive stage. And that's what I qualify for anomaly. There's no reason for our country to have worse data from the labour market than Andalusia, that Extremeura, that Catalonia, or that all those countries of self-governing communities have poorly governed territories. In that sense, — I am, of course, accepting it — the Greek economy has an almost complete synchronisation with the Spanish economy, and we have a very high synchronisation with the European Union, because when we share instruments of economic policy, monetary policy by setting an example, it's very difficult. It is not possible for Galicia to grow and the state as a whole to be in recession, and it is not possible for us to be in recession if the state economy is expanding. Therefore, the instrument to measure is the differential, the difference. And what I'm telling you is that in our country in the recession we fall more and in the recovery we grow less. And I end with the last idea, that I told you before and I'll say it again, because I want to say it here: I'm very respectful of Parliament and I like the different parliamentary figures. When there's a question, you wait for what's in front of you to answer. And when you do an interrogation, you interpose, you don't make speeches. I'm going to say in a second: in Commission 3 we have ten minutes to ask a question, I say, but what nonsense is this?, a question is raised in thirty seconds or a minute. Well, this is an interpellation, I'm asking you, and if what I'm wondering is that we're talking about what things we're proposing, it's July 12th, when this interpellation comes up on a motion. I am finished with this idea: there is an anomaly in the labour market in Galicia with regard to the state, because we destroyed more jobs in the recession and created less jobs in the phase of economic expansion. And that's what I -- unless you convince me -- just find an explanation, and it's a government's economic and non-working policy that doesn't think that to deal with the main problem the country has, it doesn't need a Labour Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u148	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Closure round of this plea, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, you actually bring here a series of data that is data that is collected in the statistics. The only anomaly of this inquiry is that you intend to bring here a debate on the situation of the labour market in Galicia, trying to make that comparison since 2009. You know that's not realistic, and you insist on that approach. I also give you data, which you didn't deny either, and I give you data to show you that Galicia is much better today than in 2009. For example, in 2009, in the first quarter, unemployment increased at a rate of 52,000 people per year; that's also a specific figure. And he knows we're better than in the first quarter of 2014, when Galicia's rate exceeded 23% and today it's at 17%. And we're also better off than the whole of Spain and with autonomous communities that today have a much higher rate of unemployment, such as extremitude or Andalusia. And you know, Mr. Lago — giving data — that the continued recovery of the gross domestic product in Galicia began in the third quarter of 2013 and that this recovery of employment began early in 2014. And you know — you've continued to give objective and concrete data — that we've had forty-three consecutive months of unemployment, that in Galicia we already have less than two hundred thousand unemployed people, that we have an annual reduction rate of 9.5%, that Galicia has had the second largest drop since the start of the economic crisis in May. And he also knows that we have a lower unemployment rate than March 2009. And if we talk about affiliations, you also know that they're increasing over a year ago in 22.125 affiliations. He knows that even in terms of quality of indefinite employment is increasing, as is full-time employment. It's data that clearly marks, Mr. Lago, from the point of view of the National Institute of Statistics, also a positive evolution that you don't want to bring here. But, Mr. Lago — I will insist — why don't we talk about reality? Why don't you guys want to talk about industrial politics when we talk about jobs? I'm surprised. Why do you want to make an evolution or an analysis of the evolution of the active population -- which has implicitly done it -- don't want to talk about demography, why don't you want to talk about demography? And why don't you admit that in Galicia the active population is growing in age groups from 35 years old, and you know that the rate of activity of people aged 25 to 54 is squeezing 86%, almost 1.5 points more than in the first quarter of 2009? Why don't you want to talk about girls being studying more and more and so they're not joining the labour market and we have a dropout rate in Galicia that went from 25% to 13%? Why don't you want to find the fall of the active population that you have to look for more in the demographic than in the economy? Why don't you want to talk about being the second autonomous community with a higher rate of aging? Why don't you want to talk about Galicia being the first autonomous community to have a population rate over the age of 65 and which is the highest? Why don't you want to talk about these issues? Why don't you want to talk and acknowledge that Galician migration balance with foreigners between 16 and 29 years of age is positive? Mr Lago, this is to do an analysis and bring to this Parliament a debate that I understand is where it should be located. And I'm sorry it's just that you don't recognize that link between an industrial policy that creates jobs and the labour market itself. And I'm sorry and I don't know what your position is because you didn't want it... you probably don't want to recognize what your position is about Rozas, and you don't want to recognize what your position is about Navantia or about Citroën. The one in your group is clear: an industrial policy of veto, I veto everything that means job creation, in the automobile, in the naval, in the aeronautics, in the mining, in the logistics. It's the veto party on industrial policy. They're in that sense, from a conceptual point of view, disabled to talk about employment policy as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u150	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the agenda of questions. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga, why do you want the word? Give Mr. Leicega a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u151	Only fifteen seconds to apologize to Parliament's plenary and, specifically, to the People's Group on the last non-law proposal of our group, where by mistake we read the transaction as if it were the set of the proposed part of the initiative when both our points were missing. We are the first to regret this because they have not been put to the vote on those points. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u152	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Mr. López Crespo, will you accept my apology? [[Mr. López Crespo utters words that are not perceived.]] Well, yeah, he's sorry, that's an excuse. Well, bad luck, it's an excuse and accept it. And it's good that if there's a mistake an apology will be made. Thank you. I appreciate it. We move on to item 7 of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia of the recent trip to China of the President of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u153	Question by Mr Pazos Couñago, of the People's Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u154	Thank you, President. Any responsible Government — and no doubt the Welshman, presided over by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who is — has an obligation to remain vigilant in the face of the movements and repositionings that are taking place in the world economy as a whole. In a context of a globalized economy, it is clear that the various initiatives driven by the major economic agents of the world significantly condition the strategies for the future of anyone who aspires to develop a prominent role in the world economy as a whole. The People's Group has shown its trust in the goodness of international trade. And the result of this confidence has always supported the various initiatives developed by the Greek Government to foster agreements and create confidence frameworks with different countries that allow trade that yield — and we believe it — in mutual economic benefits. These agreements have led to a positive development of the Greek economy, one of which was its internationalisation, the fruit of which our country's exports have grown exponentially in recent years. The last data we knew today: 10.8 increase in exports in the last quarter, a new historical record of exports. As a result, the German Government could not remain silent before the announcement made in October 2014 by the Chinese President Xi Jinping, of impulse to the strategy called "New Silk Route". Without a doubt, China's abandoning isolationism and firmly incorporating international trade is good news for the Chinese and the international community as a whole. For Galicia the opening of China is an opportunity to internationalize our economy from a double perspective: On the one hand, and in the face of the announcement of important investments made by the Chinese Government, it is possible to present the Greek candidacy to become a privileged recipient of an important part of these investments. And that's why it's essential to discover the competitive advantages of our community: leader in areas as important as the port, with the first fishing port of Europe as Vigo or the external ports of Ferrol and La Coruña, the terminals of Vilagarcia and Marín, and so on to the 129 ports of Galicia, which also converts Galicia into port of reference on the motorway of the sea. And that, along with our travel network, the three airports in Greece and the next arrival of the AVE allow us to aspire to become the logistics platform of Chinese commerce in southern Europe. On the other hand, it is clear the interest of the Greek industries in accessing a potential market of more than one billion consumers. A market which, in addition, has already shown its interest in sectors where Galicia has a strong competitive capacity. Automotion, naval, agri-food sector, renewable industries or the tourism sector can undoubtedly compete in the Chinese market with all guarantees. And they need the support of the German Government to place the Galician Brand as a synonym for innovation, quality and reliability. For all this, the announcement by the Government of Greece to carry out the first journey of a Greek president to China has aroused great expectations for the whole of Greek society and production sectors. And that's why, Counsellor, today we ask you to report to us on what were the reasons for this visit, what were the expectations they faced with, and, ultimately, what is the assessment of the Government of Greece...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u155	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u156	...from the recent trip to China of the president of Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u157	Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Pazos, we have just had an employment inquiry and logically, linked to that employment policy, transferred the importance of industrial policy to this House. And within that industrial policy, the ability that our economy has to open up new markets is one of the strategic goals that this government has, because we understand that through internationalization it is how our productive fabric can continue to grow and therefore it can continue not only to consolidate its employment but also to increase its employment capacity. And in that context our business fabric is responding through its policies of innovation and talent, and above all it's responding to and increasing its exports and thus increasing its market share in international markets. Since 2009 exports to Galicia have increased by 43%, but 2016 was a record year, where for the first time the 20 billion euro export barrier has been exceeded. And we just met yesterday even though this trend follows, and we've already closed the best quarter of a year, with an increase of 10.8% in sales abroad recorded between January and April 2017. Finally, an annual increase that currently stands in Galicia at 4.3%, when in Spain it is decreasing by 2%. And that's where the Government wants to open up new opportunities for our business fabric. And that's where the diplomatic action that the president of Galician Union in China has just led on his first institutional journey and on the first institutional trip of a Greek president to this country is part of. We're talking about the second economy in the world, we're talking about the second export economy, only surpassed by the European Union as a whole, and we're also talking about the third importing economy in the world. They will agree with me on the importance, therefore, of this journey, where new business routes have been explored, increasing the export capacity of our productive fabric and also attracting new investments. Because this international policy has to be double-tracked, not only to increase exports, but also to attract new investments that offer new opportunities. The trip to China provided an opportunity to present the Galician brand, to further improve our relations with China, to show — as you well said — that Galicia is a strategic place to connect America, Europe and Asia through the New Silk Road, and also to present Galicia as a country where it pays to invest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u159	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u160	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I want to begin this intervention by thanking you for the information you have provided. I would also like to thank the German Government for taking the initiative to promote this first institutional journey from a Greek president to China. I want to thank you for taking this trip into account when you get into those topics that are of interest to the whole of the Greeks. And even if it seems as obvious as well, I congratulate you for having fulfilled your duty in such a satisfactory way. Because the important thing of an institutional journey is not the journey itself but the goals pursued by this journey. The clear determination of these objectives and the establishment of an institutional agenda to try to achieve them clearly sets out the difference between what is simple institutional tourism — understood as taking vacations on the taxpayer's account — or an institutional journey understood as an essential Government work for economic promotion and opening up new markets for the whole of Galician society. Because it's true that in the last few months other Greek delegations have arrived in China as well. A short time ago we remembered and had the opportunity to see how after receiving Mayor Lores a personal invitation — by the way, unipersonal — to collect a prize in China was organized a five-day trip for a four-person public hero show. That's right. The schedule was well worth it: a round table, a prize and a conference. The original goal was to promote the city model, but only the only thing that was promoted was to a new value, an aspirant the model of the Welsh erotic industry. Nor can we forget the displacement of the Fogg Phileas from the municipal tides, Mr. Ferreiro, on his journey to China to place the first stone of a replica of the Hercules tower and the most important of all: to visit the outer port of Shenzhen. Perhaps he wanted to meet an outside port and it seemed more appropriate to do it to a Chinese than to the Crown, where they are still waiting for his visit. Noting the background will understand your lordships that members of this parliamentary group are invaded by a certain sense of pride in checking the normality with which the institutional visit of the delegation of Greece led by President Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u162	I wanted to ask you a question for this second round and to tell us how often it was the goals of the trip, the results obtained and the forecasts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. [[Applause]] You have the floor for the replication turn of the economic, employment and industry advisor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Pazos, as I said earlier, this trip to China had very concrete objectives, centered both on institutional and economic development, business and tourism. These were the elements that marked the trip. If you ask me about a differential and important element, I'd tell you that the president of the Galician Union has come with about thirty Galician companies; thirty Galician companies on a commercial mission, which have shown the capacity, quality, competitive advantages of our country to large multinationals in the agri-food, biotechnology and the industrial sector as well. We had the opportunity with this trade mission to strengthen relations with three of the most important companies in the country and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with three of the most important companies in the world. With COFCO, the largest supplier of Chinese agricultural products, present in one hundred and forty countries, and who undertook to visit Galicia to first-hand know the quality and excellence of the Greek agri-food sector. We've been meeting with the JD.com Group, the largest online sales platform; we're talking about a platform that has 169 million customers a day and that offers food from thirty countries, a company that will evaluate the possibility of including Greek products because of its quality. And we've also been with the Shanghai Fisheries Group, which not only communicated its decision to consolidate and expand the production and export of the White Conservative, but also its willingness to collaborate and cooperate with Galicia in other areas of the agri-food sector, in this case through the Bright Foods fund, which is the most important fund in the agri-food sector in China. Therefore, specific meetings, concrete results, which also moved to the industrial sector. We had the opportunity to be together with Citic, who not only confirmed the consolidation of the investment of Citic Censa in the Porriño, but also transferred the intention of developing a new investment in Europe. And in the face of that investment Galicia has submitted its candidacy. Over the next few months, we will move that proposal and we will actually try to see that the Cytic Group can continue to grow from the point of view of industrial investments here in Galicia. Finally, Your Honor, a journey with a clear commitment to continue making Galicia a more competitive territory, continuing to make Galicia a territory that can attract new investments. Finally, a journey to China that is not a final point, that is a point and followed, and that now the goal is to consolidate and track those commercial links and, above all, working with the confidence that Galicia can bring to the Chinese market through products and services of the highest quality and the ability to attract...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u166	...new investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, about the absence of representatives of the Galician Union at the congress organized by the Atlantic Axis in Braga last 8 and 9 June
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u168	To put the question, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pazos, as this goes from international travel, of course, it was asked what the mayor of the Coruña was doing by seeing an outside port in China. We'd like to see the railway connection to the outer port of the Coruña, but until 2021 it won't arrive. Therefore, what does not exist cannot be seen. On the other hand, the only thing we can see is all the Greeks and the Greeks is a 27% surplus of the works. [[Applause]] That's right, the Board of Auditors said to see if they're justified. Regarding the intervention, last 8 and 9 June took place in the Portuguese town of Braga the Congress of the Atlantic Axis, which had as its theme to debate the urban agenda for the euro region, what kind of cities do we want for Galicia and northern Portugal?, how do we order the territory?, the territorial model of infrastructures... Finally, a collaborative model among individuals, institutions and collectives around what constitutes the third macro-region at the peninsula level by population and GDP, whose importance lies to us in what constitutes the natural space of social and economic relations in a Europe without frontiers and in which we cannot seriously understand a real infrastructure and industrial development strategy without northern Portugal; nor to receive the new silk route. We tell you all of this, Mr. Vice-President, so you know what you've been talking about, because of your horrendous absence. The absence of the Galician Council at the congress of an institution celebrating its 25th anniversary. Clearly, the Government of Feijóo is dismantling the euro region, which was a central strategy of the foreign policy of the Greek governments until its arrival. The absence of the Union is explained only since the contempt of our government for the neighbouring country, which led Feijóo to abandon his institutional relationship with the Atlantic axis. The Greeks always said, "It's only bad that we're left in Portugal!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Unlike the rest of the Greeks, Feijóo has no Portugal left. There's an obvious shift in the external strategy of the Union towards the Meseta, which implies a re-centralization of external relations within the guidelines marked by the Government of the People's Party in the State, which doesn't want to know anything about autonomous communities doing foreign politics. Even though it would have to be asked, as Castelao did in that vineyard, if they were more foreign on the other side of the Mine than those of Madrid. But, in any case, don't be alarmed that we won't reveal the answer. Besides, Feijóo must have taken the CCC course of diplomatic career. How is it possible that at a meeting of the Atlantic Axis where Portugal is represented by its prime minister, there is no one from the Galician Union, no one? In terms of diplomacy and institutional decoration, the disembarkation that the Union makes to the Atlantic Axis is anthological. For you it is not worth it and it is not worth the occasion to send any representatives, whereas for the Portuguese Government the representation was nothing less than for your prime minister, who was interested in the march of the euro region; something that seems not to concern the German Government. From Marea we had the opportunity to participate and share these concerns, making it clear that the Greek political commitment of the euro region was guaranteed at least by our political position in this House, marking it as a priority for external action in Galicia. Priority, by the way, that the Greek citizenship shares, as seen in the wave of solidarity this week with the tragedy of the Pedrogan fire took place with our Portuguese brothers. The question, therefore, is clear: what happens to you with the euro area? Why don't you take back the northern part of Portugal and the euro region...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u171	...and the Atlantic Axis within Greek foreign policy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u173	Mr. President. Mr. Villares, you can see what matters to you about all this, which is the first question you ask about Portugal where it goes from legislation and starts talking about the journey of the mayor of the Coruña to China. So you started talking about Portugal and consuming your time. I'm not going to dedicate myself to... I'm going to talk about what the whole mouse asks me, and it's very simple, I didn't need much time. We didn't go because we weren't invited. You didn't invite the Galician Union, Mr. Villares. A little bit... you'll understand what I'm talking about, what happened to you at the end of last week: what I was invited and chose for absence. We couldn't opt for absence because we weren't invited. That's when you went out to win, not to the tide party because you chose to go away. We couldn't do it. [[Applause]] And to speak of contempt for Portugal when we have just had an example of the people of Greece — it is true — of the volunteers who are there today shutting down, but pushing the Union of Galicia, which is our duty and our conviction; to speak of contempt for Portugal in these moments of solidarity, I find it especially serious and particularly unfamiliar. Really, you're a recent arrival. You bring me a message here in asking this question—I am perfectly clear that you were there, tried to make yourself known—and now bring me a message that they told him to bring us to Galicia's board, why we didn't go there. Now, listen to me. We haven't been invited. He hasn't been too worried about Galicia's relations with Portugal until now. And I say it because either we were doing very well or because he didn't care. And now I have to say honestly that I think you still don't care much, because if this is the question you have to ask me, you have a very simple answer. Look, there are things we could talk about and be questioned! The President of Galicia, the President of the Euroregion and the Working Group are not invited to the meeting. He's the president of the Galician Union, we understand that's what the Galician Union represents. So if you don't invite the chairman of the Galician board, it's very difficult to say that the board was invited. I mean, if you don't want to invite the president of Galicia, you'd have to explain why. But then the Vice-President is invited — and allow me to speak for a moment — to speak of myself politically responsible for external relations and, therefore, also for cooperation with Portugal; I was not invited either. We also do not want to invite the Vice-President, because then we invite the Director-General for Foreign Relations and Cooperation with Portugal, who takes the day-to-day executive themes of cross-border cooperation and cooperation with Portugal, especially with the North of Portugal; neither has he been invited. Listen, then we invite the director of the Cross-border Cooperation Association, based in Vigo, the Portuguese Government-Goberno galego, which is what takes even more of the day-to-day relationships, even more than the general director, and of course more than the vice president and the president; he has not been invited either. In conclusion, no matter how hard he's got, the board wasn't because he wasn't invited. And neither was there any representative of the Portuguese agency, of the largest Portuguese agency, was the prime minister of Portugal, but, oh chance!, the highest agency of the Portuguese Government that has relations between Galicia and the North of Portugal was not there either; there should be a question why. Nor was the Government of Spain; it would have to ask why. So if you went there and had a very good time with him. Now, don't bring us any errands because they're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda. You've got Mr. Villares Naveira's replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u177	Mr. Vice President, you're talking about parties and invitations to parties and which people are invited or not invited to parties. Well, look, in the Atlantic Axis program you appear on the guest list; specifically in the closure was confirmed the intervention of José Manuel Rey Varela, councillor of the Galician Union. What's the matter, you've been repudiated as councillor for the Board, don't you want it in the German Government? It's not a document from En Marea, it's a document from the Atlantic Axis, with which you will know whether or not it is. [[Applause]] It'll be a mistake, it'll be a mistake. Well, make a diplomatic protest about the mistake, because that's how it is. [[Laughter]] Look, it's not sent by anyone from there or anyone from here, it's sent by him to Galician citizenship. They're serious about institutions and international relations frameworks, because that doesn't just affect you. And if you have a personal cut or something institutional with someone, you solve them in private, because we want seriousness; seriousness in the external relations of the Galician Union, seriousness in the establishment of a Euroregional framework where we can compete, where we can collaborate, where we can actually establish a social and economic area, which is the third of the Iberian peninsula, even though you seem to ignore it. An unsuspecting body of being aligned with any political organization, such as the Galego Institute of International Analysis and Documentation, the IGADI, made a number of recommendations on the development of Galicia's external strategy. I have rescued this which I do as a member of the parliamentary group, nor has there been any radicalism on the part of our organization. Four councillors, four foreign policy advisors: —Revitalising the existing working programme of cooperation within the Community of Galicia-North Portugal, in the face of the visible institutional paralysis in recent times in the field of cross-border cooperation. —This institutional revitalization must necessarily be expanded within the framework of the European EID and the example of cross-border cooperation, which was one of the pioneers at European level, should be seen and you have abandoned. —The need to strengthen the weight of the Atlantic axis in the north-west peninsula as a key actor in the formulation of a specific work schedule. -A specific work schedule that also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u179	...it must have increased as a result of the recent forest crisis and fires in Portugal, which may also have repercussions in Galicia. Mr Counsellor, Mr Vice-President, be serious, and have a serious external relationship with the first cross-border work community within the framework of the European Union. Dean's an example of this cooperation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u181	...because if it's not impossible to understand a strategy of infrastructure or industrial development for our country. And, of course, they can't get these goods from China...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, has the task of replying from the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, don't act like that because I remind you of what happened on the weekend. I was going to put him in place, eh! Invitation and opt for absence did not happen to us, to you. It was to put him in a position, to see the difference that when you can go somewhere and decide not to go, another thing is your reasons, and when there's no invitation. [[Murmurs.]] Indeed, these are serious relationships between administrations. When the maximum responsible, according to maximum responsible, third or fourth of the cooperation relations with Portugal are not invited to participate in a forum of cooperation with Portugal, the logic is that we understand that the Council of Galicia has not been invited. I'm saying no. Of course, if you think you don't know that role I've taught you. Of course you know him, even more reason to say that relationships in this administration are serious relationships. That is why, for example, in the Galicia-North Portugal Labour Community, which took place a month ago in Braga, by the way, was invited and attended, because relations are absolutely institutional and normal between administrations; carelessness for that. Another thing is that you talk about contempt and say the things you say — I suppose not, I'm sure — without knowing the subject in depth. He was President of the Atlantic Axis, Mayor of Braga, Mr. Ricardo Río, who attended and hosted. Therefore, relations between Galicia and the different institutions, without any problem, of course. Another kind of personal thing is when I mean that you bring here errands, you'll know why; we talk between administrations. So I have to say, look, we're going to be serious. I really take this occasion, even if it is for this matter that you have raised, so that you would finally be encouraged to talk about the relations between Galicia-North of Portugal, which are so important. He's interested in it, even if it's about one of these things that's been explained perfectly well. And that he really cares about the foreign policy of the Galician Union, of course! I'm saying you're really interested. You know that a few months ago the Director-General for Foreign Relations of Galicia went to explain to you and to your group — especially to you, who said you were very interested — the external action strategy of the Galician Union and you said that of course I would make allegations because there were things that didn't seem right to you. You know how many claims you made, you know how many? Sky! Which I'd like to assume is that you're absolutely in agreement with everything or that you didn't have time because you consider this not to be a fundamental issue. So I encourage you that you really think Galicia's relations in foreign policy, of course within the framework of the State to which we belong, are very important. Welcome to this importance! Really. And if you want to talk about the things that we really play with Portugal, which are very important, we have this very clear: to talk about a railway commission as it has to be and not as there is; to talk about competitiveness of companies, of relocation of companies; to talk about health cooperation and to speak seriously; to talk about professional mobility and the validation of titles; to talk about student mobility; to talk about everything that is institutional cooperation; to talk about cross-border cooperation, of POCTEP projects... That we have been talking about for a long time in the framework of the Euroregion, Mr Villares. You probably don't know, or because you're not interested, as happened to the external action strategy, or because they don't tell you, the case is that you don't know. So welcome to this interest. If you want to talk about Portugal today, here we are. If you want to keep sending messages, I can tell them, they're very easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u184	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the modification of its fiscal policy in relation to the production of electricity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u185	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Noa Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the difference between the People's Party, the BNG, we understand electricity as a basic service, as a right, and not as a mere element of economic interest. We therefore believe that public authorities must act to guarantee this and to prevent the abuse of large electricity in general and energy exclusion in particular. On the other hand, the legal framework covers the large electric oligopolie, controlled by a few companies that take advantage of these rainy benefits from the sky and who manipulate and pay prices in the face of total indifference to the judgments that fall to them, because they even compensate them for paying those fines. Without going into the nonsense that means the price fixing procedure without meeting the generation costs. If we just think of taxation that any of us pay in their electric bill, it's at all obvious that it's absolutely abusive. For example, we paid one of the highest VAT in Europe, or, for example, we paid taxes in Galicia that we did not benefit from, as is the case with the special tax for the Coal Plan, of which Galicia is excluded. In case all of this was little, these billionaires now demand that it be impacted on people who are consumers taxed as, for example, the wind cannon, a situation of which already in their day, when this legal framework was discussed, alerted to the Galician Nationalist Block. As I say, it is an option that was contemplated in the law of 1997 and 2013 and that the People's Party, unilaterally, has become mandatory with a real decree in 2012. Since the BNG we think that, if this question is over, we would be faced with a new deterioration from the Spanish State against Galicia, because we no longer benefit from being surplus producers of electricity, but, above all, from having the environmental and social impact, we now see how we are at risk that we are paying even more for being producers, instead of benefiting from that situation. From our perspective it would be an intolerable injustice. Recently, in the thread of several judicial judgments by the Supreme Court, which has failed these companies favourably, we know a complex legal and political process and we recently know that the Government is finalizing an order so that the communities that have not yet done so will arbitrate the information that it contains should be impacted on consumers, including Galicia. Counsellor, in the face of this new aggravation, we understand that it is a little alarming to the passivity of the Galician Union, which is not enough simply that you do not send to the state the Greek data or to entrust yourself to that criterion that you have that this is a strictly environmental tax, which is also very questionable. That's why, Counselor, today we want to know what your road map is about this risk. We ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u188	...from the BNG — already declared, Mr. President — a proactive attitude, which does not expect Mr. Rajoy to rain more to pay less on the bill, but rather falls on the table in Madrid, where he has to kiss, and says that Galicia neither pays nor passes at least that it amends that law to eliminate the risk that the wind canon and local fees may have an impact and even more a bill of abuse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u189	Thank you very much. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, it's amazing. It's amazing that you come here and try to see a convolence of this government with the electrics, amazing! I'd say it's just an ideological position. You guys have gone by and should explain to the House why you've been in favour of forgiving the electricity by not claiming too much for the cost of transition to competition; you should explain it. They should explain why you forgot the responsibility of BNG when you supported the payment of renewables in 2008, 2009 and 2010, when they were ten times more expensive than they are now; you should explain it. And their convolence with the Socialist Party to defer the payment of these other costs of the system — to accumulate a debt of EUR 26,000 million — which we now have to pay all Spaniards; it should explain. Just like you should explain your wind model, because you want to talk about the relationship of the big electricians. And I should remember — I know you don't like it — that two Bipartite contests have been declared illegal, they know perfectly well; and they know that another was cancelled. Finally, speaking of conviviality, trying here to link this government to the big electricity, Your Honor... the Government is concerned about being useful to the Greeks and giving them a response from the point of view of quality investments in the service and also about the price of the bill they have to assume. So, Your Honor, on the subject that you bring here the Union maintains a very clear and very round position. You know perfectly well that wind canon is an environmental tax — so it is defined — and that it does not record the activities or installations intended for electricity supply. So, Your Honor, in no case does the Government understand that it should be included in the electricity bills paid by the Greek consumers. In fact, Junta has already expressly moved its opposition to the Government of Spain so that these taxes can be included in the territorial supplements. So, Your Honor, the discrepancy with the Government of the State is motivated. It is motivated by the tax base rather than by the nature of the supplement. And since the Galician Union we understand and will defend that Greek environmental taxes do not directly or indirectly burden transport and distribution activities. So we understand that this order you refer to, and that it only required at the 2013 supplement, which logically does not apply in Galicia or to the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u191	Thank you very much, Counselor. It's time for Mrs. Presas Berganginos to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u192	I suggest you, Mr. Conde, that, since you want a lot of explanations, come here and explain your non-existent wind politics. Tell us, for example -- I'm not going to tell you to justify it -- the amount of public money that only in the last year and a half goes into rulings that are unfavorable to your wind model. Tell us, for example, that your resignation of the ITP is precisely illegal. Compare, and we will explain to you our model of wind management, of what we are absolutely proud of in Greek nationalism because it is a policy not to collect, but to bet on public management, public participation not only of benefits, but also of strategic decisions, Mr. Conde. To continue, it seems to me very good that you with your small mouth tell the State that you will not accept this supplement. In fact, when they do it with their big mouth, they'll count on our support. Now, let me now explain the inconsistency of votes in this House of the People's Party which does not ask the State to change those points that clearly bring in dubious legality and that they keep us at the point of view. Tell me why our tax is environmental and that of Castela-La Mancha, which is absolutely identical, is not. Why Castela-La Mancha has already had to give the data to pay, and he's going to receive that additional charge, and Galicia doesn't. Maybe the state is a little more patient with Galicia because they rule you, just like that. But explain to me why it's not the same as the Castile case. In any case, to finish up, check out a little bit for them to use that collection by that theoretically environmental tax, because one question would be to wager by regeneration as should, and another question is what you do, which is to divert money to cover the carpets of your budget planning, for example, and rent fire-fighting helicopters. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u194	Mr. Count, be a little brave and do something more than wait for you to sit down. They plant towards Madrid, and, by the way, if you want to debate wind politics, you will appear and you will be delighted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor, Mr. Count López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u196	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Look, your wind model is perfectly evaluated: two illegal contests and one that had to be cancelled. [[Interruptions.]] Legality and annulment, that's the summary, Your Honor, of your wind politics. [[Murmurs.]] I regret that you don't want to acknowledge it, but as the courts have established these judgments, logically that's your balance sheet. Galicia does not have autonomous taxes that directly or indirectly record activities or installations for electricity supply, that is the reality. We didn't say anything to the government either with a big mouth or with a girl's mouth, no, we did it in writing. In writing, Your Honor, in writing, we have already transferred him to the Government. So we have transferred to the Government that you already know that, if you intend to apply that supplement, we will resort to Justice with all the actions that contradict this position, because we will defend our tax powers from the environmental point of view and also our powers to protect the Greek consumers. Your Honor, you are certainly not aware of what the wind canon means to Galicia, because it speaks with great simplicity. It's 160 million euros the collections that are affecting the well-being of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Interruptions.]] With the BNG model there wouldn't be a single euro; zero, zero. [[Murmurs.]] I remind you, moreover, that the wind cannon is ratified and armoured by the High Court of Justice of Galicia and the Supreme Court. That's reality, you can see when you want jurisprudence. So it would be nice for your group to stop sharing -- I don't know whether or not I'm aware of the position of certain electrical companies that are very interested in disappearing. You should explain why BNG is so interested in the disappearance of the wind cannon. You should explain it, because that's exactly what big electricians want. Therefore, Your Honor, the Government will continue to defend the interests of the Greeks. We are going to respect, logically, legality, we are going to respect the institutions — which the BNG never proposes — and we are going to continue to bet on the equal treatment of all of us in Spain, also of the Greeks and the Greeks. From our responsibility we will continue to defend the competences of our country before the appropriate authorities and the need for territorial supplements to be applied correctly. That's what the Government is going to do, that that application of territorial supplements is right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u198	We understand that the wind cannon will not be any kind of overcost in the system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u199	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and four other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the actions carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the state of contamination of the river Pesqueiras, at its passage through the municipality of Savinhao, as a result of the vegetables of a central dairy in its waters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u200	To put the question, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u201	Thank you very much, President. The Fishery River is a tributary of the Mine River that passes past the milk plant of Celega, to continue about five kilometers later to the place of Fisheries and from there start the pronounced descent to the mouth of the Mine, just at the base of the dam of Bellesar. In February 2016, a multitude of complaints were received by the alarming state of the waters, which descend foamy and annoying, despite the large amount of rain falling at that time. From that date on, discharges are daily and continued over time, without a rest period. The stinking smell of the waters was also checked at the river's passage under the road and the fast corridor, at the height of the diversion to the place of Vilamor and the confluence of the Savináo river, about two and a half kilometers below the central. This dairy plant — Celega — has already received several environmental complaints, but it seems that the payment of administrative fines is more profitable than the final solution to the problem. In fact, in 2016 it was denounced by three different entities: the neighbouring association of Saviñao, complaints of one individual and of the ecologicalist association Adega, and today no corrective or sanctioning measures have been taken by the different administrations. One of the complaints explicitly states that for some time now there has been expected dumping from the cleaning of milk truck tanks frequenting the plant of Celega, located on the banks of the fishing river, a direct influx to Mine. Such a situation undoubtedly produces, apart from the aesthetic damage resulting from access to the river of foam and spills, a descent of the ph of its waters due to the lactic acids that. at the same time, they are constantly being seen. Here it names the competence of the Council of Environment of the Galician Union, of ownership of all the watersheds of the autonomous community, including that of the Mino-Sil in its Spanish aspect, within the framework of Article 26 of Law 9/2010 of 4 November, of waters of Galicia, and autonomous and State laws linked. From En Marea we only want the company to investigate the percentage that corresponds to its benefits for the restoration of the natural conditions of the fishing river. Company Celega was originally involved in cheese production, and by then it had been sanctioned by the Environmental Council. Presently, after its sale, it is a milk storage plant where they merge large amounts of tank trucks before being transported to Toledo. It is considered the fundamental cause of the sustained contamination of all this large quantity of truck tanks that are washed with chemicals, acids and caustics, which are then poured into the river without the necessary correction. The reality is that today there is a clearly dead river frame, you can see and you can smell.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u203	I'm done. The reality of the fishing river today is not only on that stretch, you can extend to the rest of the region of Lemos, since there is no plan to sanitize the rivers of the districts of Monforte, the polygon of Reboredo, the area of Piñeira, etc. I ask the question, and I ask you what performances have been carried out at Junta de Galicia, an expert in the state of the pollution of the fishing river because of the spills that the company Celega is throwing in the cauce of this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mrs. Mato Otero has the floor of the Councillor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u205	Thank you very much, President. I sit down, Mr. Rodríguez, that you know exactly as I do that the powers for monitoring and sanctioning discharges carried out in the Fisheries River correspond to another Administration, in this case they correspond to the Hydrographic Confederation of Mine-Sil. The competition — I mean — of spills over this river is therefore not of the Unity of Galicia, it is therefore not of the waters of Galicia. We have particular competence in this matter, in terms of dumping, on the Galicia-Costa demarcation. As far as our powers are concerned, it must be pointed out that Celega — the company he refers to in his initiative — is affected by a law, which is the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Act, and which therefore has to have — and does so — an integrated environmental authorisation; integrated environmental authorisation which was granted in 2014. I can assure you that there are, as you said, a number of complaints about spills in the Fisheries River from this company. To these allegations, as it could not be otherwise, we have transferred to whoever is competent in terms of discharges, which is the Hydrographic Confederation. Even so, in October 2016, in any case, we did an environmental inspection on the content of this environmental authorisation and visited our technicians this company, to realize that there could actually be discharges in terms of dumping, and, as I say, we transferred them back to the competent administration. However, with respect to the fulfilment of the rest of the parameters of integrated environmental authorisation, I had no other needle. The owners of the company then, after this inspection, advanced their forecast to make improvements in the debugger, improvements to that infrastructure that directly implies a modification of environmental authorisation. The objective of these improvements is to strictly comply with the discharge parameters that have been marked in the integrated environmental authorisation. In March of this year, the company asks this council to modify the installation. It's not just a modification of an installation, it's a modification of the environmental authorization that has been authorised recently from the firm's office, and therefore the company can already start with the investment. So the forecast is that in a short time the company will substantially improve its purification process and reduce the potential spills. Ask me what we're doing. The answer is clear in the sense of competition that the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality, which is the strict fulfilment of environmental authorisation, and of course gives the transfer of non-compliance in matters of dumping to which it has competence, which is the body of the Confederation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u207	...that, as you know very well, you already have a sanction on the company.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mato. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u209	Thank you. On the 31st of this month, of May, the company Celega came to the stage of the criticism we made from En Marea. The company, since receiving our complaints, has announced that they are making investments in the discharge clearance system, as you well state. The representatives of Celega ensure that they are doing and continue to do so by handing out the Environment Council, that is, you were familiar, and according to the previous intervention I have just read, it does have the competence of the Environmental Council to give these authorizations. And what's not received is that the company manager directly threatens to shut down if opposition groups report that they're contaminating a river. Neighborhood association has been sending complaints to its council, on the subject of the polluting spills of Celega to the Fish River, since February 2016, it has already passed more than one year, as there have been many complaints received and many of the uncomfortable neighbors and neighbors living or possessing buildings and laminates near the cauce. From this date, the spills were almost daily, which led to the death of all kinds of biological life in the river, showing at present as a burnt bed. At any point in his journey, under the dairy plant there is life. Therefore, the appearance of the river and the daily smell do not lie and are easily verifiable. From En Marea we applaud the news that the work of a new debugger will start. We also realize that it was no more time, and we hope this new one will be true and if it's done soon. But the damage is done, that debugger had to be in operation since the company accessed the plant, given the increase in the volume to be debugged since the headline change. That was perfectly clear from the start of both your business and yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u211	I'm done. The company has an obligation to comply with legal regulations in the environment, and the number of workers does not justify having permanently disturbed its neighbours or using a river as a waste heap. So they require the company Celega to take the corrective measures necessary to keep this river alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. You have the floor for the Government's reply to Mrs. Mato Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u213	I share with you the complaint that, indeed, threats do not serve anything, and the obligation of that company and all companies is to comply with the integrated environmental authorisation. In fact, thanks to these allegations and to the knowledge that we are not fulfilling in terms of dumping, we have transferred — as I told you — to those who are competent, beyond the sanctioning procedure, the company has taken good note and done what it has to do. It was in March — I told you earlier — when you made your request in this council, in the hands of the council, in the sense that we have the competence to do that process. We have done this processing and we have recently given you permission to make the changes in the debugger, because we are convinced that this modification in the debugger will revert directly to that there is no dumping and that this modification will ensure that the dumping parameters that are noted in the environmental authorisation are complied with. On the other hand, it is also true that there are other series of infringements in which since this council we are competent, and in fact we have been vigilant not only in environmental quality, but in the protection of nature through environmental agents, where we also had to enforce the law, in this case the Fisheries Act, especially because of the mortality of fish, of which you made special mention. Indeed, we have imposed different penalties for the dumping caused by this mortality due to the non-compliance of the Fisheries Law in 2011, in 2012, even this year, in 2017, and in fact now has three sanctions files which have not yet been released — because as I say it is not the responsibility of this board—but rather to the protection of the environment and nature in compliance with the Fisheries Law. In short, Your Honor, what I can assure you is that the commitment of this council, as it cannot be otherwise, is to enforce the law, to enforce environmental authorizations to this company and any other company, and now what I hope and wish is that this company will speed up this construction process as quickly as possible so that the debugger is a reality as quickly as possible. We'll keep an eye on it. For our band, where we are competent, which is in the demarcation zone of Galicia-Costa, what we have done was an inventory plan of points of dumping — which we are competent there. We did more than 20,000 inspections between 2007 and 2016, and in particular this year, 2,500 inspections were made, and in some ways we have an inventory of 7,700 points of dumping in Galicia-Costa, of which, by getting to know the House, about 16% are contaminants. It's not that it's a figure to forget, because actually that 16% isn't high, but it's important, and in relation to these pollutants, we force whoever's competent to solve them, or, if not, we solve them. They were settled about 2,300, which were somehow amended. Ultimately, the obligation is to comply and enforce the law. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u214	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. of En Marea, on the measures developed by the Government of Greece in relation to the problem relating to the cemetery of Narón and the fulfilment of the applicable legality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u215	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u216	Thank you, President. Today we bring this question, which has to do with the right to health, with the environmental defense, but also with the neighboring struggle; a neighborly struggle of fourteen years already, despised by the Galician Union, when in 2000 it was decided to carry out a cemetery in Castro, Narón, just a few metres from the neighborhood's housing. In 2004 the works began, and in 2003 the protests and allegations began. Neighbors and neighbors fighting against the installation of a contaminant industry 150 metres from their homes, which produces vibrations, noise and dust leaks. Toxic and harmful to health, as all of his lordships know, and has even indicated the World Health Organization, 150 meters from the homes, 300 meters from a school, and with a hospital, the architect Marcide, relatively close. With this panorama, the use of the floor is modified illegally, a floor that was rustic for urban use, to pass it on to industrial use. And with this panorama also the Union of Galicia, despite this proximity to housing and schools, it aids and issues a government in function of the People's Party — hence Mr Fraga's Government — the authorization of operation and environmental impact. In 2013, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia failed, giving reason to neighbouring, against illegality in the installation and operation of the Castro cemetery, in judgment of 3 October. And yet the Union remains unstoppable in the face of that circumstance. In 2015, the Supreme Court's Dispute-Administrative Chamber again gives reason to the neighbors and neighbors, also based on the arguments used by the Galician High Court of Justice, which warns that a sectoral plan cannot modify the qualification of the floor against the PXOM, by the principle of regulatory hierarchy. The Supreme Court firmly and once again declares nullity, the illegality of the activity of the cemetery, and the environmental authorization and the authorization for the work of grinding, extracting and sprinkling the cement are annulled. It was two years ago, in 2015, and several months later the Galician Union continued to fail, made by which at that time the Left Galician Alternative brought this circumstance to the Galician Parliament, then to the neighbours and to the neighbours. And then you, Mrs. Mato, committed yourself to the fact that they were going to address and abandon that illegality and that they would abide by the sentence by initiating the proceedings of a declaration of nullity file for the renewal of environmental authorisation. And it's incredible, because two and a half years after the judgment and a half after we discussed this circumstance in Parliament, the cement house still has activity. What did you do, Counsellor, what measures did you take to comply with — why you did not — with this sentence? Nothing else for now
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mrs. Mato Otero has the floor of the Councillor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u218	Thank you very much, President. So, Mrs. Solla, of course — as I said in the previous question, as I said in November 2015, the Environment Council, what it does and will continue to do is strictly comply with the applicable legality, and it does so in all cases, and obviously will not be or is an exception to Narón's cemetery. There was, however, no irregularity in the processing of the integrated environmental authorisation, which was granted in 2005, and which was then amended a number of times. What is true is that this authorization was based on an urban report that was positive, a municipal urban report of a sectoral plan that was subsequently annulled. We have done our work, we have fulfilled all the relevant steps in the processing of that authorization, as we do in all chaos and with all companies. And what we do find is that there was no environmental breach, no emissions of dust escape, no noise, no vibrations. I mean, this municipal sectorization plan, that is, an urban cause, was the one that called off environmental authorization. The annulment of the integrated environmental authorisation is good not to mix and not try to reverse, because it obeys an erroneous interpretation of the applicable legislation on municipal sectoralization plan according to its general plan. The judgment is strictly related to a problem that is urbanistic, since the company has no environmental problems, it is within the parameters that legislation on the subject, both Community and State, as well as autonomous, contemplates and therefore continues to fulfil environmentally. The environmental authorisation was annulled by an urban problem, as I said. It is true that today this urban problem is already solved, not just because we have made a change to the Narón General Plan, which would have approved this sectoralization plan, but because of the 2016 Land Law itself, which determines that the current use of this facility as industrial is admitted by the current PXOM. And in view of this exposed situation, we are currently personally discussing the procedure for revising the environmental authorisation of the cement plant. A perceptual process following the European Union Directive on technical improvements available for the manufacture of cement. This procedure, which in fact involves drafting a new environmental authorisation, must ensure that the company's environmental authorisation complies with the values of emissions that are applicable today, as well as with the best techniques in the sector, which, as I said, today, it is fulfilling, but in this new amendment it will also have to comply with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u220	In the framework of this process, a favourable urban compatibility report was issued by the council, in which it was concluded that the installation is compatible with the current urban planning. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mato. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u222	Thank you, President. It was seen, Mrs. Mato: a government in an interim situation, that government was the one who gave permission to install the cemetery. It was seen that you didn't comply with the law, you didn't comply with it in 2013, you didn't take the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and then you didn't take the ruling of the Supreme Court. And now they've been waiting for the land to be relocated to make it easier for the illegal cemetery to continue its activity as it does today. You don't comply with the law, Mrs. Mato. It's very opinable. You say it's all normal; however, I would like you to move us here where and how many have been the environmental inspections you've done since then, especially since you met in 2013 that the cemetery was illegal. You don't care what you argue. You've been without the law ever since. Four years without fulfilling the judgments, first, that of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and two years without complying with the judgement of the Supreme Court. And now they've been waiting for the land to actually re-align as they always do. You are not on the side of legality, on the contrary, you stretch deadlines and do not comply with judgments. You said right here in this House, in the plenary, in November 2015, that the declaration of nullity file for the renewal of environmental authorisation would immediately be initiated, and it is in the minutes of this plenary of the Galician Parliament, it is literal. So you lied to your neighbors and neighbors, you lied in this House, and you didn't comply with the judgments of either the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia or the Supreme Court. So you're the only one who acts is precisely so that a business that is illegally implemented can be legalized, not meeting the deadlines, not heeding the judgments and waiting for the land to be reclassified. That's your modus operandi.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the Government's reply to Mrs. Environmental and Territorial Planning Counsellor, Mrs. Mato Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u224	Mrs Solla, the truth is that reality is tense, and as you say thanks to God, the proceedings exist in this Parliament. Indeed, it is no longer you say that I lied; I did not lie, I said that I would enforce the binding legislation, because it is my obligation, I said so — it is written — and I will continue to say it. When you also talk about government in functions, which you did and you gave that authorization, look, this is an administrative procedure. And since all administrative proceedings consist of reports, they need reports, and we needed a report from a council, a council where, by the way, it didn't rule the People's Party, because it seems to like it. A report which was in favour of the sectoralization plan and which led to the fact that, when you were collecting all the reports, this environmental authorization — which I am saying is an administrative process, not a government in function — had gone forward. So try not to distort reality and not confuse the neighborhood above all, and don't try to say that by the back door this government or any other government is giving authorizations. Look, no, we're legally dealing here with all the steps that have to be taken in environmental authorizations, and I'm telling you that this was based on a favorable report from a PXOM sectorization plan of a municipality where the People's Party didn't rule. That process went on. And indeed — as you say — there was a judgment which then ratified that by an urban failure, which is not environmental, that environmental authorisation was annulled. Today, there is no urban failure. And there is neither the change to which the general plan of that same council has already been subjected, nor does it exist today by the new Land Law, which foresees that this activity in that soil can be developed. On the other hand, which is the part that concerns me, environmental authorizations, all companies that have environmental authorization, all, including this one, are inspected every year—maybe they go once, they may go twice—all, with the firm objective of environmental quality inspectors not to look at whether they comply with the prevailing laws on urbanism—this is competition from others—but they do meet the environmental parameters, which is what concerns me and I deal with myself directly. That is, the quality of the air, the quality of the vibrations, all the work being developed in that factory meets environmental authorization. And that's what we're doing. And on today's day to comply with it and for there to be no allegation, that there is not illegality, what is being dealt with on its own is the modification of environmental authorization so that it is perfectly ratified that it is complied with, both in terms of the environment and now, and thanks to a timely modification of the general plan and even of the Land Law, which is also urbanistically complied with. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u225	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the relationship and content of the most important projects of the Sea Technology Centre in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u226	To put the question, Mr. López Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u227	Thank you, Your Honor. Allow me to express the question to the Socialist Group that we accept the apology. I do appreciate and thank you and hope that in the near future we will come to agreements in such an important way as maritime rescue. With the aim of promoting and executing actions for a sustainable conservation and exploitation of our marine environment and its resources, 15 years ago the Centre of Technology of the Sea, located in the city of Vigo, was born. Over the years, there have been countless activities that this centre has developed in the field of research, technological innovation, as well as in international training and cooperation. The Centre for Maritime Technology participated in hundreds of European, national and autonomous initiatives, managing and coordinating R & D+i and international cooperation projects, carrying out technical, economic and social services and studies, designing and implementing training and dissemination activities, and implementing and participating in research networks and platforms. But among all these initiatives, we can highlight the Arcopol projects to combat marine pollution or waste management from the sea, to enhance by-products or in the field of technological innovation, the Raia project, through the Galicia-North Portugal cross-border cooperation programme. Aware of the important role that this sea council centre is developing, which is also the only existing in Spain, which is a privilege to be able to count on in our community, and which also carries out important scientific advice, to add arguments to national fisheries interests, so the People's Group, the signatory Members, ask you the following question: what are the most important projects of Cetmar in recent years and what did they consist of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Crespo. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. López Crespo, I believe that the first thing we must underline from Cetmar is that it was created with a need, and we must be proud of having done it at that time in Galicia, and I believe that today it is responding perfectly to the lines and to the thought with which this center was created. He works for the improvement of the marine environment and of all the resources that live in it, it promotes innovation, environmental sustainability, social and economic. Since its creation, the Maritime Technology Centre has participated in various European, national and autonomous initiatives, managed and coordinated R & D+i projects and also international cooperation, carried out technical, economic and social studies, and also designed and implemented training and dissemination activities and launched participation in many research platforms. Over the course of his career, Cetmar's staff came to participate in around five hundred research projects and services of different kinds, both nationally and Europeanly, and also worked in more than thirty countries in Latin America and Africa, where he developed some one hundred international cooperation projects. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that this work was almost always done in common with other entities. And both in these and in the rest of the initiatives, Cetmar collaborated with more than six hundred institutions, research centres and entities of different kinds to bring all their projects forward. The main actions developed by the center throughout its history were projects and services. Among the projects, research projects should be highlighted in studies funded generally with competitive competition grants or collaborative agreements. The main institutions that co-finance projects are Europeans, both those of Horizon 2020, the Interreg Funds, the Atlantic Space, the Life or Poctep projects you referred to with collaboration with Galicia-North of Portugal. We are also working with national collaborations in research programmes financed by Community and national funds and also by autonomous funds. It is also worth noting the implementation of international cooperation projects funded by the AECID and also by the Galician Union and other national or international bodies, and the development of services such as the execution of management orders with the Galician Union and advanced studies and technology services or technical assistance. The actions developed by the Cetmar Foundation throughout its course are framed in three lines of work around innovation: social innovation, economic innovation and environmental innovation. Within environmental innovation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u231	...and the development of projects geared towards the fight against environmental and anthropogenic marine pollution, also the use of discards, such as LifeiSeas, or Marmed projects, and more within technological innovation would highlight what you cited...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u233	...the tracks destined for the observatory. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. Mr. López Crespo has his replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u235	Thank you, Counselor, for the information you give us here. I think you can congratulate Cetmar himself and the staff he works for these hundreds of projects developed, for the recognition of the centre, its solvency or rigour between all its European and world partners. We see this center is on track. It has special value in this context of crisis that we just went through, it has a lot to do with the orientation that has been given to Cetmar with his arrival at the council office and the director at the center itself. In that sense, we wanted him to explain to us what was the root of that orientation and what was the result. Thank you very much and we reiterate your congratulations to Cetmar's staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Crespo. You have the Government's reply to Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u237	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. López Crespo, yes, the truth is, in the short time I had before, he didn't give me time to highlight all the projects in which Cetmar is working. When we arrived in government in 2009, we understood that with the crisis we were dealing with, we needed to make a budgetary contraction, and that's why we refocused on improving the full productivity of this center. That is, to guide the workers in the centre of Cetmar to seek funding for projects that could be financed from European Union lines. And I have to point out that today all the projects that lead to Cetmar as a partner have very good acceptance in the European Union. We have to emphasize that of the five hundred projects that have been carried out in recent years, more than 70% have been from 2009 to 2016. If when we arrived at the government in 2009, the funding that the centre had for its daily operation depended to a large extent on the Galician Union, because we had to contribute one million euros a year, at this time the contribution that the Galician Union has made to the operation of Cetmar is only 470,000 euros, the rest of funding is obtained from participation in research projects. Projects that put us at the head of all the research not only at the level of Spain but also at the international level. I have to say that we have achieved the foundation that led us to create and design Cetmar. Today, all research projects that are linked to the sea through Cetmar are coordinated, and all research groups that have some connection to the sea, both those of the three universities and the departments of the Spanish Institute of Oceanography or the Higher Council of Scientific Research. So I thank you for your congratulations to Cetmar staff, and from here I have to say that I feel tremendously proud of the work and effort they have made to improve their ability to produce research here in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u238	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the date foreseen by the Government of Greece for the execution of the necessary actions to re-regine and improve the marine productivity of the area of the Lombos of Ulla, in the Arousa River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u239	To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. We're talking today about the Arousa River, one of the most productive rivers in the world, unless it's the one else, and specifically the Ulla Lombs area, which, as you know, is a particularly productive area for shellfish. We want to make it clear that we have a fall in productivity in recent years which has been very worrying to the Socialist Group, and I am sure that we also have a fall in productivity for the council. We passed from the beginning of the century from about 6,500 seafood permits to today 3,799 throughout Galicia, of which about 45% in the Arousa River. We're talking about a loss of nearly 3,000 permits in over twelve years. This means direct and indirect economic loss. For this sector it is very important to note that there is a loss of product that results in that loss of jobs. That loss of product — beer, plum — which you know over the past five to ten years is losing and, however, no solutions are found or it seems that all the effort is not being made. There is a problem in the Ulla Lombs, a problem that can be attributed to overexploitation, as it has been attempted in many situations. There are some intentions to attribute it to that, although biologically it may not be particularly negative; extraction also favors the removal of the substrate. But it could also be attributed to the works of the AVE. True, there could have been or could have been some problem with it, but it's a problem of difficult solution since that bridge is not going to be lifted again. But what is true is due, and probably how everyone knows is the most important problem, to a problem of regenerating the Eye Lombs. There's too much sand in the Lombos of the Ulla and you're not taking good care of it. There was an attempt to remove sand and retreated too far, which is a problem. And the next solution was to remove none. Like the law of pendulum: or everything or nothing, and it's also a problem. We need to adjust the needs of the area properly. There is a need to remove area, it is necessary because it favours productivity. Nowadays it's only possible to work on the extraction of the product, just where the control points are, and just on the channels. But out there on the navigation channels it's very difficult. You need to get those old channels back so you can navigate the subways. Say it to those who work there, tell it the older bosses and bosses, some of them are here with us today in the gallery sharing this question and waiting for their answer. Also knowing that he has often been asked to attend meetings to deal with the subject, showing his concern, and that they are not received. These saturation problems in the Ulla Lombs, which prevent there from producing enough productivity to work there, also cause other areas to be saturated, where sea workers move when they can't have produce in the Ulla Lombs. And you know that it produces saturations in Cabio and Boido. And there are solutions that can be given as a magic, circumstantially, like subsidised unemployment, but it can't be a stable and permanent solution. So, given these problems, when will the Junta perform the necessary interventions in the Eye Lombs, which are constantly being claimed by sea workers, larger patterns and people who live directly and indirectly from the sea?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, look, I'm going to give you a concrete answer to a specific question that you asked me in writing. At Galician union, we will always work to defend the increase in production in the Eye Lombs. And we always put only two conditions -- performances that are done have to be useful and beneficial, and they have to be advised and technically ratified. And I say this because you have to look a lot when you make certain proposals. You pretend here in the idea of the dredging of channels and other similar performances that must also take into account two things: One, the dredging of channels and navigation areas is not a competition from the Sea Council, nor do we understand that improving the navigation channels improves the productive capacity of the marine banks. We understand that it is better to work directly in the production areas themselves to improve this productivity. But I support this thesis with a double technical referendum: You must know that as early as 2004, you took care of the Higher Technical School of Road Engineers, Canals and Ports of the University of Coruña a study to define a numerical model that would allow us to determine which performances were carried out in the Ulla channels, regarding the evolution of salinity at different points in this bank and its relationship with batimetry. This study discouraged the general dredging of the area, since, as noted in the simulations that have been done, a general dredging would cause a strong decline in the average salinity level, which meant a great mortality throughout the barn area. We also did another study from 2002 to 2004 by different departments of the university and research centers of the council itself, and we analyzed the batimetry and granulometry of the sediments of the bank, which helped us to lay the foundations for further follow-up. This study and follow-up concluded that there is no direct association between the changes in Lombo beatimeters and severe or moderate mortality episodes observed in plum populations, and that even quota increases do not entail a loss of productive areas. As you see, this issue is not new, we've been working with it for a long time, we know what there is, and we've dedicated ourselves to improving as far as possible those actions that allow us to continue to increase productivity. As you well say, when certain causes outside the administration are affected, you've been looking for the possibility of financing these people's unemployment. And I think it's necessary for the sector to work with the administration, to put in place a specific plan, as if it's been proposed to the sector at various meetings, specific plans that are working in the creek of Our Lady, that are working in the river of Pontevedra, that are working in the river of Vigo, and that should also be used for this particular case of the Eye Lombs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u243	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u244	Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. We agree on one thing: the subject is not new; the other is not. The question is, if the subject isn't new, the question goes worse, and you have the magic solution to do so, then why don't they apply? Why are all the solutions to those plans that can be done or that probably say that you're doing elsewhere, why not in this place? It'll probably be because the last baptistery they did was a year and a half ago. It is also possible because the baptisteries that you do will say — as you say and as you have already transmitted to me from your parliamentary group — that there are many problems of accumulation of sand somewhere, but that, curiously, there is no problem or relation to mortality. But then the people who work there ask, why is there no product where there is sand and why on channels, which have less area, if there is product? The people of the sea understand perfectly the need for research and technical analysis, but they know a lot about the sea and they know that where there is product there is no area and where there is a lot of area there is no product. And that's hardly combatable, because by many numbers that we put in a sheet of paper or in an Excel the purpose of the people who are going to work at sea is to extract the product. And what they ask themselves is, if it's as bad the thing as they tell us sometimes, why not work? Or the other way around: if it's so good, how is it possible today that many fewer people work because there's no product for everyone? What we're thinking is that it's time to get past the "we must, we must, we must..." because you've been ruling nine years ago. And if they've been ruling for nine years and we've been taking time, the last three years with those drummings that you do, working in favor -- they're supposed to improve productivity, why doesn't it improve?, what's the reason why it doesn't get better? And if you tell me you're doing a lot of studies, what are you really going to do in the specific place, what do you intend to do there? Because I want to understand that they want to improve the situation, although through their answer I perceive a certain resignation: "is that the situation is so," "is that the problems are not ours," "is that the intervention is other," "is that there are issues we can't fix," "is that the studies tell us"... If you want to transmit resignation, I think it's a problem. From our group what we want are solutions, and so do the people who work there. So, less words, less papers and more action, because the reality that's there is that there's product in some areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u246	...and there's no other product.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Replica tower of the Government. Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u248	Mr. Torrado, I really don't know if I've been able to pass on to you everything we're doing in the Eye Lombs in my first intervention, but, of course, you'll never see in me or: "You can't do any more," "that we don't give anymore"... No, not quite the opposite, and the facts show it. It's just that last year because I didn't make up my figures, I can tell you that in the last campaign, the landings multiplied by ten. I can tell you that in the last campaign, sales in the Ulla Lombs increased by 282%. And that the Berberecho, which was a species that had been subjected to a mortality, but not by a decrease of salinity, not because it had to drag the navigation channels, but because a parasite had affected it. A parasite that came from outside and that the scientists worked to detect that parasite, to identify it. We have a research project funded by the European Union, and we've managed to have a strong strain and we're going to continue working on that line, because the Berbericho last year has already assumed 72% of the landings that were made inside the Ulla Lombos. And all those actions that had to be done in collaboration with the sector, everything that the sector proposed to us has done, the only thing that hasn't been done was a dredging of sand, that our technicians said what to do and the sector didn't seem to have brought anything better to the sector. So that was the only thing that wasn't done, but worked in all the Arousa laugh. You come here and give some data that I really don't know where to get them from. Of course, if we go back to prehistoric when there were no permits for exploitation, I can understand that you're here to say that the permits for exploitation have been reduced. [[Applause]] But look: no, history is different; operating permits since the year 2000 have been falling year after year, because the year 2000 is the year when this sector was professionalized and where all those people who went down only had their vacation months, which was when they opened the seafood campaigns, when it was professionalized and had to contribute to social security, stopped going down. But they weren't professionals from the sea. Since the year 2000, it has been decreasing — and indeed — the number of operating permits. But you know what? That since 2015 that situation has reverted and that in 2016 it was when the number of operating permits increased, and we are already in positive numbers as far as the year 2000. So they're not trying to pass on a negative idea of what this sector is. This sector has the capacity to generate the future. And what I'm telling the sector isn't that I want to blame them, I've never done it and I'll never do it; all I'm telling you is to make a specific plan in a free seafood area, it has to be in agreement with the sector itself. And so they would cease to follow the general rules of the free seafood and they would start to manage their own area of free shellfish with a plan as they do in their areas of authorization, and they could themselves present projects within the orders we make every year, and to those who welcome all the confreries, also when they will participate in the free shellfish zones, to recover these areas. So, Mr. Torrado, there's no abandonment, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u250	...no intention from any point of view of how much more can be done; many things can be done, and that's where I tell you we're working, but always with scientific arguments, not with demagogues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u252	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-21-DSPG034.u253	At the end of the agenda item debate, we finish the session. Thank you very much.
