ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u1	Let's start the session. Good morning. We started the session with point 1 of the agenda, legislative texts. No inassistances have been justified. The agenda is published in the Official Journal of Parliament. Let's start with point 1, legislating text. Debate on the Proposal for a Law to Present Before the Congress of Deputies, by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 24/2013, of 26 December, of the electric sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u2	Mr. Losada has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Socialists — as I imagine the whole of the country — want in this first intervention, which corresponds to me on the agenda, to manifest our solidarity and our affection with Portuguese neighbors and friends in the face of the enormous tragedy they are experiencing. In addition, we should think about two basic things: the importance of maintaining strong, time-consuming public policies in relation to the fight against climate change and the management of mountains and the prevention of forest fires. I believe that 67 deaths is a tremendous human drama; nearby deaths are idiomatic, cultural and geographically. [[Applause]] They should serve never again to use forest fires as a political tool against the government of turn. I was a Member in 2006 and I assure those who were not at that time that I know what I am talking about. We came to the presentation of this proposal for the Socialist Group's law in which these two issues are mixed up in relation to the Portuguese drama, although it is true that tangential: first, energy policy and environmental policy, which are actually two sides of the same coin, are two elements that clearly have to go into the current context of the hand, which have to be part of a strong and powerful public planning. Unfortunately, we have the example of the United States, which leaves this struggle inexplicably unexplained. And, fortunately, everything seems to indicate that the rest of the planet almost as a whole and, of course, the European Union remains on this line of action. There's a basic element in the electricity market, and it's regulation. Despite speeches of an ideological and political nature, we are talking about a market which is far from being what is understood as a free market without barriers to access; and so this makes the political dimension very relevant. In the last 20 years in this country, in the Spanish state, we have ruled the People's Party and the Socialist Workers' Party. Probably -- and I'm talking about it -- there were regulatory errors, but here we're going to talk about changing laws, and so we're going to talk about laws that were promulgated by a certain government. And I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the two laws that crafted what was the intended transition or the free competition of the electricity market, of a system that had an absolutely closed territorial allocation: the Law of the electricity sector of 1997 — Mr Aznar — and the Law of the electricity sector of 2013 — ruled Mr Rajoy. I don't want to distribute blame on a market that, objectively, doesn't work well, and it's enough to see the data: from the crisis, from 2008 to 2016, electricity demand has fallen by 5% and the average price of domestic energy has risen by 60%. Therefore, all that speech of adjusting via supply prices and demand undoubtedly does not work. In economic manuals it's very easy to know why these adjustment mechanisms don't work. They don't work because there are poorly done regulations or oligopolitic structures that do not allow an efficient allocation of supply and demand. And I want to give you the data, because I think it's very relevant, of the percentage of distribution -- I insist, of distribution, if we talk about production, the percentage would be even greater -- that concentrate the three largest electricity companies in this country, which are Endesa, Iberdrola and Gas Natural Union Fenosa -- 96% of the distribution. So when the economic leaders of these companies hear them say that the energy market is too far from being an oligopolie, or we move in the hair boot or we move in the fourth dimension. I insist, the three distributors concentrate 96% of the energy supply, both industrial and domestic consumers in this country, so they have a lot to say. And the Government — whatever it is — should be able to ensure that what the electricians have to say was not to the detriment of consumers exclusively, and also exclusively in favour of their results accounts. When he said he was lowering the demand and rising the prices, he said it was difficult to explain in terms of economic reasoning. If I say next door that these three companies had about EUR 6 billion in profits, we certainly know what we are talking about. We are talking about a market — by calling it somehow — clearly regulated in favour of one of the economic agents; economic agents who have a number of advantages we know — since we have been debating in this Parliament for a long time — and which are undoubtedly related, on the one hand, to the entry barriers — obviously, in the field of energy production, but we also see that in the field of distribution — and, on the other hand, they are also clearly connected with very favourable regulation. And this is exactly what we want to talk about, to change the laws so that, in fact, it's the legal corpus that goes slowly defining the relative positions of energy producers and energy consumers. I wouldn't say it's a class struggle because it sounds "old" and Marxist—old between quotes, I say not to...; at last, it was a rhetorical figure, it won't be that there is...—but, of course, it's a struggle of interest; it's clearly a struggle of interest, and the concrete example of this law's amendment with more reason. We intend to amend Law 24/2013 of 26 December, and we intend to do so because it inherits a situation created — as I said — before, in 1997, with the Act of the electric sector of Mr Aznar, which envisaged the possibility of integrating into the regulated part of the tariff all kinds of environmental taxes or electrical production of a non-State, autonomous or municipal nature. It was a government authority. We were at the time of "Spain is good", we were at the time of a certain economic-financial exuberance, that a part of it ended up in Soto del Real Corporation, but that, well, actually, was part of an important economic, political and social state. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, well... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u5	Man, "cojones" sounds a little rough said by you like that, doesn't it? I thought so. No one said that over there? I dreamed about it! Okay, okay, okay. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, good. [[Murmurs.]] Well, in any case, I was actually referring to Soto del Real Corporation because it was still in the media yesterday that not only fraudulent chiringuits were mounted out of prison but they were also mounted inside. With which, there's a natural pulse to the fraudulent chiringuits. [[Applause]] And it has to do with it; it has to do with a lot of what we're talking about with the fraudulent chiringuits, I don't know if it's with Soto del Real or some other penitentiary institution. And it has to do with because it was the People's Party governments who with all these arts — first, the 1997 Law; then, the Royal Order of Budget Stability of 2012; and then, the 2013 Law of the Electrical Sector — changed from something that was a generalized consensus in the Western countries, which is that "who pollutes pay" the "paying for those who suffer from pollution." And this or it's a conceptual mistake — that it's hard for me to believe it is — or there's very important economic interests in it. And it gives the feeling that there are very important economic interests in the same because there are fiscal amnesties that the Constitutional Court itself condemns, there are Panamanian roles in which the Minister of Industry of a Government of Spain appears... at last there is a whole range of methodological cultivation that unfortunately tastes or dislikes the members of the People's Party, ends up in Soto del Real Corporation. And so this is what we want to talk about. And in the autonomous government, in the Greek Government, it establishes environmental taxes, a wind canon, another on the environmental damage of the water encouraged and another on air pollution. Indeed, this authority of the Government, which is collected in the Law of the Year 2007 and which in the Royal Decree of the Year 2011 becomes compulsory, is visited. There is a whole house party of ping pong, complaints and judgments of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. And, in fact, what ends up is that the state is obliged to introduce these quotas, these access fees, these taxes of an autonomous or local environmental nature. We're talking about relatively important quantities. The wind cannon collected every year around 23 million euros in Galicia. If we add to this the environmental damage of the encouraged water and the atmospheric pollution we are located in about 40 million euros a year. And, therefore, we have an important amount of funds that — I repeat again — will be transferred from "who pollutes" to "who suffers from pollution." I believe that this is the idea of legislators that we undoubtedly intend to modify with this bill. We understand, first, that it is discriminatory because this would mean that an energy consumer, a neighbour of Valdeorras Carballeda, would pay in their electric receipt for an energy that is probably consumed in the Town Hall of Domingo Flórez Bridge, which is the neighbouring municipality of the Castela-Leon Community; and the consumers of Castela-Leon, who do not suffer the encores of the Sil River system, would not have to pay that overcost. So, in terms of territorial terms, in terms of that which you speak so much about market equality — that I share, I insist — so that there are no environmental changes — that I share — it is far from strengthening that position of market unity. Of course, it also goes against the autonomous self-government of the autonomous communities. And in this case Mr. Nuñez Feijóo doesn't know how to answer. There was a three-month period for the Supreme Court to provide information and, therefore, for the Government of Spain to incorporate these costs into the regulated tariff. It is true that the Autonomous Community has not responded, it has not provided information, but it has not acted politically — I insist, in political terms, because it is true that the judgments must be complied with — but when the judgments are based on unfair laws what needs to be done is to change the laws, it seems quite reasonable. Therefore, in this context — I insist — of absolute discrimination for the autonomous communities that suffer the environmental costs of electricity production — which, of course, is not only Galicia, at all — and to transfer precisely to the consumers of that autonomous community these overcosts, when there are highly energy-deficit autonomous communities, that is, they consume much, much more than they produce and therefore do not have to take on that tariff, is the general framework in which we present this bill. The aim is to amend only two articles of Law 24/2013, to delete Article 16.4, to delete Article 17.6 and to amend in Article 17.7 the references to the incorporation of environmental taxes at regulated costs. We believe that this places us in legal terms in a much more stable position, which allows us not to be playing with the cat and mouse with the Ministry of whether or not we provide the information, etc., that it would allow us to have an equal situation in relation to the impacts of production and energy consumption in different autonomous communities and, of course, allow us all to move forward a little — I say a little — in the transparency of the electricity market and invoicing electricity for consumers. In this period of post-vergence, the fact in contrast, I have a Minister of Christmas — which is true that something has improved with respect to the previous one; I believe that at least a minimal environmental sensitivity shows in his speech, all must be said—that says: "The Minister rejects rising from light in Galicia when he does not foresee refactoring by the wind canon." Of course, he doesn't plan to re-infection. The re-inflation is raised because, of course, there will be no other stage, but what is true is that there is absolutely a judgment — I insist, ladies and gentlemen — that requires a law to be enforced. So the best solution to avoid this discrimination in Galicia is to change the law, and how it seems absolutely reasonable to do so from a surplus community in energy production, such as Galicia — energy that, in addition to having a strong environmental impact, both hydraulics and wind or thermal — I hope to have the majority support of this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u6	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u7	Good morning to all of you. As it could not be otherwise, from the Galego Nationalist Block we also want our first words to be of affection and solidarity for our Portuguese people at these hard times, as well as for all the people around Melón, who until yesterday at the last hour were very concerned about a terrible fire of more than 150 hectares, and also for all the workers and workers of the Urense province's Fire Prevention and Extinction Service, who in less than half an hour will be focused on the fearsome policies of cutting this irresponsible government of Junta de Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Speaking of which, ladies and gentlemen, we know that since the Galician Nationalist Block, we understand that access to electricity is a basic right. "No one can argue, not even do it the law that the Socialist Party today proposes to modify, that today human activity cannot be understood without its existence." And what I just said is literal words from the preamble to this law, but we're talking about changing a particular aspect of a law that doesn't even, unlike the previous one in 1997, considers electricity to be an essential service. Worse in 2013, when we had the opportunity to reform this law, we took no advantage of it; we took no advantage of an opportunity to view electricity as a public good and that capitalist conception of energy was reinforced as an activity of primarily economic interest; an absolutely mercantilist conception which, with this law, advanced in the oligopolization and re-centralisation of the sector, a sector that is price-bound and which deals with conditions at the back of consumers. And this has been translated — and we can see the thread of the debate that brings us here today — both in a greater vulnerability for users and in a lower capacity of intervention for communities, which we have seen absolutely reduced our margin to exercise our limited political power in this state and autonomous corset. In short, he was affixed then, as he was expected, not to shield the rights of consumers and also to do so consciously and in a context of crisis. Indeed, from the Nationalist Galego block to that we call it class struggle, Mr. Losada. Now we see some of the consequences, which worsen the situation. [[Applause]] With regard to this proposal that this party brings us here today, our vote will be positive. It couldn't be otherwise since we ourselves have made very similar proposals, through the formulation of non-law proposals, precisely to delete these articles and thereby shield a right and eliminate the risks of territorial supplements. We understand that it is obvious that in view of the demands of operators, of the Supreme's rulings, as well as of the requirements by the Central Government, we must wait—just the People's Party does not expect—a rise in the electric bill; a rise that will have repercussions for consumers in a much more complex context, where they will also influence other factors such as this heat wave that we are going through or, for example, the cold wave that we cross at the beginning of the year, or other factors such as the possible repercussions of that upward of the state hydraulic canon, which we do not know yet that Mr. Rajoy has thought about that, if you take it out of the state budgets the way of undercover subsidy, if you allow it to rise through the bill, or if already, as Mr. Rajoy says, "how much worse, better", to allow both armed robberys. In any case, focusing on this specific risk of rising the electric bill, the People's Party is curiously denying, through its parliamentary spokesmen and government representatives in this Parliament itself, that this will affect Galicia. They did not, in fact, support those proposals to which I had referred earlier, which launched the Nationalist Block of Galicia within the Committee on Industry, to ensure that taxes were taxed through these territorial supplements. We don't know if they're going to rectify or do some kind of facial wash today, but, in any case, whenever we see that couple in the electric sector and in the People's Party, at least we have to be suspicious and alert. We want to insist, in addition, on taking advantage of this intervention, in another factor. We are focusing very much on the repercussions of elements like wind cannon and we are leaving aside another aspect that if you pick up this law, take it in hand, and that in addition to last year and a half has been quite welcomed in our country, which is all about those taxes, local territorial supplements, which are launching many of the councils at local rates to the electricity sector, also councils of the Nationalist Block of Wales. We are not exempt from the fact that the electricity itself comes to the courts so that we can also recover, via electric bill, this tax burden. So there is only one argument before the Bureau that we now reach an agreement and we launch a powerful message from the legislative power to the electricians: that we are not going to allow this abuse and that we are not going to allow it any less in a territory that is surplus, because this is already the real nonsense and the life of the vice versa. Not only does Galicia benefit not only from being a power producer but also from having the environmental and anti-democratic impact that has not chosen any Welsh or Welsh, but, still above butter, beaten and beaten. Such is the nonsense, that we would end up paying more on the electric bill than any other community that doesn't have these characteristics. That's why, as I say, we're going to vote favourably, but we didn't want to stop making any killings too. It is important to remember that the articles proposed to be deleted were already collected in the former law of the 1997 electricity sector by means of a few other points. And this law of the People's Party could have been modified by the Socialist Party of the State Government, because I was very young or not born, but between Aznar and Rajoy would swear that some president with an absolute majority of the Socialist Party passed through the Government of the State. It is true that both the law of 1997 and the law of 2013 included this provision of tax burden as an option and not as an obligation until the 2012 Decree, but it is not less true the paradox that we can find if we revise that parliamentary procedure and the amendments to that reform. So, the Galician Nationalist Block, consistent with what I'm defending in this House, defended precisely its suppression and warned of what could happen. On the contrary, not only did the Socialist Party ask not only for its elimination, but it still reinforced the text, even maintaining the obligation of this supplement, something that the People's Party did as well. In this sense, it must be remembered that the original bill collected the mandatory supplements, which only after the parliamentary process remained as a possibility; a possibility that then, through the back door, the Government of the People's Party imposed on all of them. In any case, we applaud the correction of the Socialist Party's state line and hope that the People's Party will do the same today in this House. In addition, I would like to remind you that, since we are seeing a situation where we see something wrong and therefore demand a change in the law of the electricity sector, because we should collectively lose fear of demanding so many other modifications of this unfair electricity sector that drowns our country. Not in vain, when this law has been passed, many of the political organizations present here — so in the opposition — we have signed a commitment to repeal this law ad futurum when the majority of parliament has done so. I understand that this has its complexity, that it has to generate an alternative when you repeal a law, but what we could do collectively is implement more improvements in this legal framework. He spoke before he lost an opportunity in 2013 to really intervene on this oligopolie. For now in Galicia 2017 we are faced with another opportunity; that opportunity for the Greeks and the Greeks that represents this popular legislative initiative in the process against energy poverty and the purpose of a Greek electric tariff. So, if we can reason that the most beneficial thing for our country is the removal of these concrete articles that the Socialist Party brings us today, why not dare reform and modify those that prevent us from developing our capacities and having a very own, very important energy policy? I invite all the forces here present to be more ambitious and ambitious, not simply to comply with the disappearance of these points and to safeguard the non-imposition of territorial supplements. We're here now playing a lot more. At the moment, none of the rapporteurs who came to the Commission 6a said that it was not possible to establish a Greek electric tariff for our country; they only brought the weight of state law and the railroad control it exercises over the various communities. But given that what we are debating today is evidence that there is an absolute lie that there is a single tariff in the state and that we are prepared to be still penalized with a higher invoice because we are producers, because it is very logical that we are now being brave, to dare with a wider change and to be able to develop an energy policy of ours in which not only the taxes we have established for electrical production do not affect consumer people, but rather that we take advantage of many other potentialities which, because of the state and the complicity of those from Galicia follow their appearance, are not currently possible, with terrible consequences. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u9	Good morning. As it could not be otherwise, the En Marea Group moves all its solidarity with the Portuguese people and with all the families of the victims affected by the fires of the last days. Let's talk today about the law of all laws, the mother of all laws, so I hope you pay me some attention. The law of the electric sector, the famous 24/2013, of Minister Soria — the minister accused of producing evidence in convolvement with a supposed corrupt judge to eliminate a political rival — is a real master of how to spoil all citizenship through a public service of first necessity. You should really study at all universities. It is the culmination of the philosophy initiated by Mr. Solchaga, who said, "The best industrial policy is that which does not exist." So that we can innovate, manufacture things, if we can make ourselves rich with the policy of first-needed goods, such as electricity, water, telephonies, privatized health, etc.Is that what you're talking about? The electricity business in Spain is undoubtedly one of the most profitable in the world; all economic reports ratify it. It is the companies themselves who set the prices taking into account the costs which they themselves determine. The citizen only knows how much he has to pay when the receipt comes home. Consumer associations call on governments to conduct public audits to know the real costs of production, distribution and marketing, but companies have denied and so far the Administration has not wanted to demand that they be public and transparent. The amendments tabled by the Socialist Group are a small patch in this policy. Of course, articles that are considered to be deleted are already the end of the deletion. They pay consumers in an area affected by negative externalities inherent in electricity generation and surprisingly here who does not pay, but they charge. Really, it looks amazing, but it's black on white in that bad law. We will therefore vote in favour of deleting these articles of the law. But this doesn't solve the problem, since article 13.5 of the law makes it clear that any increase in spending on the system, as in this case environmental taxes or municipal charges for the use of public space by electricity lines, will have to be offset by an increase in income. And, of course, electricity companies, if they are not allowed to charge these costs to consumers, as the law now says, would ask their great protector and accomplice, that is, to the state; and all for the good and the stability of the system. In short, we would pay it from the state's general budgets, or we would pay it back all citizenship. But the electrical companies and the rotating governments don't say -- they hide -- there's another way to maintain the budgetary balance of the system, and it would come from the reduction of other absolutely scandalous costs. This is where the problem lies and it will be the basis of an En Marea bill for a complete reformulation of this law and the previous ones, which have allowed billions of euros to be stolen from all Spaniards, every year, for decades. I'm going to list only the most important ones, because I won't have time for everything I suppose, but I would really recommend that they read this law; it's ninety truly impressive pages. First point: remuneration for distribution. It assumes more than 5,000 million euros a year, calculated, as in most cases all that the law implies, only with the data provided by the oligopolie distributors. Not only will we require an audit of the real cost, but we think it is essential to take this natural monopoly into public control, as is already done with electricity transport and following what most European countries do, the last Netherlands, which, in 2015, welcomed by the European Union, has assumed public control over the management of electricity distribution. Nuclear moratoria. We will audit all the payments made, which, in our view, have exceeded the real cost by far; the cost for all Spanish consumers was EUR 6 billion. Annuities of the tariff deficit throughout its history, a truly creative invention that will cost us Spanish and Greek more than 30 billion euros. Remunerations to hydraulic and nuclear production—the so-called commonly fallen benefits of the sky—and fully amortised production facilities, and we will also request their withdrawal from daily and intraday market auctions, which are not part of the marginal auctions to set the price of energy, as is also done in most European countries. And here I will make — for the people who see us on television and also for the ladies and gentlemen — a small example of walking around the house. This is like we go to the first week of the month to a large surface and buy the big purchase of the month, then on the 10th day we forgot one thing and we go to the supermarket and we buy those things, which are obviously a little more expensive than the same thing we buy on the large commercial surface, and finally on the 28th day we have to go surprisingly one Sunday to a store these 24 hours, where prices are usually 20% above what we normally pay for any product. For this is the system that develops in the electricity sector: it enters the cheapest production — nuclear, wind and hydraulic — and then the rest of the production systems are entering, increasingly expensive. When it comes to the end, when production equals demand, which is what the system has to do, everything that was previously sold applies the price of the last bid bid; that is, to us, in the previous case, if we were required to pay the price difference of what we paid in the store 24 hours from what we bought in the supermarket and what we bought in the large commercial area. That is, every month we would have to blow up that big business area and the supermarket the difference between what we were charged with and what cost us the last one we bought for a higher price. A real disincentive. And now we're going with the most amazing and shocking point, which is the so-called "transitional costs to competition," recognized to the electricians by the Electric Sector Law, approved by Mr. Aznar in 1997. I think that even Milton Friedman must have been amazed where his advanced students from the People's Party could come from and some from the Socialist Party as well, like Mr. Solchaga. They derive directly from the liberalisation process. In the prior negotiations, the electricians claimed their acquired rights. They said, "I've spent a lot of millions on building nuclear or combined-cycle power stations, making calculations to recover investment in thirty or forty years, and now you're coming to liberalize the sector and the price of electricity is going to drop a lot and I'm going to lose some of the investment." The companies estimated that around EUR 56.700 million was the cost of transition to competition, but, with this theoretical liberalisation of the sector, just the opposite occurred: the prices of electricity have not ceased to rise, from the first moment beyond. So not only would the electricians have to charge nothing, but they should return the money to the state or have it used to lower the price of the receipt or compensate fees, such as those we are dealing with today, by environmental impact, landscape or use of the public domain. But during these twenty years they haven't done either one or the other, they've directly stayed with the money, with the satisfaction of all the tournist politicians in their board of directors, who carry some remuneration from this money. These remunerations are denounced before the courts of the European Union to be considered State aid and returned to the system. If you get — which we hope you do — you can assume an immediate 10% drop in the light receipt, which could be maintained for at least 15 years to compensate for these so-called costs of transition to competition. Also an example of walking around the house. Let's imagine that milk is considered a public good of necessity and essential for the population and the state tells the owners: you have to sell milk necessarily, but, as the market will pay you 20 cents per litre, I will compensate you with 5 cents every year every liters you sell, with which you will charge 25 cents, which is what you, the producer, say it costs to produce milk. This provision is put in place and it turns out that milk is no longer sold at 20 cents, it is sold at 30. Of course, what would be normal? The state had told the milk producer: look, as if it's selling 30 and it costs you five, I'm not gonna make it up to you, you earn it. Well, no, the costs of transition to competition tell him that, even though over the years, and much more now -- imagine: the price that was marked as reference was 30 euros megavatio/hour and now they're paying between 60 and 90 -- in addition to that they're already earning a lot more than anything I could imagine, the state continues to pay them that differential of the theoretical loss that they would have to move to competition. Absolutely demented. This is actually the biggest scam in Spain at the moment. It is a scam that, if all that money had been recovered, if all the costs had been audited, it could still finance many of the deficits we have in education, in health care and in many other sectors. But the electric sector, as we all know, much more even than water...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u11	...even if the telephony—which, indeed, had a small incorporation into competition—is untouchable. And why is it untouchable? You all know that. All we have to do is look at who's on the board of directors of companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u12	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. As it couldn't be otherwise, we also expressed our condolences and solidarity with our Portuguese neighbours from the People's Group. We are also united with all the volunteer firemen and troops who are working tirelessly on these terrible fires and also with all the means that the Spanish State has sent to help try to eradicate the fires as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Turning back to the question, Mr. Losada, I find it very well the long exposition of motives that you make on this initiative, particularly very in detail since 2012, but with a little more vacuum from 1997 to 2012. Look, Your Honor, what happened all these years? From 2004 to 2011 you ruled. So I think some kind of responsibility if you're dealing with the problems of the electricity sector. You don't like us talking about Mr. Zapatero's Bipartite or Government, but it's just that, look, in this case it's necessary to understand what were the reasons that led the Government of the People's Party in 2013 to pass this law and do it in the conditions in which it was made. Indeed, a law in the electricity sector has been in force since 1997 until 2013, because you have not been able to define a proper energy policy. In the first part of Mr Zapatero's term of office — years of kindness — they received the full ark of the former People's Party's Government and the energy policy of the Socialist Government was to increase the costs of regulated activities of the electricity system by more than 300% since 2005. Mr. Losada, in 2013, when the law was passed, the cost forecasts of the electricity system were around €22,500 million, with revenues of only €18 billion, the main difference in the result of the wrong political decisions of the past. In this Parliament I only heard that the tariff deficit is an invention of the electricians, which is a farce, which is not true, that the electric companies have benefits. So why is there a tariff deficit? If you talk with that roundness and security, you should take it to the courts, because I understand that there are government officials who don't let themselves be deceived so easily. So big power companies lie about the costs and government and all the competent staff that are, fortunately, in our administrations believe so, without more more. It's not as you say, ladies and gentlemen of the Tide. Look, we don't like their models, we don't like most of the Greeks. Returning to the theme, Mr. Losada, the main purpose of the 2013 Law has been summed up in four objectives: the first was that income from the electrical system should be sufficient to cover the costs of regulated activities in the sector; the second, to establish a rule of economic and financial stability, by means of an automatic fee review system; the third, to limit the introduction of new costs in the system, if not accompanied by equivalent income; and the fourth, that those overcosts generated by autonomy or by municipalities and that do not affect the generality of the system would have to be borne by consumers in the corresponding areas. And that's where your complaint comes from, object of this proposal. But I'm going to put them back on track once more. In the 1997 Act, territorial supplements were optional, and yes, at one time, about a year, for a decree of the year 2012 were mandatory, until the 2013 Law was approved, in which they were again made optional. And now what you're asking is that the law be amended and removed from it. But, look, the hemerotheque is treacherous, and I don't know if this is a conceptual mistake or whether you, gentlemen, when you dealt with this law, asked with your amendments not only not to remove the territorial supplements, but what you asked is that they were mandatory. [[Applause]] Your Honor, look, Amendments Nos 287 and 293, corresponding to Articles 16 and 17, which you ask to repeal right now, replace the sentence of the text of the law "a territorial supplement may be included" with "a territorial supplement shall be included". And in the explanatory statement of both amendments they said — textually, Your Honor: "It is necessary to return to the obligation to include in the tolls or charges the territorial supplements corresponding, in the cases of autonomous taxes, on electrical activities or installations. It is not reasonable to transfer to all consumers either at the costs of regulated activities recognised in the tolls of access or through the free market price. Such an autonomous decision would affect all consumers at national level, in terms that would not be justified. It therefore seems logical that it is the citizens of the autonomous communities who take a decision from their Government." That's what you said, Mr. Losada, and they wrote in their amendments to the Law of 2013. Tell me, how do you understand what you're asking for here now? You said you had to make such mandatory territorial supplements when you passed this law in Congress. But finally, after rejecting his amendments, they were left in the law, as I said before, optionally. Mr. Losada, we do not share that these supplements have to be mandatory, nor does the idea of the Socialist Group. We understand that the State reserves the possibility of monitoring taxation on regulated activity in the electricity sector, since it is necessary to guarantee the economic and financial sustainability of the sector and — I repeat, ladies and gentlemen — to avoid situations of the past which led us to 26 billion euros, an unsustainable mortgage that we all pay. Look, in that highly criticized law, there is a reasonable profitability for each installation of 7.5 percent and a few cuts, so annually to companies of about 2,000 million euros. What have you done, Your Honor, in the electric sector? I tell him: inflate the bubble, and then, when he no longer gave more, he had to call again the Government of the People's Party to regulate the situation [[Applause]] Look, I know they don't like to talk about the past, we know it, but you talk about it every day of the past, and they put us all in the same bag. That's why, when there are initiatives that speak of a law of the past, a few years ago, we have to go back to the past to explain it well and not that they always use their mantras, ladies and gentlemen. And there's more. Here we are accused every day, repeatedly, of standing next to the big power companies. Look, you've forgiven more than 3,000 million euros, so you've charged the power companies too much with the cost of transition to competition. They had a report and they didn't get it out, and now they know they've been prescribed, ladies and gentlemen, for years, and we can't claim it. Look, Galician environmental taxes, such as wind canon, do not record electrical supply activities or installations and therefore cannot be included in electricity bills paid by the Greek consumers. The Government of the Union has already on several occasions transferred the Government of the State to its refusal to include these taxes in the electric bill, because it is understood that they have an impact on the environment. The German Government has expressly expressed its opposition to these taxes being included in the territorial supplements and being abused by consumers located in Galicia. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme at no time presumes that taxes should be taken into account and much less refers to Galicia. We are not going to support this initiative, Mr Losada, because the Greek environmental taxes do not record electricity. Look, the state government is right now contributing to improving energy transition policy, with the adjudication of a auction of 3,000 megawatts of renewable power. Wind technology was the main adjudicator of auction, since it is the technology that the most amount of energy brings towards achieving target 2020. The adjudicators of this auction offered as much discount as possible, which means that new renewable projects will be carried out without the need for additional premiums to the market, i.e. at no cost to the electric consumer. Many of these projects will be a reality in Galicia, and of course they will generate jobs, as the electricity sector now moves in our community, with more than 30,000 jobs. So, how do they say we don't get anything to produce energy? Is it not important for you, Mr. BNG, that the number of jobs or wages that are also generated by distribution or transport is not important? Look, due to the great success of this auction, another one is already planned for the end of July, another 3,000 megawatts, which Spain will place around 20% of the penetration of renewables, still three years to push further measures if necessary. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, in the past the Council of Ministers has approved aid worth EUR 336 million for projects that favour the transition to a low carbon economy for local entities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, which will certainly take advantage of many Greek councils to boost energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction measures and which will, of course, also generate jobs. And to finish by now, remember that the German Government continues to contribute, of course, with savings and energy efficiency, with measures like the Efficient Housing Plan, with help also for local entities, or by improving their own administrations. It continues to provide information and advice for consumers to know what type of contract is most appropriate for them, to pay less, and, of course, with the aid battery for families with less economic resources. Tell them also that the wind cannon, so criticized by you, has collected about 160 million euros from its creation, and that, as you will know, is directed to the Environmental Compensation Fund for the municipalities that have these facilities and for those who present environmental regeneration projects. He didn't say that, Mr. Losada. This is the energy policy responsible for the governments of the People's Party. The rest is trying to alarm and confuse the population. The Greeks and the Greeks know what they want, and they made it clear, they know that they have chosen a government that doesn't deceive them and that fights why they live with the highest quality and stability possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Replica. Author group of the bill, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by order of speeches. Madam President, indeed, the struggle of classes is an important analytical mechanism. Socialists like more the redistribution of income through progressive taxes that allow essential public services to be shielded in a framework of individual freedom. Maybe we're a little snobs, but of course that's our analytical and political framework. [[Applause]] With regard to the intervention of En Marea, man!, the truth is that it is a pity that, having voted in Congress of Deputies to remove the People's Party from the Government, they did not, because then we would all be in a position to promulgate new laws in Madrid. I think it is also appropriate to reflect on this issue. [[Applause]] And as for Mr Solchaga, look, the economic policy of the governments of Felipe González allowed this country to improve its relative position against Europe as never in the economic history of the last two centuries and to improve the redistribution of income and wealth. By the way, others are about to see what they get. With regard to the speech of Mrs Novoa, a spokesperson for the People's Party, I am willing to speak of the Bipartite, of the Zapatero governments, I am willing to speak absolutely of everything. If I only said that the only laws on the electricity sector that there was were were in 1997, with Mr. Aznar and Mr. Rajoy in 2013, with Mr. Rajoy. And I also said that we ruled for eight years and that we could therefore have changed them and we didn't. I said it, I think I said it in the intervention. But I'm talking about what you want. Look, I'm talking about the costs of transition to competition, which, Mrs. Novoa, were in the Law of 1997. What was the competition? Is that 96% in the total distribution in the hands of three companies, which only they did was redistribute the geographic areas in this country? It is studied from the journalistic, political, academic perspective, from all possible prisms. So the costs of transition to competition, which the Socialist Party did not cancel when it ruled, were a gift from Mr. Aznar to the electricians, and were the leaven of Soto del Real Corporation. It's all I said, it's all I said. And by the way, I keep it. And indeed, we tabled an amendment to the Law of the electricity sector of 2013, in a given economic context and at a time in which it was actually opening itself up, yes, yes, because there was a fall in the tax collection at the state level, in the autonomic and local level, and if it was actually opening up an outbreak that virtually most of the autonomous communities, as you well know — thirteen of seventeen — and many municipalities were introducing that taxation, and therefore before generalization it seemed reasonable to us to incorporate. [[Murmurs.]] The problem is, now we're talking about a specific period, of 2012, Mrs. Novoa, it's like that or not; the advantage of chronology is that it is. In the face of this generalization, in 2013 — and we all know — tax burdens have increased, both in municipal and autonomic areas, in energy production and transport, mainly in transport. And that was the reason for presenting that amendment. By the way, I don't know if we were right or not, I don't know if you were right or not. What I do know is that the law, as it is, means that instead of those who pollute, it pays those who suffer from pollution, and this is an undeniable fact. This can't beat me; you can tell me what you want, but this is exactly the way it is. If in the fare we pay the Greeks if we're going to incorporate the wind canon, the water that's encouraged and the other... you say no, but I don't know very well why you say no, because in the budgets there is nowhere, anywhere in the law... no, it's not true, because in the memory of the budgets of the year 2017 the environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and use of the encouraged water, the wind canon and the taxes of atmospheric pollution appear exactly in the same fiscal package. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you say you don't join in, but I want to know what's behind that statement, I really want to know what the foundation is, because — I insist — I have here the memory of the government's budgets that you support. So, in principle nowhere does it appear that it cannot be included. And what I'm saying -- and what we're keeping -- is that it's not reasonable for you to pay more for energy in the place where it happens in front of the place where it's consumed, when, even above, consumers should hypothetically assume transport costs and energy losses, which, as you know, exist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u17	It's over, Mr. President. Anyway, what they have to explain to the Greeks from the People's Party is what is the reason to vote against this bill of law that would not increase the bill they pay for electricity consumption. And, of course, if it's not to do the power companies a favor, please tell us who the lucky NGO receives these funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u18	Thank you. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a law. The doors are closed and we proceed to the vote. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 24/2013, of 26 December, of the electric sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u19	We move on to the second item on the agenda. Comparison of education activities in Galicia by the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Education, on his own request
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u20	Mr Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this week is significant in education because it ends educational activity in the more than 1,100 public educational centres in Galicia. For this reason, we believe it is appropriate to appear in this House with a double objective: the first is to perform an accounting exercise, evaluating what is done in this school course; and the second — why not say so? — is to promote a joint reflection on the future of non-university education and, given the current regulatory circumstances, also in the state as a whole. What does reporting mean? For it means informing and demonstrating that the commitments made with the educational community for the 2016-2017 course have been reasonably achieved and have yielded results. This time the commitments were first exposed at the end of the 2015-2016 course, during the election campaign and at the beginning of the tenth legislation in the investment debate, and also through the lines of action of the Council presented in this same House in my last appearance. They are clear and known commitments, which mean assuming political and organizational responsibility to manage the system and advance in educational quality, also to comply with the applicable basic standards at every moment, developing the rules with responsibility within the assigned competences, and working day by day for the improvement of quality and educational equity. In addition, the Council acquired the obligation to equip Galicia with a perfectly defined educational model, which started from a transformation about the one that existed in 2009. This process of modernization and improvement has advanced in areas as relevant as language betting, for the real integration of ICTs into the learning process and for an FP closer to the country's socio-productive reality; all of this, coupled with the adoption of transversal measures aimed at educational innovation, strengthening the autonomy of centres, improving educational infrastructure and equipment, attention to diversity and promoting coexistence and equity. I will never get tired of saying this: we have a good education system, which we must feel proud of; and I say it proudly. We have a good educational system, in which we all put our degree of area: teachers, families, trade union organizations, administrations, etc. Of course, it's not about falling into greed or driving or generating false expectations. What we have to be aware of is reality and we must assume and we must recognize that the quality and fairness of teaching is not the product of chance; on the contrary, it is the result of a lot of effort and strategic actions of counseling, but also, above all, of the necessary and important involvement and collaboration of the educational community as a whole. More than 372,600 pupils and students in this course were trained in childhood education in Galicia, in special education, in primary education, in ESO and in Bachelorate and in the various vocational training cycles. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to appreciate how it is worth the fact that educational activity has developed with an enormous normality, far, by the way, from certain negative wishes that often abound both at the end and at the beginning of school. And there are several examples. A year ago, also in June, I came to this House to report on the effort to improve educational facilities to prepare for the new course. At that time there were many criticisms launched and doubts about whether what was announced would remain in mere words. The reality was different. At the beginning of the 2016-2017 course, at the beginning of September, of a total of 715 events planned throughout Galicia, the Council had already assessed more than 90%, from the Infrastructure Fund for the period 2016-2020, from the Responsibility Superavit Fund and from the actions of RAM. Works were assisted at that time during this process for more than 40 million euros, at 50% of Galician public centers, to the point that there were performances in two out of three of the Greek municipalities. In addition, the Council invested nearly 2 million euros in equipment, both for the provision of vocational training cycles and for the acquisition of robotic material, to promote its use in ESO and in Bachelorship. Without a doubt, one of the issues we have discussed with many politicians throughout this course was the new mandate received by citizens to achieve a political and social state pact for education. The central government understood this and took the necessary steps to adapt to the new political and social reality, respecting the existing legality. In this context, the position of the Galician Union has always been in defence of the interests of the Greek education, without undermining loyalty and necessary institutional collaboration. The proof of this loyal cooperation was, for example, the fact that in September the Council asked the Ministry of Education that the final evaluation of ESO stage final had no academic effects. So, and at the moment, in order to foster dialogue and move towards a pact for education, the central government took note of the proposal and proposed the suspension of the academic effects of the final evaluations of ESO and bacharelate. Ladies and gentlemen, time gives and takes away reasons. What you've qualified for up to very little time since the revalids were evidence of evaluation without academic value. They were not used for rankings or used for seducing pupils or families or for recentralizing anything. They were evidence that they served and serve to know the situation of the education system in Galicia compared to the state's whole and to work and improve what needs to be improved. Of course, it is a pity that educational interests had an impact in Galicia that did not live in other autonomous communities, because evaluations were also carried out in other autonomous communities, because they were, first, the result of an agreement at the Sectoral Conference last November, also of a political agreement in the Congress of Deputies and, of course, it is a legal mandate. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, you, like Saint Thomas, need to see to believe, perhaps have to do to believe. And maybe you, like St. Thomas, had to see that these assessments had no academic value, to abandon certain criticisms and certain alarm messages. I believe that at this moment, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to take on reality and it would be a healthy exercise, an exercise of its democracy, that they have done an act of contrition and that they admit that the Council, like other educational communities and administrations, has carried out the evaluations provided for by the law in force, has complied with the applicable law, and has complied with a unanimous agreement of the Sector Conference, of the Ministry and of the various autonomous communities, with different governments of very different kinds, and also in the area of the Congress of Deputies. They must admit that, with the Royal Decree of the Ministry's law governing the organization of these assessments, the agreement was fulfilled and that certain alarms generated on the dates prior to the celebration only affected teaching at the end, and you are amplifiers of these alarms. Another proof of his political behaviour to that of the Holy Thomas — to say something about him — has to do with the public job offer. Once again, it has been shown that time gives and takes away reasons, and that the hopes and alarms that you at some point have raised and pointed and asked at some point even for your part that there were no oppositions have not been met. The prudence regarding the legal security of the summons that held the Board was the subject of a political attack which, once again, was completely denied by reality. In fact, this Saturday, the 24th day, will begin the exams normally, nearly 15,000 people will opt to the more than 1,000 squares — 1,043 squares — that are offered in several specialties, fulfilling the 100% coverage of the replacement rate. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that these examples of criticisms later denied by reality — there are many others — should be animals all putting aside the interests of partisans and allies in teaching to, once and for all, seek agreements and work, in an act of true contrition, to improve the formation of future generations. Having said the above, it seems more appropriate to focus on the positive and make an analysis of the situation to, among all, continue to move forward. The reality is that today the Welsh educational model means, firstly, a clear and defined bet by plurilingualism, ICTs and technological skills, by the inclusion and integration of diversity and by value, by the prestige of vocational training; all of this, accompanied by cross-cutting measures, such as the autonomy of centres or the good climate of coexistence, which contribute to building this model that promotes continuous improvement. And let's talk, ladies and gentlemen, about multilingualism. In this course, close to 100,000 boys have benefited from multilingual education in Galicia. It's no less than 75% of publicly funded centres participated in any of the foreign language learning initiatives: bilingual sections, multilingual centers, auxiliaries, etc. We have a total of 282 schools offering multilingual education, almost 3,900 bilingual sections in a total of 632 public-funded centres, 504 language conversation assistants, and Galicia is the second autonomous community in Spain. Ultimately, language learning is one of the strategic lines of the German Government to advance in a more modern public school, which clearly advances towards social equity and creates more opportunities for our students. With regard to digital education, as you know, in collaboration with Amtega, this course also continues with the digitization of all public classes, from 5th primary to the bachelor's degree. In this way, 120,000 students in about 900 public centers are called a "digital classroom kit," about 52,000 students around 540 have a computer to use in the classroom. And, on the other hand, the digital book project, known as E-dixgal, worked, which benefited about 7,000 pupils and students of 5th and 6th and 1st and 2nd ESO and more than 100 —104 — educational centers throughout Galicia. On the other hand, Galicia is also a reference to the state as a whole with regard to policies for promoting and promoting reading in classrooms. That's why it should be noted that in this course, the Plan for the Improvement of School Libraries — known as Plambe — was attended by 615 centres in Galicia, directly benefiting about 181,600 students and their families. In this sense, it should be remembered that the results of the Pisa Report on Reading Competition have had a very remarkable advance, evaluating the work done in recent years. In fact, we had an improvement of 13 percentage points, being the autonomous communities and the territories evaluated by the OECD that have greater competence in this matter by the student. In addition, this course also introduced the 2016-2020 School Library Plan to continue the work for school libraries and the promotion of reading among schoolchildren. Vocational training. Vocational training today is fortunately identified with modernity, with dynamism, with innovation, and is a way of teaching a high social prestige. There is no doubt a determined bet of the current Council of Galicia by this type of study, and the really positive thing is that the student has responded very positively, with clear registration data. We must be, ladies and gentlemen, proud of the Welsh FP. We have over 50,000 enrolled students, 50,344 students and students. In fact, Galicia is one of the few autonomous communities where there are more students enrolled in cycles — around 60% — than in bachelor's degree — around 40% —. We have taken important steps in the supply of cycles, in the implementation of basic FP and in the development of dual vocational training. But obviously we have to keep moving. However, it is worth noting that Galicia has a vocational training connected with the demand of companies, connected with the demand of the productive sectors, which enables students to obtain, firstly, a high qualification; secondly, that this training also enables them to stay in the education system, namely basic vocational training; and thirdly — and of great importance — which promotes the inclusion of our students, having data around 80% of the job placement of those who have just completed vocational training. And when we balance — as we do at present — it is necessary and mandatory to talk about results. The improvement of our education is a progressive process in time, which is based on an own educational model, which currently presents satisfactory results both in quality and equity. Variables that illustrate what I just said: Galicia has a drop in education will be 10 points below what was in 2009, almost reaching the target set by the European Union by 2020, which is at 15%. We closed the year 2016 with a 15% with a tenths of nothing else, so we're reducing one of the most socially unjust variables teaching as school dropout. Today as well, students and students in Greece are better prepared in mathematics, in science and reading, the variables that the Pisa Report evaluates. We're above the Spanish average on the three variables and we're above the OECD average on the three variables: mathematics, scientific knowledge and also reading understanding, reaching the best recent data in our history. And the results, no doubt, encourage continued progress in quality and equity. To move forward in the two variables, because moving forward only in quality leads to a certain elitism, and moving forward only in equity leads to ineffectiveness and a waste of resources. Equitable and innovative teaching. We work to ensure that families are and are satisfied with the training their children receive by having innovative educational programs that provide learning in an appropriate climate of coexistence, equity and social justice. We consider it a matter of priority to maintain those initiatives that are helping to improve the quality and equity of the German education. With regard to educational innovation, we see the involvement of students and centres in many voluntary actions, which reflects a commitment of the educational community to the programmes promoted, in this case, in the Council. We can talk about the reinforcement actions of the programme contracts. In this course, close to 105,000 students participated in these actions of the program contracts, in 416 centres, which enabled the recruitment of 180 teachers of reinforcement to enhance innovation, to enhance equal opportunities and also to correct those detected in the evaluations. These are also the activities of the Project Plan. Here we are involved in all the councils, it's a government project. More than 91,000 students participated in this course, of course, in everything that has to do with the work of projects and new techniques of pedagogical innovation. But the end of a course -- it's obvious -- involves starting to work on the next one. We must not forget that in the course that it enters, and as it has happened this past year, we must take into account the developments that may occur under a desirable social and political state pact for education. Obviously these news may imply that it has to adapt to new circumstances. If that is the case, we will do so, complying with the current legal framework and with loyalty, but without renouncing — I insist, without renouncing — boosting our own educational model, the own and defined educational model that is working in our community with more than remarkable success. Because, as I showed last March in this House, the educational policies we want to implement seek to strengthen the good results achieved, and they will be addressed to the entire educational community but also to meet the need for responsible and well-organized use of facilities and educational services. There are many measures and various areas in which we must continue to work, but, as you know, in the next course 2017-2018 we have already begun to take steps, we have already presented a new impetus to the multilingual model, we are working on a new strategy of digital and technological education in Galicia, we are working on the improvement of coexistence in the classrooms and, of course, on strengthening — with a new strategy — of Vocational Training in Galicia. We are talking about a new impetus to the multilingual model to extend it to the whole educational system, both in Children's Education, from 3 to 6, as well as in the field of Bachelorship or Vocational Training. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of June, the Council of the Union approved the new Greek foreign language strategy 2020, known as Edulingüe, which seeks to give a new quantitative and qualitative boost to the multilingual model. The Official Journal of Galicia has already published resolutions regulating the Bachelorate of Excellence in languages, known as Pluribach, as the extension of multilingual education to Child Education, known as Plurifantil. Therefore, the call is open so that publicly funded centres can request their incorporation into the program in the next course 2017-2018. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we are fulfilling a political commitment to legislation and also to a parliamentary agreement of last January — by the People's Party and also to the Socialists of Galicia — that is to say. Another step in improving teaching where we're working towards the next course is the definition of a new digital and technological teaching strategy in Galicia. That's why we want a real integration of ICTs into the education process. It is based on a set of aspects: the first is the provision of adequate infrastructure and connectivity; the second, the generation of uses and digital content; the third, the introduction of robotics at different educational levels as support for learning; and the fourth, the promotion of scientific and technological competences in Galicia, those known as STEM. As you know, Junta signed an agreement last year to promote the Connected Schools project. Under the execution of Amtega, its goal is to increase the percentage of public primary and secondary centers with Internet access of more than 100 megas. Now we're talking about the fact that this connectivity rate is about 40%, the goal is to reach 100% of public centers with a connectivity of 100 megas. Also in the past May, the Board of Trustees authorized Amtega to buy new computers to extend digital education to a top of 10,000 students for the next 2017-2018 course. As a matter of fact, we want the student in Galicia also to expand his mathematical, scientific, technological and programming skills from the introduction of robotics to different levels of education. Already last year, the high school and grading of kits were provided in the field of robotics in order to perform jobs in this field. Specific subjects were also launched — ESO programming, robotics at LAC — with a remarkable acceptance by educational centres. And in this course, in 2017-2018, the call is already being launched so that a maximum of 120 primary educational centers can also be equipped with robotic kits to support and promote the development of learning based on these new technologies, which are very well-viewed by both schools and teachers and students. To all of this, obviously, you have to add teacher training programs and you have to add the curriculum content design, launching specific lines of work to provide the educational system with curricular content that can support the entire process of digital learning. Besides, and after the success of the first edition, we also launched a new call to launch the science clubs; science clubs that started experimentally last year. We intend to extend this innovation programme to a total of 30 centres in this course to progressively move towards a greater number in all educational fields. The aim of these two initiatives, which are framed, as I said, in the future Welsh Strategy for Digital Education 2020, is to promote STEM vocations, ensure equal opportunities and enable teaching that opens more doors to our student. So, we're also working towards the next course to improve living in the classrooms. We will follow and continue to develop and consolidate the measures grouped into the Welsh School Living Strategy — known as Educonvives — 2015-2020. And in this area, we have always said, unfortunately, zero risk of harassment or any problem of coexistence does not exist. But Galicia has been endowed in this area with plans for living together at the level of centres and different protocols in many areas—transsexuality, fighting harassment and cyber-acoustics, TDH, autism, home care—to try to channel and minimize the possible risks that always exist. Because an educational system cannot be considered complete or successful unless it is inclusive, so we will continue to deepen our attention to diversity and the development of protocols and the promotion of flexible itineraries for students with special educational needs. We work with the expectation that in the coming weeks we can convene the Galician Conseil of Convivencia, both to balance progress in the development of Educonves and also to analyze, launch and encourage new lines of action associated to promote good coexistence in the classrooms as a reference to a quality and equitable education system. And finally, I want to talk about another important line of work, the reinforcement of Vocational Training, FP, Galicia. We want this to be useful for students, that it is useful for Galician society, that it is useful for productive systems, that it has a proper offer to meet the demands of the world of work, that it is possible to keep those students with the most difficulty of learning in the education system, that it enables better connectivity to the business world through dual vocational training and, ultimately, that it provides greater employability and greater promotion of the culture of entrepreneurship, which is fundamental to giving opportunities to our young people. As you know, today the Galego Council of FP is going to be held, in which the offer will be presented for the next course, which will respond again to the challenge of adapting to the demands and needs of Galicia's socio-productive reality. And I'm done. I believe that the balance and the lines of work that are already under way allow us to be optimistic, or at least positive, about the current and future situation of the Greek education system. A year ago in this House I appealed to the credibility, credibility of this council, supported by three elements: realism, responsibility and results; realism in its proposals for teaching, responsibility in the management and execution of measures and results, results as evidenced by the drop in school dropout, the PISA Report, etc. Today I also wanted to take stock in this House of a specific education policy for Galicia where credibility is added to three other "c": the "c" of commitment, the "c" of trust and the "c" of collaboration; commitment to the renewed commitment to a model of self-respecting legality, which bets on languages, which bets on digital education and vocational training; confidence on the basis of the established certainty of years demonstrating the ability to do what is said and to achieve results; and collaboration with teachers, management teams, families and students, but also with other institutions, and we would also like you to leave that attitude of St. Thomas apart. Because, no doubt, we can disagree with the model, which is healthy it is, but one cannot question the important effort Galicia and its educational community are making for a sustainable, quality and equitable teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u22	Thank you very much, Counselor. On behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u23	Good morning, everyone. Great meeting, Mr. Rodríguez. I loved it — especially in the first part of the intervention, and it again highlighted it now at the end, in that final embodiment — that I had come to oppose the opposition. And we also appreciate the Biblical references to St Thomas. What happens is that at BNG we are as more materialistic, we have little faith, we are more likely to believe in what it is capable of making human beings to transform their own reality through work as a molding fire of all things. But please, I say, those references to St Thomas and those Biblical references. Just so I don't forget — because I didn't bring it as I structured my intervention — you were talking about the public offer of employment, legal stability, legal security, the good and wonderful things going on, and there are many people waiting for the courts to be distributed and where they're going to be able to examine their specialty. We had to wait long enough to know the lists of people admitted and excluded, we hoped that, by the 24th -- which is around the corner -- they could also give them that information so that they could organize their own lives. You were talking about your intervention here, your appearance on your own request, responding to a desire to express or formulate those questions that have been made and also to make a reflection on how things went through this academic course after they had finished. I was quite surprised when we saw the contents of his appearance, and, by reviewing all the appearances of the previous legislation, never anyone who took responsibility for teaching in the Greek Government had come to speak and evaluate the academic course once it was finished — always had done before at the beginning of the academic course or to address specific programs— which is good because it gives us an opportunity to reflect. We'll make you a little more critical so you can fix possible errors, if there are, and you've detected them. We've detected to them something that I'm going to report now. We agree that one of the fundamental issues that marked this academic course was precisely the paralysis of LOMCE by the Spanish Parliament, since there was a game of the majority in the Spanish courts that was not very beneficial to the People's Party. But in spite of that and the promises that the law was going to be repealed — as it claims, since the bill itself was known, the educational community — still continues to be effective, still applying itself. So from here we reiterate the will of the Galician Nationalist Block to immediately withdraw one of the most harmful laws for the teaching of Greek that we have had in recent years. And I'm saying he's paralyzed but absolutely vigilant. You mentioned the revals. They finally ran out of academic value because it paralyzed LOMCE and because it had to go back, because of that game of the majority, the People's Party, not because they wanted some of them to have no academic value. If you want to know — we always insist — what is the situation in which public education is found, listen to the professor through trade union organizations, listen to the ANPA, through the entities that represent them, and the student organisations, who are putting on the table many and various issues that do not come out of these evaluations — that we define as revalids and that finally have no academic value — that are not expressed in these tests. Trusting a little in relation to what you were saying about a reflection for the future on public education that we want for our country, we believe that one of the fundamental issues, also in the wake of that political and social debate that was opened in the Spanish Courts for that future and hypothetical pact for education, is that Galicia — and beyond that is not a novelty, we have already said it on more occasions — what needs is an own legislation. You brought as a forceful idea throughout your speech that idea of your own educational model. We believe that this model of education itself, in any case, must be governed or regulated by its own own legislation, which collects all the competences that this country has in educational matters and which recognises it, in addition to the current legal framework; and that somehow it must also provide stability for our educational system, shielding the political decision-making capacity that today already has the Joint Committee of Galicia to deploy, design, plot, in some way, a teaching truly inserted into our linguistic reality, into our cultural reality, socio-economic, and, of course, to take into account our territorial reality. You haven't spoken in any way about your first intervention on rural education, about the care so necessary that you need the populations and the localities of the interior and the high mountain of our country in order to be able to guarantee them a basic service, such as school, with due guarantees. We need to rethink, for example — we have said it on more than one occasion — the minimum necessary to keep a school alive, as they have done, in addition to other territories, put on a case by case Asturias or Lion; a Greek teaching in the Greek language and quality that collects and thus reflects that own educational law. But to have that quality teaching, of which you also talked, surprises us, in some way too, that no reference had been made to the teacher and the conditions in which the teacher himself works. We believe that it is urgent to reduce the ratios of students by class, precisely as a central element to develop many of the measures that you have spoken about and that I will now mention immediately; to provide the centres of less students by class and, at the same time, by giving the higher teacher back to that teaching body the working and salary conditions that they have lost during the years of the economic crisis and which are still pending to recover. A more inclusive teaching, than you were talking about, with greater guarantees for those people, for those students, who have specific needs of attention, also requires a smaller number of students per class, to prevent and combat harassment, to improve the quality of education, to give more and better attention to the student, and more personalized attention. The thing about it is there. You talked about Educonvive, about the protocols that are being signed, and we believe that they're very good about paper, but in order to actually and effectively execute them in the classrooms, what we need is to reduce the ratios. It's impossible to pay special attention, detailed attention, to the situation of students living in schools if we have classes, for example, with 30 students. We also need more human resources — I insist — and that teachers can devote themselves to the tasks entrusted to them and their profession, which is to teach and educate the future society of our country, present and future, in some way, and not invest, as they have been accumulating for quite a long time, lots and lots of time in bureaucratic tasks. And for that, it takes money, economic resources. I'll tell you in multilingual: cash. We need economic funds to be able to support this public education in our country. And you went over and didn't even mention one of the political decisions that you've adopted from your advice that from our point of view will bring serious prejudices also to the whole of public education in this country, as it was mortgaged those more than 1,500 million euros to start private education in concert. He didn't even mention it. It is a budgetary commitment from 2017 to 2023 to shield concerts with the public and, above all, with those centres that discriminate against students by sex. We defend to override that order, progressively suppress the concerts and start with the centres that segregate by sex, and they decided to vote against it. I don't have much time left. You have unlimited time, we don't. So I quickly move on to the Edulingue strategy. They've just increased 70 million -- I say memory, I don't know if it's exactly 70 million -- to that program, to that plan of empowering foreign languages in teaching our country. In total, since 2010 — making a revision to the hemerotheque — there are 171 million euros, with a view to that year 2020. You know what our opinion is about the model of foreign language empowerment developed by the People's Party. We do not agree with the development of a multilingual, multilingual model of knowledge-strengthening of other languages in our country, not only from back to back in our own language, but by remaining spaces of use in the language of this country. We believe you can bet on a multilingual teaching, or multilingual, without denying yourself. We'd like to know if you've done some sort of evaluation of the results achieved in recent years and what these results were, and the level of competition, not only linguistics, in the foreign languages that reaches the student, but also what level of academic competences in those subjects that are given in a language that is not Greek or, in its fault, Spanish, which has also quite protected its presence in public education. And just because I don't have more than twenty-two seconds left, if we'd like to make a reference — than you didn't speak, but we had the opportunity to comment on it in the presence of the Secretary General of Linguistic Policy in the Education Committee — to the Peace Andrade Act. We believe that in that effort to empower foreign languages, Portuguese should have, as a language that has a law for its empowerment in our country, a protected space. We asked him and he didn't answer us, and now I ask you what part of that budget for multilingualism is destined for the empowerment of the Portuguese language to develop the Peace Andrade Law, which is now relegated to the volunteerism of teachers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u25	Yes, I'm going to finish. We believe, in that sense, that it is necessary to convene squares for Portuguese teachers in the oppositions — there is no such call — providing them with stability through the creation of departments, ensuring that bilingual sections are guaranteed — worth redundancy — the language when the person holding a low race...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u27	...—it's over—and, above all, start to consider the law and all that it collects that it has not strictly to do with its own teaching. In the replica shift I'll continue, because we've got the time charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u29	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, allow me, as Mrs Rodil has already done, to recognize the fact that you are coming to the end of the course to make an account before Parliament of the activity of the Greek education system. It's good news and good practice, of course. Look, I don't identify with that dynamic that you said the Greek system is catastrophic. You know I never refer to Galicia's educational system as a catastrophe, because I know it's not. Even so, his appearance, or the first part of his appearance, left some truly remarkable statement. First of all, it now turns out that the final evaluation of secondary education has no value for the holder is due to an initiative of the Government Education Council of Galicia. Well, if that's the case, it's the first news we have. Until a few months ago, you argued that no change was necessary. It would be good if the next turn, if the relevant estimate, made it clear to us that the People's Party must step down to oppose it, whether the October or November or the June 2017 month. In this regard, you urged opposition groups to make an act of contrition. From here I invite both In Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block to agree with, with the participation of Mrs. Ángeles Acuña, who will surely lead us to good degrees, and make a sacramental self to show our act of contrition. And if you don't consider it enough, we make a car of faith, and you burn us to the opposition in a fire; if you want, in Parliament, or any other prominent place in this autonomous community. Look, you also said that the public job offer was due to legal security. This People's Party to which you represent said that it was necessary to have State budgets, and that, without State budgets, the public job offer could not be made. Of course, there are no budgets in the state and there are public employment offers, as we indicated to you by all the opposition groups. So, and since we're in ecclesiastical dynamics, you're almost gonna let me invite you to do a conscientious examination. If you want, the pain of sin would be good too. You left a truly remarkable phrase for history. He said, "Progressing in equity is a waste of means." Look, if you wrote it, it's too bad!; but if they wrote it to him, I would tell whoever wrote it to him that, please, he was more careful with what he wrote to him. Because if we move forward in fairness is to waste the means, we're going wrong. Look, I understand perfectly well that in this accounting appearance you highlight the positive aspects — that there are, as I said, of your management, of the management of the Education Council. But you will also understand that it is the role of opposition to manifest those dysfunctions that could have produced throughout this course. And, look, you're going to let me tell you that I'm a little — or a lot — inefficient. If all the experimentation he referred to with the Bachelor's and Child Education plan leaves it for the last twenty days of June, so that the centers present the requests for inclusion in those experimental projects — between 9 and 30 days of this month, i.e. twenty-one days, Sundays included — frankly, one of two, or it's a last-minute event — which I think is not — or the Council does not work with proper efficiency. Because, as far as I know, this council is the same as before the 2016 autonomous elections. So I wonder -- we're wondering -- how a project of this size may not be prepared in advance. Or are there any centres encouraged to celebrate the success of this project in September? Do you really believe that this is the approach, to publish for twenty days a deadline for the centres to focus on these projects? Because it is no less true that in the case of robotics — and here are the comrades of the 4th opposition — when it was decided that these contents were included in Primary Education, in just a few months, a few weeks, in fact, we had, through the processing of a dossier, called lightning, the publication in the Official Journal of Galicia of 21 April, the auction for EUR 150,000 of equipment for 120 centres. So much efficiency in things and so little in others, at least a little incongruent. Nor can it be said that a councillor who concentrates 38% of the citizens' complaints works with the necessary efficiency, because otherwise there would be no such amount of complaints. I honestly don't think it's a cause for pride. And I'd also like to know what valuation makes that reality. They have improvisation, apart from inefficiencies, because it turns out they change the criterion, for example, so that the interim professor, or in anticipation of fate, can ask for support. When a parliamentary group of the opposition — which we did — took an initiative to Commission 4, Mr Fernández Gil argued that he was confident of the teacher's responsibility so that they would not include akin to those who were not qualified to impart. What's wrong? Have you lost your confidence in the teacher to limit to two the related subjects you can? Are all the opposition initiatives wrong? They vote against asking the Government to give you stable regulations, as was done at the last plenary session, but it turns out that in its normative project the provisions of the 2017 regulatory plan have four orders related to the regulations of the evaluation for teachings that you know you will not be able to regulate, because they do not have the regulations, because it is not dictated at this time. They're somehow modifying the network of centers step by step, because we're talking about bridges centers, we're talking about Porriño centers. Is there a planning to modify the network of centers step by step or is there a planning to reform the network of centers, which dates from the 1990s and adapts it to reality, which is perhaps also necessary? But do you have a plan to do that, or do they do it ad hoc, as opportunities arise? They have — and they will allow me to say it — a contempt for dialogue, frankly unnecessary in view of the parliamentary majority they count on. It's the most tense course in the faculty that you remember. And not everything is your fault, of course, because, as you have already said, there are many state regulations pending to dictate, but there is a co-responsibility because you are from the same political party that we refer to when we talk about the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport. Look, they have their parents instrumentalized. Last week they said there was an agreement with the Galeg Confederation of ANPAs of Public Centres for School Transport, and that confederation the next day had to get a lie, because there was no such agreement with them for the reorganization of school transport, and there is no such agreement. And the fact that there's no such thing is that today at ten and a half o'clock in the morning they had a meeting with Mrs. Infrastructure and Living Advisor. Look, I'm sorry to tell you, but you're going to pass on to history as the adviser who lost control of the school transport of the Autonomous Community of Galicia since 1970, which is what corresponds to the school transportation network, as you know as well as me, related to the General Education Law. Gives up the control of school transport to a foreign council, with which we'll see how it stops not only the 120 million euros that are budgeted this year for school transport, but also how for that permanent demand that there are centers that can't change schedules because they depend on bus transport companies. We will now see, when these companies form part of another macro network on which the Education Council has no competence, which will assume that for the education system. I insist: today you have virtually paralysed the education system in Galicia because of a transport strike caused by this dynamic, in which you have made an unprecedented slippage of your responsibilities has given the control of school transport to another councillor. And that's a reality. I told him before that you have an attitude towards the opposition that is not necessary, given the majority of parliament they count on, because they refuse any initiative that we bring for the mere fact that it is an initiative of the opposition. And they say that we are the disruptive elements of calm normality, which is the fruit of optimal management and use of the synergies that you are able to do. And so, frankly, we're not going to get rid of the urge, but sometimes one is asked to do a constructive opposition, when everything that does is not only approved, but it's considered that the only purpose of it is to generate noise, to crack the system and, ultimately, to make manifest realities that do not exist. Rare is the week that you — and rightly so — don't beat the teacher as a real engine of the education system, but, as Mrs Rodil has just reminded you, to see if you remember the teacher to give him back the wage and work conditions they had in previous times. We understand perfectly the need to explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u31	... if you allow me, I finish right now—and even sell the bonanzas, but we also have clear that what we just exposed is part of the educational reality of our community. So I'd like you to give us at least one of these -- we understand -- realities that we have just put in evidence before this audience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. I have to begin my intervention by gratefully acknowledging when I came on the order of the day that you again honored us with an appearance only three months after the previous one. One thought seeing the title that there would be important news that deserved this appearance. It's less bad that you started saying that you didn't come here to give yourself a car, but it's less bad that I warned you, because then I hear you and, of course, one is surprised. Look, it's been three months since his previous appearance, and I'm forced to say the same thing to him, because these three months might have been a lot of things, but one has the feeling of living permanently on the day of the marmot. A waiting compass by a councillor that only makes him wait for guidance from Madrid, and if Madrid doesn't talk, we wait here to see what happens. Total and acrytic follow-up, which the same serves to defend something or the opposite, with the public call for employment, for example — it has been commented upon here—; with the revalids; with the textbooks, which I believe that that free program of the two-party government textbooks now by sight is not so bad, it is now good — that I do not misunderstand, correcting is well, it is wise; the case is that what was not wrong was ever to have criteria, it would not be bad—. They were the first to embrace the revals and the first to say that the revals were not; more than that, it was you who prevented the revals from having academic effects. The first to greet the LOMCE with joy, and we are sure that they will also be the first to kick him final when the central government has good to liquidate what remains of the law. Anyway, Mr. Román, who I've already told you, as a government delegate in teaching, you wouldn't have a price, the problem is that you're a counselor. What is your education proposal for the country?, what is your model?, what do you think should be the lines of the future Education Law?, how can you address the education pact besides obeying what they decide in Madrid, which has already said to us here, that's very good, isn't it surprising? But does the German Government have nothing to contribute to this debate? Because it would be interesting if you had something to contribute the comment in your reply. In fact, we are at a time of debate about the education system, and you should know what your position is. Do you have to comment on what are the most relevant issues?, how do you really fight for equal opportunities?, how do you combat the loss of education services in rural?, how do you recover the rights of the teacher?, how do you manage the deficiencies in conservation and maintenance in centres?, how do you reverse almost a whole decade of cuts? Finally, nothing to comment on how to adapt the school to the challenges of our time? Because he said little, very little. Plurilingism, ICTs. All right, two labels that he loves and that he repeats constantly, but concrete data... because of the abandonment of the Greek language you said nothing, that for the first time in Galicia's history less than half the population speaks Greek, that said nothing. They don't have any responsibility. From continuous scissors to linguistic normalization, nothing, I know it must have nothing to do with it. From the severe territorial inequalities in digital education, I'm not at all at all, because you know perfectly well that access to all these computer tools that you like has a very important territorial imbalance, in addition to an important imbalance between concerted centres and public centers. They don't say anything, but they do. So it's up to us to evaluate their educational model based on facts, based on public and official data, and they're not inventions of En Marea. And let me get a pre-clearance, which you've done many times in this House, but as you've been in this House for two years, you haven't heard it yet: it's the subject of school failure. I'm sorry to have to clarify it, because I really trust the intelligence of all the honourable Members, and I know that everyone has already understood the trap of school failure, but since you weren't the same you haven't heard it yet. You're right, Counselor: school failure has decreased in Galicia. Now, has it decreased by its management? Then make it hard, because if we keep in mind that it's been ruling for two years, it's gonna be hard. And it's not that I want you to take credit, no, it's that you have to be strict and assume that if school failure is decreasing is: On the one hand, because the labour market is no longer attractive; something in which you — which we know — had no responsibility and something from which we understand that the People's Party should not suck. I don't think it will be necessary to clarify why since 2007 the labour market accelerated by the real estate bubble has ceased to be attractive to this country's youth. And secondly, because whoever does the law makes the trap, and in this case double traps, because the basic FP is one of the great traps of the education system. One of their great achievements, which for the only thing it serves, is to relieve the educational statistics, to disguise school failure as training, when they actually have nothing more to talk to the teacher to know that what they're making it is true educational ghettos of young people and girls with difficulties, who don't leave the centers, but are actually totally out of the system. If you don't agree, take advantage of your reply and bring us concrete data on the degree or out of basic FP courses, of course they'll be of great interest to all. Not only that, it would be to be grateful that once you've had your minutes of propaganda announcements, you'll take advantage of the reply to answer other specific questions, which certainly concern the educational community. And since you began quoting the Holy Thomas, for we speak, for example, of the teaching of Philosophy; it could not be more appropriate. As you know, this matter is about to disappear from 2nd bachelor's degree, reduced to an optional subject for students and students of Humanities, without weighting on most careers, which will imply that their demand continues to decline. As a university professor, do you think? He thinks it's appropriate to have students who never read Plato, Aristotle, even St Thomas, Max Weber or Karl Marx, giving in fact there are some authors who like them more than others, but the fact is that they're not reading any of these. Do you think it's appropriate? We think that Philosophy is and must be a common and truncated matter for all, because it is not a matter of Humanities, it is a matter that forms critical and responsible citizenship, knowing the basic democratic principles and its place in society. Besides, it goes beyond ideology, so you can read people everywhere. If so much fear gives people to think, as advisor they should be irreparably involved in reverting this situation, which is harmful to the education process in Galicia, as they have already done in other communities. We didn't bring any inventions here. And even as the People's Party in the Covenant for Education has advanced its intention of recovering her into a bachelor's degree. Then what are you waiting for? Don't you think of anything? Wait. We want to talk more about the revals. I've already told you that it was amazing today to hear in this House that if the revalids had no academic effects, it was thanks to this council. It's amazing to say little, because it looks like you've been leading the green marches for the recovery of public education. The case is we didn't see it, in the photographs you didn't go out, but the same thing was, uh! Honesty, Mr. Román, honesty. Everyone's theirs. You can go up here and say what you want, but we all know that if the revolutions have no academic effect today, it's because of the people who stopped them in the streets, and you weren't going to lead those protests. [[Applause]] But let's deepen on the issue of revalids. It would be interesting to know, for example, how many children and girls participated in the tests, what was the rate of absenteeism and its differentiation between public and private-concerted centers, or what were the consequences of last year's application, because we still know nothing. It is also interesting that, despite being proof without academic effects as it claims, the primary assessment decree in Article 6.2 says: "Reports of individualized evaluations of the 3rd primary and final primary education course will be taken into account." The question, therefore, is: will they be aware of it or not? Because if you don't, explain why this article is still in effect; you might have to remove it. In any case, they say that your goal is to evaluate the system. We think — and we have said it many times before — that what was intended with the revalids is precisely establishing rankings, but we are going to give you a vote of confidence. Let's get some proposals. Without making revalids, without having the results of revalids, look at some things happen to us that, if you've ever listened to us, might have been interesting: First, increase the budget to recover the budget level from at least 2008. Second, to increase the support teacher's ability to guarantee more resources to those who need it most. This is to commit to equity and not other things that you're talking about. Thirdly, reducing the hourly burden of teaching staff, to advance more personalized attention. Fourthly, reduce the student's ratios and, of course, count to the ratios the student repeater. It's a disincentive, Mr. Román; it's a disincentive that doesn't tell the repeater student to tell how many students there are in a classroom. And he has no explanation, pedagogics of course not; the only explanation he has is to make his data. Fifthly, to recover investment in attention to diversity as one of the key axes for quality public education. You know perfectly well, Mr. Román, that you are not doing, you know there are dozens of schools that denounce having fewer specialists than they need, overcrowded professors, who feel unable to meet all needs. We need more therapeutic pedagogy specialists, more hearing and language specialists, but not as a number to fatten their statistics. We need these specialists to occupy those positions and not become primary support professors. As I said before, whoever does the measure makes the trap. It should be noted that these are concrete measures, without needing to be revamped. But we want to hear about it as well as about rural education centers. As you know, every year tens of classes are closed, so many families have come in contact with En Marea to express their concern. It would be good if you were to take your turn and tell us if you had thought of any specific proposal, because we thought that we urgently needed to address a specific plan for rural education, so that we could guarantee equal opportunities for all the children and children in the country. We would also like to hear about the recovery of the teachers' labour rights, the reversal of cuts. It's about you being consistent. His speech of recovery -- I told him one day -- is bad for the reality that he lives outside. If there's recovery now, they'll give the teachers back everything they took from them. We also lack an ambitious proposal for an equal education beyond empty plans. We've said it many times before, but we're going to repeat it here as often as it takes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u35	...you can't say you're betting on an equal education while you're funded with money from all the Machist centers that segregate the student. Rectify, Mr. Román, is wise, even if it's late. I'm not afraid of your mistake, you can still do it, you can pass it, you can accept some of the measures that In Marea brings to this House and you can't vote systematically but because it's only issues of the opposition. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mr Fernández Gil has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u37	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is that it is very striking, enormously remarkable to see the intervention of the opposition every time there is a appearance, because, as you could perfectly verify, if it does not appear, they would say that we are hiding from society the policies that are being implemented, that we are acting with darkness and lack of transparency, and if it appears, there are little more to say that it is not well known to appear because it is not really necessary to appear. How do you happen to show up today if you've done it three months ago? Please! It's just that it's a question that the truth is enormously appealing. But beyond all these issues, I think we should try to make an observation from a more serious and balanced prism than did the opposition and what it usually does to the opposition. And in that sense I'm going to point out a question that I think we should highlight, because if you've been paying attention to Mr. Counsellor's intervention I think we all hear that the results of the Greek education system are positive, bearing in mind that we are developing this final course in a climate of normality and that we have these positive results, it has always been pointed out by the counselor that it is necessary to continue improving. We all understand that in education there is a road that is always about to go, it is a path that must be built permanently. And for that, it's also necessary to recognize what's right. Because you often -- often not, always -- have been told that everything is wrong, that everything is dark and catastrophic, and they're unable to recognize up to objective data when something objective really does well and is okay. But -- I say -- that's a question that from this group and from the Government is used to because it's a constant and it's a point that repeats itself again and again every time the opposition talks about the measures implemented by the Government of Galicia. The truth is that in the replications of the opposition to me, Mrs. Rodil, as you have reduced Saint Thomas to the Biblical figure, the truth is that it is striking. And perhaps a little bit - relating it to what Mrs Chao was talking about from the study of Philosophy - in this case reducing to the Biblical figure probably one of the central figures of European thought, because she was able to transfer Aristotle's thinking to the Middle Ages, like Thomas de Aquinas, reducing it to a purely biblical quote is at least appealing. And I think that Saint Thomas of Aquinas is a much deeper figure than a unique and exclusively biblical figure. And in that sense, he drew my attention to that reference that you made to Bible quotations by speaking of St. Thomas. The truth is that when you came up here and, of course, spoke about those issues that repeat over and over every time you referred to the education system in Galicia, you forgot to comment on many of the issues that the counsellor pointed out, and which, in the end, was what you were here for, because to realize how this school course was developing. Obviously normality, I know it's a concept that you may not like, but ultimately the action of a government must be characterized, firstly, by being predictable, not generating uncertainties, and because the lives of citizens develop normally. That's an act of intelligent government. But no, of course, you don't like it. Why? Because normality and predictability, among other things, bring no conflict. And you are more interested in the existence of conflicts, because the existence of conflict is the one that sustains your speech. You, of course, have not come to appreciate all the cross-cutting measures that have been mentioned in the intervention of the Counsellor, such as improvements in educational innovation, the reinforcement of autonomy in the centres, the improvement of infrastructure and equipment, because they talk over and over again about budget cuts. But when you put resources on the table to improve the reality of the centers through new equipment, through the improvement of infrastructure and, ultimately, through the improvement of everyday life in the Greek educational centers, that makes no reference. No, it's more comfortable for an opposition speech to talk about budget cuts and not about investor efforts to improve reality and everyday life in Galician centers. But they didn't make too many references to all the measures taken to improve attention to diversity, to promote coexistence and equity. Finally, the efforts made by the Council and the efforts made by the educational community as well as by the educational community to improve day by day and to bring those results that are above the table and that offer us all the official data, both early school dropout and Pisa's own report, because this seems to you to be not interested, just look at the level of quality of the education system depending on the capacity you can have to generate conflict around that system. And, therefore, the objective realities that tell us that things are working normally we try to avoid them into this chaotic and catastrophic speech continue to encourage a reality that does not correspond to the facts. By the way, a classical definition of truth as correspondence that can also be found to St Thomas is ultimately that, that truth is the correspondence or correlation of what is said with the facts. So it's fundamental that we don't lose sight of reality, that we don't lose sight of the facts in order to be able to build our theoretical discourses later. Because that, of course, will cause our speech to connect with citizenship, as it has been demonstrated on numerous occasions that connects with citizenship the discourse made by the People's Party. And this is not for a reason of divine connection, but for a mere reason that the speech made by the People's Party Parliamentary Group is a speech connected with reality and facts. And that's why, therefore, he also connects with citizenship. The truth is, it's very appealing. I, Mrs. Álvarez, will refer to a question you mentioned, which has drawn attention to me, because I know that you are a lover of logic — and we have spoken about it on many occasions in the committees, even in this plenary we have made references to logic. And you used a false argument when you said the counselor had pointed out that moving forward in equity was a waste. And he made a logical fallacy because he didn't put the argument into his total, he removed part of the argument to reach a conclusion that you were interested in. Because the Counsellor pointed out that there must always be an equitable advance in the hand of a quality advance, and that is the future of the education system. Because if we move forward only in quality or only in equity we have an unbalanced education system; we have to move forward in both variables, in equity and in quality. That's why I'm saying that's a phony speech. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It was so many questions that were coming out in their speeches, and that I think they deserve to be commented upon, that, in truth, often does not know a very well where to start. I find it very appealing that Mrs Chao spoke with absolute contempt of basic vocational training as "real educational ghettos" — she says textually. That is, you think in Galicia and that the education community in Galicia, that is, the possibility that many Greek boys and girls are given the opportunity to finish their studies with a degree and not be expelled from the educational system, what the Government is doing with that, which is clearly a measure in defense of equity, because there is no less equitable system than the one who expels their students out of it in a timely manner, you believe that this is creating ghettos. It's deeply appealing. It's like we're saying that for In Marea, finally, giving the boys and girls of Galicia an opportunity to train is to create ghettos. Well, listen, you go on with that speech; we, of course, will continue to look for the formula for young people and girls in Galicia to have a chance for the future and not get expelled from the education system sooner. [[Applause]] And they also talked about critical sequencing. Another question that was mentioned very much in all his speeches and almost with a certain touch of chance or play was the fact that the counsellor pointed out that somehow from Galicia he worked and contributed at the sectoral conferences to eliminate the validity of the baccalaureate assessment tests. You've come to do -- as I said before -- a game or a joke with this as indicating that you were Mr. Counselor and thanks to him that... Well, look, Mrs. Chao, you've even come to say that you haven't seen Mr. Counselor leading the green marches for teaching in defense of public education. No, of course not, that's what we left for you. Do you know what we're doing with the Popular Group? Working at sectoral conferences to take our proposals where they have to go, because, in the end, that's what changes people's reality, not hiding behind a banner, be it green or any other color. [[Applause]] Of course, you're defenders of hiding behind banners, we're defenders of working from institutions. [[Applause]] That's why society wants us in institutions and you want us behind banners. That's the reality! [[Applause]] And, finally, I believe that — to be finished — Mr Counsellor, the truth is that we must recognize the effort that has been made since the Council. I also want to recognize the fact that you came here today to talk about this course balance and this course end; to recognize the work that is done from the Counsellor and Animal — because I think this is fundamental, too, and we all have to be participants — to continue to improve the Greek education system. Because, as you well said, even though the results and data are good we must not conform, we must not fall into conformity, and what is always positive for an education system is to continue to improve, move forward and not be stopped. So we thank you for your presence today and encourage you to follow this line of work, that this line of work will probably continue to bring success to the Greek education system. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. You have the possibility of replying to the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u39	All right. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that it can be legitimate to appeal or resort to a constant narrative of criticism, of argumentary, without any reliable data and without any basis of reality. You'll know! The fact is that the Council is responsible for something that is not easy, that is planning, regulation, administration of education throughout its scope — in its levels, in its degrees, in its modalities and in its specialties. And, look, for the next course, no doubt, we will continue to organize the activities of educational centres, and we will continue to do so taking into account pedagogical, demographic, geographic, resource management criteria... and we will not make arbitrary decisions, we will not make decisions without foundation, we will have to make educational decisions, planning, management, pedagogical decisions, to promote quality, to promote equity, to promote innovation, all those that are necessary to improve, because it would not be a genuine irresponsibility. And you, ladies and gentlemen, I think you should be honest, you should recognize that the Welsh educational community — not just the Government — is having a dynamic and a positive path. Do not persevere, ladies and gentlemen, in the politics of holy Thomas, do not persevere in that policy, because the truth is that something will be done well. Something we'll be doing well when many autonomous communities are interested in participating in different programs or asking for advice for different programs we're implementing. Many and many different areas: in the field of reading, in the field of vocational training, in many areas. Something we'll be doing right when it's been several years, progressively reducing school failure. Something that looks like a ballad or something. Something we'll be doing well when recent data from the Pisa report put Galicia above, far above, the Spanish average and the OECD average. And if we compare it to autonomous communities ruled on the left forever, to put those communities in the glue platoon. [[Applause]] Or something we'll be doing right when our centers and our students are getting national awards. From the educational innovation awards to educational centres, Galicia had a third. Today he is President of the Board, receiving five of ESO's fifteen national prizes and seven students who received Skills medals at the Skills Olympic level in Spain. I mean, the education system at the level of schools or students is getting awards in Spain far above the percentage that would touch us according to the student; with which, ladies, we'll be doing something right. And something we'll be doing right when we have the most inclusive and equitable educational model in Spain. And I don't say this counselor or this government, they tell you the statistics compared. [[Applause]] But, of course, if you're still with your serious speeches, it's hard for them to get out of that fear that they need to see to believe. And the oppositions — Mrs. Rodil said — on the 24th, Saturday will be done normally. You have to wait until the 24th to realize the logical and coherent posture that has always kept this council in defense of the opponents and in defense of those people who encrypt part of their lives to these opposition tests. You'll see that on the 24th day there will be tests and you'll be able to believe, as St. Thomas does. Even though you say I'm a materialistic party and they have little faith, because they really never have faith. Faith doesn't have to be religious; it can be secular faith; you practice secular faith a lot. But, look, I don't know how to tell you, it seems bad that we're coming in, and the spokesperson for the People's Party has already said so. We did not appear at the beginning of the course for a simple reason: because there was an electoral process that coincided with the start of the course practically and could not appear. We look now and in that eternal return of the Block it seems bad that we appeared, as it seemed to give the feeling that it seemed wrong to him. You're talking about your own educational model. And a model of education itself is more than making a speech, a model of education itself means having projects, programs, measures, actions and strategies. And I'm going to tell you that yes, that Galicia has, has taken it from the year 2009 to distinguish between the years 2005 and 2009 basically, which were very bad for the education system. We mobilize teaching, we give autonomy, we innovate. This leads to the fact that, as well as with the same general framework compared with other autonomous communities, Galicia is much better in results and equity. And that means there's a self-education model, a self-education model that has foundations and foundations. And, of course, see to believe, Mrs. Rodil: teacher, talk about ratios. Galicia is together with Asturias the autonomous community that has the lowest teacher/student ratio in Spain. You speak, see to believe, wage recovery. Those measures that at very difficult times adopted the People's Party were recovered, the only ones that did not recover were those that moved during the Zapatero Government. To believe it, you're talking about clippings. You should know that the accumulation of the last two budgets is an increase in education by more than 8%, around 8.5% increase in budgets. And I don't believe it anymore, because it's hard for me to believe them when they say they're not in favor of the multilingual model. And I ask them, why? Are you not in favour of giving more opportunities to young Greeks, to all young Greeks, that we have a more equitable system, that we have more competences — because if there is an evaluation — in multilingual centres in linguistic and English subjects than in the rest? Actually, I don't believe anything about the Block anymore, because I've come to hear a spokesperson from the Block, when the first plan to empower foreign languages was put in place, to say that it was to do something for the rich. And I literally say that because I was scared of a parliamentary appearance when this was said. You think with this model we're hurting the Greek. And it's not that, at least, there's no harm done to the Greek. In fact, the education system guarantees and we have the best level of knowledge and of reading and oral understanding than the English language. And you, in order to oppose it, say, let's oppose multilingualism because it goes against Greek. But, hey!, it's not directly related, it's absolutely complementary issues. And it's really hard to believe that you raised these questions, isn't it? As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, I ask the Socialist Party as a whole, not this spokesman, to maintain coherence. Many things are going on in the Socialist Party over the past few days, months and weeks. The Socialist Party had a positive line in looking for a state-level education pact, and we understand it has to be that way. In fact, there can be some act of contrition because in Spain there was a succession of organic laws in the democratic period, all of us - let us say - driven by the Socialist Party, except, obviously, the latter. And I think it might be time for us to sit down, and I hope the Socialist Party will continue to be constructive and not get involved in that frontal opposition to which one can push and that they will start to reject any kind of agreement. I think that would be good if I hadn't, and if you can influence that you can do, because I think that as a country we would be much better off if we were able to have stable master lines in this field. And, of course, you tried to move to the House when we asked that ESO's assessment not be computed for academic purposes as if it were something that was already seen. Look, we did it in September, the deal was taken in December. We proposed an educational model, we put it in our line of educational model, because we understood it was better. Fortunately, it can be done and we're happy, we don't need to go, as you said here, behind the sign. Listen: we negotiated, we managed, we moved it, we were able to find an agreement, and I think that in that sense this action was positive on our part. And you too, as the spokesman has said, I suppose you have unknowingly tried to manipulate my words. I said clearly that we have to move forward in the two variables, move forward only in quality or just in fairness is not the right thing for the educational model. If we advance only as a virtue, we generate elitism and if we move only in equity, it doesn't advance the educational model, nor does it advance society, with which it's mismanagement. But we have to move forward both, and we're doing it both: in quality and equity. Dialogue. We always want to talk to and talk to someone who wants to talk to us. We've made a lot of agreements at the sectoral table where the administration and the trade union organizations sit, a lot of agreements. In fact, we just signed an agreement where an organization went away, others made it. I think when you say this is the course of maximum tension that you remember, let's say that the sin of exaggeration had it, because I think that tensions always exist. Home!, in an educational system with 30,000 professionals, with a thousand educational centers, etc., there are always moments, but to say it was the moment of greater tension or the year of greater tension that you remember is not real, and no one believes it. In school transport, which you mentioned, and it's a question we're obviously worried about, we're working on. Look, school transportation is from Galician Union, and the Education Council retains organization and planning. Another thing is specific management, which is going to perform another specific organ, but the organization and planning are from the Education Council. I don't know if you support the strike or not, because they seem to be happy that there is this question. By the way, in the educational field, the minimum services were 100 percent. We have some data that these minimum services were not performed, apparently. But the minimum services on the part of the summoners were 100 percent maintenance of school transport. And the education system, the school transport has guaranteed maintenance, and it's a fundamental part of everything that has to do with its organization: stops, routes and schedules. There's no kind of problem, it's going to be kept as established. And new improvements will be implemented, there will be escorts on all routes; so far there have not been them, as you know. And there's also going to be places for vocational training and bachelor's degree. The only real difference there will be in school transport is that those free squares that are left on buses can be occupied by people from outside, I mean from outside the education system. But it may be the mother of a student or the grandmother of a student who accompanies his family at a particular time. I don't know how to question whether there is an efficient use of resources, or that those remaining vacant squares can be occupied by a person who lives around the student, who may be — I say — his father, his mother or his grandmother. I think that's positive, it's not only positive......is that the Socialist Party itself has pushed Tes+bus at its moment, because really for practical purposes this is going to be Tes+bus from a school point of view. [[Applause]] Another thing is management, which is not going to interfere or should never interfere, and so we expect it, which is the education system. But you are never torturing this situation to school transport, because there will be stops, routes and schedules, and the organization of school transport will continue to be at the Education Council. Another thing is hiring management, etc., that will do it another organ. But that will not in any case affect the students, and they will be strengthened as the escorts, bachelors, etc. have said, because for practical purposes — and I repeat again — the only difference is that those vacant squares — and I understand that even you will be in favour — can be used by people outside the educational system: family or people living around them. And that doesn't harm anyone and can benefit many people. With regard to In Marea, really, Madam, there are bad times... — Mrs Chao, I'm sorry —...there are bad times when we have to explain the obvious. And you have to explain the obvious and repeat it over and over again, because if not a person who doesn't know the information and listen to it and listen to me can be dubious, and that's why you have to explain the obvious. Look, in German, we're faced with the greatest knowledge of the history of young generations of Galicians and Greeks. Another thing is the use, but we are faced with the greatest knowledge that the education system brings to young Greeks. As far as the territorial imbalance in digital education is concerned, I've just told you that there's an ongoing project of schools connected so that 100 percent of public centers have at least 100 megas of connectivity; now we have 40, the horizon is to reach 100. School failure. Since 2009 it has dropped a lot, a lot, and something that we should be happy about as a society. Why? Because there's nothing more socially anti-equity than sending a kid to the street without any type of titration, because we've sent him to difficult vital itineraries. And you seem to be upset. Now I'm sure of one thing: I'm sure if school failure had gone up you'd brutally attack us, but we can't say as low as possible. It's a frankly curious question. Attention to diversity. Tell you there's no resources. There are over 4,000 professionals — PT, AL, caregivers, mentors — working in the education system. And they're not enough. But don't tell me you haven't made a remarkable effort in recent years to advance social inclusion and equity. Because I'm going to tell you one thing: we're -- and you don't say it to this council, you gave the ministry and you gave it to OECD -- the autonomous community that has a higher level of inclusion and attention to the diversity of the state as a whole -- something that we should be happy about. And the truth is, it personally hurt me, and it hurts me, to classify basic vocational training as a ghetto. I think it's a real frivolity. And I invite you and anyone who would like to accompany you to visit the educational centres where basic vocational training is put in place and ask, ask the social, family, educational realities of these students, and ask them if they are giving them opportunities to continue studying, to continue training, and to ask them what they would be doing if they weren't there. And if I asked you, I'm sure it wouldn't be so frivolous in that statement, because it's an assertion that it's harming the education system. [[Applause]] There's also a lot of frivolity when it comes to evaluation. What do they do if they're useless? That's what you're saying: what if they're useless? Well, you should know that the information you receive from the Educational Administration is of great use to you. It serves to design the programme contracts and contracts that are aimed primarily at reducing the weaknesses identified, such as school failure. And for that, we've put in place a lot of program contracts, we're strengthening those centers that demand it based on this information so we can put in education programs so that nobody's left behind. We have nearly 200 teachers who specialize in teaching reinforcement lessons based on this data. And you keep saying that education is just putting more money! Your first proposal is to put more money into the system. That's a false argument. You've been shown, all the experts say, and there's an empirical experience in Galicia, that more money isn't equal to better results, it's not equal to more equity. There were moments in the education system with more resources, if there were. Were there any more school failures at that time? Yes. Were there higher quality at those times? No, no, no, no. It's not just putting more money on the table, it's managing money with care. And that's really something that we think we're doing. And I share with you that philosophy is very good for the formation of the individual, tremendously positive for the formation of an individual, because it allows the individual to fix basic concepts, concepts such as freedom, such as respect, such as tolerance. And that's why the knowledge of philosophy is very important. We are in favour, absolutely in favour, that this knowledge permeates the whole of society, because we will have a better society, more freer, more ready, more solidarity, more tolerant and much more respectable, which, seeing some behaviors, good lacks us. Finally, the work done by the Councillory I think it's in sight. We have an own educational model that achieves results, positive results, for teaching and for the student of Greek. And we've managed well with the resources available. And I do not want to finish this speech without mentioning the innovations planned to strengthen vocational training in Galicia in the next course. As I said, today the Galego Council of FP will be held. The Council presents for the 2017-2018 course an offer of close to 30,000 squares, 29,591, in the first instance, in a total of 1,182 authorized courses and training programs. Concrete: in ordinary regimen, upper grade, middle grade and basic FP, 21,500; in modular regimen for adults, 4,400; in modular distance regimen, 2,200; in dual FP, 840; and 620 places in training programs for people with specific educational needs. We understand that this offer advances in the process of adapting to professional qualifications and adapting this offer to the needs of the Greek production system, while adjusting to the analyzed demand of previous years and to the evolution, in this case, of the labour market, which is fundamental to achieving the employability of the titles of the Welsh FP, which is, as I said, around 80%. In the 2017-2018 course the main news of the offer will be on the dual FP. Dual FP will increase by 31.6% its squares, distributed in this case in 29 cycles. And we don't do it by ourselves, we do it with some companies from the country's finest companies, like Estrella Galicia, like Index, like Repsol, Textile Lonia, Hotusa, with many companies that trust in vocational training to train their professionals. There will be 16 new dual vocational training projects. Among them, it is worth noting that, for the first time, three cycles of dual FP with double titration appear in the offer, both in the upper cycle of Cooking Directorate and in the Department of Restoration Service. And, moreover, in Galicia, the upper grade cycle of Water Treatment Networks and Stations — which up to now can only be studied in Catalonia — is offered as a novelty, in this case with Viaqua. In addition to the dual FP, the main novelty for the next course is the offer of four cycles of new creation: two in basic FP, to give opportunities to students with educational difficulties, one in maintenance of housing and one in domestic activities and cleaning of buildings; also a higher degree, in ordinary regime, of promotion of gender equality — will be the first in Galicia and will be implemented in Pontevedra; as you see, it is working for gender equality—and also the already mentioned dual FP of Networks and Water Treatment Stations. Obviously, and as is customary in these cases, the offer that is presented fluctuates from center to center and year to year. There are cycles coming in and cycles coming out so you can build each year a map that suits the demands and needs of the productive sectors. And, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that commitment and commitment to vocational training in Galicia are evident, because we are aware, as a government, of the opportunities that vocational training gives young people to be able to enter the labour market. Ultimately, our responsibility is to educate the citizens, the Greeks, tomorrow. And we do it in a double way: we do it as citizens, we have to form them in values, so that future citizens are aware of their rights, of their obligations, critical, reflective, free and respectful of others; but we also have to train them to have opportunities in the world of work, we have to have a teaching connected with society and connected to the demands of the productive sectors. And we have to guarantee in any case, and always, equal opportunities for all. In that sense, what is being done, the advances that are being made, moving forward in both quality and equity, make us think we're going in good line. We obviously don't want to go alone, we can't go alone, we have to be accompanied by the whole educational community, families, teachers, trade union organizations, ultimately, the broad spectrum that makes up this community. And among all of us, by maintaining a strategy, we can keep working and moving on with what we're most concerned about, which is training and education on our Thursdays. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u40	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Special round of clarifications. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u41	Thank you, President. I believe that those who come with a canned speech—which doesn't matter what we say because they don't come to listen to us but to themselves—are you, Counsellor and Mr. Fernández Gil. You're a university professor and I'm a journalist, and now I understand the reason for the appearance, which was to advertise and publicly introduce those new modules that are already planned for the course that comes in vocational training. [[Applause]] I think it's great. He's very good at the press release. We could also save the whole debate this morning. I may not have explained myself well enough, it is possible that I was not clear enough, but I recognized this gentleman as the first one since 2012 — which was what I said — the first one since the beginning of the previous legislation, to attend to evaluate the academic course once finished. For once we put something in value, let's all be a constant attack reaffirms to that idea that you don't even come to hear what we have to say. It looks very good to me and I think we've recognized on previous occasions that there's less failure in school, we've said publicly, we don't fall off the rings for that. You invited us at the beginning of a reflection, but it is that, in order to reflect and be able to arrive at a critical conclusion — that I understand that this is what encourages our public education too — that we will have to see what those points are that are not right or that should be improved. Mr. Fernández Gil won't come to tell you here because he's playing other roles. It is the task and control function that the forces of the opposition develop. And besides, with regard to the speech that we have made of the ratios, you will agree with me that, if we do an average and we note that we have population nuclei with a low population density, that rural always reduces the ratios, is the reason that Asturias and Galicia are the territories that less ratio of student by class have, of course. That's what I told him at the sectoral table and the trade union organizations, I told him at the School Council the organizations that represent families as well. Also, what it has to do with the teachers' rights, what we reaffirm and we defend here in our first intervention, is not an exclusive discourse of the Block, nor is it the first time they hear it, because they have already referred to it as well the trade union organizations and the ANPA itself; as well as a greater staffing of teachers, reducing the number of students per class, which is the only way to ensure that all the protocols, that all the strategies and plans that are developed for greater coexistence, for greater attention to the special needs, for better and more personalized attention of the student, can reach the good port. We always put the case of other territories and latitudes in the world, such as Finland, for example, that bet on small groups of students by class precisely to combat, prevent, bullying, harassment or cyber harassment in the classroom. In relation to the Biblical reference to the Holy Thomas of Aquinas is that, of course, Counselor, I bring a little of the collation that you said of contextualizing the references. The councillor linked the saint to the exercise of contrition, and encouraged us, in addition, to the forces of opposition to practice it. As you know, contrition is based on the limitation imposed on something or on someone, and that in that theological reminder is referred to an attitude that we have to have sinful people in the exercise of the sacrament of penance to express pain and sorrow for our sins and thus offended God. That's why I made the reference to Mr. Thomas of Aquinas and what he has to do with his Biblical reference for that exercise of contrition, for sinners we are, who asked us to. [[Applause]] And I'm, besides, a fan, I have to say it, I have to say it like this -- and to make a public striptease -- I'm a big fan, some theoretical references. I am a fan of St. Teresa of Jesus and his ecstasy, absolutely. And I'm very happy for her, in addition. In reference to what you said -- because we don't have much more time -- of the multilingual, or multilingual model, we have strongly criticized it for what it means, firstly, to equate linguistic realities that have nothing to do with each other. One third cannot equate the reality of English, the reality of Spanish and the reality of Greek. Because, then, we lowered the curtain from the chiringuito and the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy. I mean, we have an area of government aimed at normalizing the uses of the Welsh language because we understand that the socio-linguistic reality of this country's own language so the urgency and then we make decrees that equate realities of languages that have nothing to do with what their use is, their knowledge and, most importantly of all -- imaginable that in that normalization plan addressed to youth in what they are working on -- in what has to do with the social prestige of languages. [[Applause]] We — I repeat — believe that we can bet on the knowledge — and with this finished — of foreign languages — of beginning with Portuguese, of taking advantage of the similarities and the intercomprehension that exists between the Portuguese language and the Greek language for being part of the same language system, but we can bet on plurilingualism without denying it itself. It's the only thing we asked them to do. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernandez Gil, Counsellor Two, look, seriousness is not an exclusive part of the People's Party, as you have stated. [[Murmurs.]] That is a fallacy, because frankly, considering that all of us in the opposition have no capacity to be serious is an argument that is proved false in itself. There's no need for more words. [[Applause]] Look, on the other hand, you were saying that some are placed in institutions and others behind banners. Do you need to be reminded, Mr. Fernandez Gil, that the People's Party also walked behind the banners when he wasn't in the institutions? False too, false too — since we are going to make sense today. You say that the conflict is the speech of the opposition. Does the People's Party not feed on the social conflict where it doesn't rule? False too. That's enough! Look, we play our role and you play yours. And logically, they're both legitimate, because for that we were put here by citizens, in some proportion and in others. So we're going to try to respect, at least, the intelligence and common sense of all of us here and not to put that seriousness as exclusive to a certain political group. Mr. Counsellor, frankly, given the defeat — in the maritime sense — that is taking the full, I do not know whether to call him Reverend Father. Because it is also true that this would surely elevate the President of the House to the rank of high-ranking pontiff, and I think it is not the right role. So, Counselor, don't worry so much about the Socialist Party, neither Galicia nor Spain, we've managed ourselves. We don't need them, as García Márquez said, in a very long but very beautiful headline novel, talking about when in a conflict of these so common in the Caribbean Americans sent their specialists to their affairs. We already have our specialists, we don't need the evaluations or the specialists of the People's Party to solve the problems that the Socialist Party may have, and that will solve. Look, you were talking -- and that's also a fallacious argument -- that I said you had attended the course of greater crispacy. If we change words, if we change axioms, we change speech and move on another stage. I talked about the tense course in the teachers. And you know it was, because the teachers didn't know what was going to happen with the evaluations, either in primary or secondary, or much less -- and worse, maybe -- in the bachelor's degree. You know that very well, we have discussed it a lot of times during this part-session in this Parliament. And that's what I was talking about, that tension in the teaching field. I said it. You change what I said and then, obviously, we talk about something else. And with regard to school transportation, no, we're not glad that students couldn't go to education centers, a percentage that probably varies according to whether the data is given by the Council or by the organizers. That always happens. We're not glad there's a conflict. But if the school transport system worked well, and if it's so much optimization, why was it necessary to modify it? why is there this clispation within the sector? It's true that chryspation is not being created by the teaching sector. The teaching sector is a school transport user. What I told you is that it's going to happen to history — because it's going to happen to history — as the counselor who lost control of school transportation. Man, it would only be missing that it wasn't the Education Council that organized the school routes. For now! For now! We'll see! No, no, look, we'll see how the system evolves! You don't claim the ability of the infallibility they have, as it has passed a few months ago with the funding of the University of Coruña, to which you objected to having created an artificial debate on the financing of that university. They said that in no way additional funds would be given or that funding would be changed, until the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia came and told them that funding was wrong. But you, at the entrance, in your permanent speech, all that goes against what you say is an artificial debate, it's noise, it's crispation, it's feeding the citizen insurrection. And no, they can also value that at some point the things that are said inside because there is some uncertainty about the drift that can take the system changes. I told him earlier, and you know, or I should know -- no, I know perfectly well -- that one of the most important demands of the centers is that it is impossible to change schedules to make your offer more flexible depending on school transportation. Do you really think that will improve as a result of this new organization? Do you really think the Education Council will have permanent control of the transports of this autonomous community with this new model? Can you really guarantee today in this House that the Council will not lose any degree of efficiency on the organization of school transport? I honestly, if I were in your place, I wouldn't dare make that statement. But, of course, the population has placed it in the institution and, therefore, in the Council. And he put me in the lamentable role of having to come and tell the Government of Galician Unity that not everything does it good permanently. I'm very sorry, everyone has their role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u44	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u45	Mr. Fernández Gil, seriously, the counselor's saying it was him who made it that the revalids had no academic effects. Seriously yours, seriously yours, Mr. Fernández Gil, putting in our mouth things we don't say; or serious yours taking advantage of yours to ask questions to the opposition instead of the Government, which is supposed to be what you had to do. That, of course, is serious. [[Applause]] Well, I've only got five minutes and a thousand questions to ask. We have to prioritize. So, as it seems obvious that the questions we asked before didn't like him and he's in a great hurry to the counselor, because he doesn't stop looking at the clock — this is a procedure, he's come to make his announcement, which we already knew he was, that of vocational training, and he's got to walk away, if he ever takes note of some of the questions, because that's what he goes to an appearance. You talk, we ask and you answer. If you want to be serious, see if we're ever lucky and answer some of the things we ask you, because today you haven't answered anything at all. That's why he didn't like the questions about the cuts, he didn't like the questions about rural centers, nothing about the financing of macho centers, very little about the philosophy that he likes. Well, if he likes it so much, give it back to the centers, if he likes it so much. He can do it and he didn't. [[Applause]] Those questions he didn't like, those questions he didn't like, but we're going to talk about vocational training. We talked about vocational training, because it was what he liked and it was what he came to, perfect! This one we know is going to get her ready. Then, as you're about to prepare it, maybe we're lucky and answer something. You love talking about the great success of Vocational Training, perfect! It doesn't matter, as I said before, that they don't bring any data at all, that I asked them to do it before. Remember? I asked you to bring data on the completion of courses in Basic Vocational Training. He doesn't bring them because he knows they're ashamed of anyone. And we were talking about ghettos, yes, we were talking about ghettos. And did En Marea invent the theme that Vocational Training is an educational ghetto? No, it turns out you didn't invent it In Marea, it turns out we've gone to dozens of educational centers in the country, we talked to teachers and teachers of basic vocational training, and you know what they tell us? What they tell us is that they consider a punishment every time they have to teach classes in the Basic Vocational Training, that the situation in the vocational basic training classes is unsustainable, that the only thing they do is to have out there boys and girls who couldn't reach the degree in ESO, and that, from academic results, absolutely none. That's why we're talking about ghetto, because it's option B, the option people who aren't able to follow the standards that you've set. That's why I didn't invent anything in Marea. Listen, listen to the teacher, and he's the teacher who tells us it's a big failure, a big lie to cover up the school failure data. But you like it, congratulations! We agree that vocational training must be strengthened, and that we agree, we agree. The fact is, there are different reasons. As your boss, Méndez de Vigo, said on his day, they were still university students. That's why, as university students and university students were left behind, you worked hard to cut down university funding. That's why we have 1,000 less teachers at the university. We can also talk about the unceasing fall of R+D+i to universities. This may have to do with remaining university students. But let's go back to the FP. Can you give some specific information about the student who's out of place, some estimate about how many students and students the next course we're about to start will be out of place in the formative cycle they've selected and have to go to others? Have you seriously considered addressing an integral plan of vocational training in the territory that makes students have degrees of vocational training that are appropriate to the needs of their territory and that they don't have to travel to cities? Because that would be an integral plan and not an option "b" in which to empty all those students and students who weren't able to follow other systems. And I'm asking for real data, real data, and not statistical traps. Because, as they do with the ratios, I have to tell you the known case of chickens, which I'm sure you know. Imagine that it's you and me eating two chickens -- it's hard to imagine but we can make an effort. The statistics would tell us that, with two chickens and two persons, one chicken for each. But what would happen would be that you'd eat two chickens and I wouldn't. You'd be very satisfied and I'd end up hungry. For hunger is the one that has many schools in this country, hunger for resources, hunger for more teachers, hunger for adequate resources, not to be bored. Because, of course, you know that in Galicia there are 35 pupils and 6 classes. That gives an average of 20. But, Counselor, it's not the same, be serious; seriously, that one they like so much. What seems obvious, after listening to the various disqualifications to the opposition speech, is that you want to spend the time not to talk about the important. And what's important is that, on the table, we have two clearly differentiated educational models: that of elitistization with doses of charity, that of budget reductions and that of university degrees, and that of universal rights for all and for all. While you insist on degrading the public — but concealing, adorning everything with a confused speech — we will continue to defend a free, universal, secular and feminist model of education for all, a teaching that ultimately brings us closer to the society we need. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. The truth is, I keep getting out of my surprise. I suppose it's already a constant and permanent state in my vital reality since I've been here, which is to remain amazed when the opposition speaks. Because it's really to be amazed. Mrs. Rodil, if you allow me to jump from Aquinas to Freudian psychoanalysis, the subconscious betrayed her. Because, on the one hand, you came here and said that somehow you defended or valued the counselor's appearance, but at the same time, he said that, for what the counselor was saying here, he could well send a press release. Look, what we think is that this House, which is the chamber of representation of the Greeks, is the right area to take account of the activities of the Government of Galicia. I mean, by jumping Tomé from Aquinas to Freud, you betrayed the subconscious. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Álvarez, he used a false argument again. You talked a lot, a lot, about fallacies during your intervention. And he used a fallacious argument again. Look, I don't question the ability of the Socialist Party or opposition groups to be serious at all. I'll never do it, I won't question it. You know what I'm doing? What I do is ask myself why they don't exercise that ability and why they don't take seriousness to their speech. The ability has it, now it's only necessary to exercise it. [[Applause]] So one argument speaks again. And, really, I, Mrs. Chao, don't want to often enter direct references to you. Because he also has the habit — using football terms — of throwing himself in the area and asking him to piten penalti, because he's always saying that if we mess with you, we disqualify... No, look, honestly -- I told you before and you've touched on and persevered in that argument that Basic Vocational Training is an educational ghetto -- it seems to me to be a very unfortunate expression that I think I should withdraw. Because honestly I don't think students and students who are studying basic FP deserve to be treated and qualified in that way. [[Applause]] Look, you're claiming that giving people opportunities to continue their studies and that they can get a degree is to build ghettos. Of course, of course, what you want, Mrs. Chao, is to take all this student, throw him out of the educational system, take all his chances and throw him into social exclusion. That's the political model of En Marea. Because it took time to state how you just did it here today, taxfully. [[Applause]] Picking up what you said before, I'm going to ask you a question: how many would you eat all the students you want to get out of the education system by criticizing Basic Vocational Training? None, none! Why? Because they wouldn't have training, they wouldn't have opportunities, and ultimately, as I said before, they would be aimed at social exclusion. Obviously, we're talking about two antagonistic models of designing the education system. The People's Group and the Government defend a fair and inclusive educational model, and En Marea defends an educational model that leads to an important part of society's social exclusion. [[Murmurs.]] They are obviously absolutely antagonistic models. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, look, I understand that it might be awkward for you to recognize what you just said up here. Up here the Voicer of En Marea, Mrs. Chao, has just said this, that I am simply relating and putting now in the knowledge of all of us here — although we have already heard it from her—. I know that hurts, but if you really don't defend that, you don't use those arguments here. And by the way, I want to think about it, and I want to invite you to think about it. Because you, when you get up here and you get to talk about the social reality of Galicia, what you're trying to tell the citizen that everything you perceive is illusory and that issues such as advances in the education system, issues such as improvements in the education system, progress in the education system, data from the Pisa report, data on early abandonment, are purely illusory issues, are the product of illusions and nothing has to do with information that gives us senses. This reminds me of the paradoxes of Elephant Zenon. By following this argument, I finally ask them to make a reflection, to reform their point of view and to pay attention to reality, that they do not intend to tell the citizen that everything you see is the product of a mere illusion, because, if not, as happened in the Zenon paradoxes, you will forever be Aquiles pursuing the turtle. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u48	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Close this meeting the Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, this gentleman — as you suppose he affectionately says — is the truth is that he does not come out of his surprise. Because, of course, how do we listen to what you say? Do we listen to him when he says we don't care about the countryside or do we listen to him when he says that rural ratios are very good and that makes it possible for there to be a very good Galician average? I don't know what we have to listen to: either a Mrs. Rodil or another Mrs. Rodil, but both at once it's impossible. You have to clarify yourself, because, of course, as when you speak to us about Saint Thomas and speak to us about Saint Thomas of Aquinas, one was an apostle and the other was a philosopher; then, we mix and finally the conclusions are wrong. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, following the quotations -- let's say -- of this charism, I think, as St. Augustine said, which doesn't know where he's going to go any way. And to you it's worth any way not to go anywhere, because we really don't know what you're up to. They only have one claim: that they have the "galego" adjective, and the rest gives us virtually nothing of the reflection we're doing or the debate we're doing. His way is to reach Quintana nothing more, but beyond arriving to Quintana in his deeds — let us, absolutely, see him not telling us something that can — if you want — enrich the debate or consider a very coherent line. As far as Mr Álvarez has asked us, I obviously — I tell him publicly in the House — am concerned, but I am deeply concerned. And obviously I wish the Socialist Party the best, because we understand it has to be the alternative of government. Absolutely, we wish him the best. Now, we're worried when we see that there's absolutely change of fear... No, no, there are changes of fear that surprise us all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we hope that in the outcome of the social and political pact for education you will not apply your theory of "he is not in," because we would undoubtedly be harming the country; we would be harming Spain and we would be harming Galicia. I think there's a positive line of work opened and I think it shouldn't be broken. And we're all going to have to give in; the Government, the People's Party will have to give in, and the Socialist Party will have to give in. Because, really, if we don't all give in, we're not going anywhere. And as for what you said about school transportation, look, I think the situation has nothing to do with school transport. School transport, organization and planning are of the Education Council, clearly. Another thing is service-specific management, which we have to worry about less. What we have to worry about is that the hours are fulfilled, the stops are completed, the routes are completed, there are escorts, etc. That's guaranteed, absolutely guaranteed. And the only real difference there is going to be in the service is that those vacant squares can be employed by people outside the school system, which — I insist — may be the father or mother of a student, or the grandmother or a neighbor with a door; and that is something that is positive, which is absolutely logical. And that the Socialist Party at its moment pushed, with the train+bus. And it seems to us that this does no harm to anyone at all. And I believe that the situation we are having does not favor what reconciliation may be between the interests of the rural population and the educational interests. I think there's room left to be able to put in that sense a common line of work. And there's plenty of room so that those squares and public resources that invest the Greeks in school transport can also benefit people other than the educational system who live in rural areas. And with regard to what Mrs Chao, of En Marea, says, I, first of all, appreciate the explanation of parliamentary mechanisms; I thank her very much, because sometimes, listening to you, there are doubts; I am grateful that you explain the parliamentary mechanisms. But of course, what you've learned is the adjectives who adorn all their speech: "neoliberal", "exclusive", etc., etc., but then reality isn't that. And you, of course, talk about data and statistics; I give them, you don't believe them. Look, you say you dropped funding from universities. I'll give you the data. In the last funding plan, adopted with the unanimous vote of the three universities, there is an increase in university funding by more than 18% in 2020. You don't believe me, because I'm telling you, and you keep saying there's a decrease in public funding in college. What do you want me to say? [[Murmurs.]] He says there's no operating expenses. We have just had two consecutive years of increased operating expenses for educational institutions. You don't believe me. I'm telling you that the cuts — as you often say — over the past two years are no longer fit, because in the field of education the increase accumulated in the last two years is more than 8.5%. Of course, with the real data, if you don't believe us, because we can hardly agree with any kind of agreement. And, no doubt, I am neither, Mrs. Chao, so greedy to eat two chickens; I would leave you a chicken, without any kind of problem; for you are calling me greedy and they are not. And you guys have a problem, which they think we have immoral behaviors about yours, and that's not true. And from there they build their speech and they think they can get here to call a member of the People's Party little less than immoral because to some extent they eat two chickens and I don't like any. Because it's a bit wrong, because the educational policies promoted by this government since 2009 have greatly contributed to improving educational inclusion levels and levels of attention to diversity and levels of attention to students with special educational needs. And that's something you, like holy Thomas, but holy Thomas the apostle, because you don't see him, you don't see him, and then you don't believe him, but the reality is that. [[Applause]] And the reality is that we must manage, and from the scope of the Autonomous Community and the Council, we must manage the reality of a highly complex education system. And we have to do it with realism, and we have to consolidate what works well, and we have to push for new action. And the balance shown here from the past course, which is a continuation of previous courses, because I think it allows you to be optimistic, or at least it allows you to be positive. Obviously, we're also not so unconscious to think that it's all done. No, no, no, there's a lot left to do, very much. But within the gray scale, his gray is in the absolute black, and there's a lot of way to go. And after the summer, which now has a stoppage in the education system, we have to reactivate something so fundamental to the education system, both German and Spanish, which is the social and political state pact. We have to reactivate the jobs and we have to carry out all those measures that will allow Galicia to have and continue with its own and defined educational model that is working well in recent years. In any case — and it is over — I think collective reflection has to tell us that we have a good educational system. And in this good educational system, we all put our big area -- teachers, families, the unions themselves, the administration, etc. -- and it's not about autobombs, no press rounds, no false expectations or much less. It's just being conscious of reality, not constantly inventing ministries of truth or calling the photos that interest us. Because, ultimately — and fortunately — in Galicia in recent years we can be satisfied that we have been able to improve in quality and to improve in equity. And both the lines of work, both at the quality level and at the level of equity, gave us a strong education system, a healthy education system, and above all a future education system. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what worries us the most. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u50	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out in connection with the proposal to be presented by the Council of Galicia in the process of developing a new system of self-financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u51	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its spokesperson, Xoaquín Fernández Leicega, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this motion: Amendment to amend the resolution part of the motion, which will be drafted with the following contents:"The European Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:I. Once the Commission's work has been completed for the review of the system of financing the autonomous communities of common regime, with a date of completion of 10 August 2017,1. To refer to parliamentary groups, with the utmost speed, the Commission's ruling, including the particular votes, if any.2. Set your position on this diet and remix it also to groups.3. To hold an extraordinary meeting of the 3rd Commission, on the basis of Article 142 of the Parliament's Regulation, with the attendance of the expert representing Galicia in the aforementioned Commission.4. Debates of the European Parliament Defend in the review of the financing model of the autonomous communities of the common regime under way the correction of vertical imbalances and the guarantee of sufficientness, and specifically:1. To contribute to reducing the vertical imbalances aggravated in recent years, the Government of Spain must bring to the new model of autonomous financing a minimum of 10 % additional resources on those considered in the base year of the new model during its first year.2. This effort must continue to ensure the adequacy of the autonomous communities in the provision of the services they provide: to ensure that, at the end of the first five-year period of supervision, the autonomous communities of the common regime can achieve, with the resources of the model, the average proportion of the expenditure of the countries of the European Union in health, education and social policy; and that there are sufficient additional resources to cover the rest of the expenditure functions, with reference again to the countries of the European Union.3. The Autonomous Community of Galicia shall obtain at least 7 % of the additional resources introduced into the system so that it can maintain its relative weight in terms of per capita financing."]] To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u52	Good day to all of you again. Today the Galego Nationalist Block brings the debate to a motion, derived from the plea that in the past full addressed our parliamentary spokesperson, Mrs. Ana Pontón, to the councillor of Fairy. Unfortunately, just fifteen days ago, just as we saw in the debate on budgets for 2017 or in the Mr. Counsellor's own appearance for the strategic lines of his Council, we found the same attitude as the People's Party always in front of what we understand is the greatest political challenge our country has in the short term: on the one hand, indifference; on the other hand, absolute value to the central power, and the most worrying — which we are most concerned about who bears the government — that is an absolute concern for seeking points of consensus around a question that may seem very abstract but that will undoubtedly determine our ability to design the Galician future and our ability to intervene on the needs of all the Greeks and Greeks in the short and long term. However, since the BNG we have not ceased our efforts, we are still concerned about this issue and we bring it back to debate in this House. Given that if the Galician Nationalist Block hadn't been so committed, we wouldn't be able to talk about it. But, of course, since whoever rules doesn't, the BNG won't allow Galicia to be a mere viewer in the most important debate you have ahead. In contextualizing this issue, we must remember that not only do we suffer from insufficient political lines in all light to place Galicia in a good position for future challenges and to ensure the cementation of our economy and the foundation of strategic sectors, nor to ensure the equality of the Greeks and the Greeks, but also clearly insufficient to demand a fair relationship with the Spanish State. We must remember that, first, the People's Party has taken care of freezing — so to speak — a debate that we have been waiting for since 2014; it knows a lot about the People's Party's debate, but reality is stubborn and not always good for it. Secondly, we understand that we will soon end the second session of this legislation and we have not yet had a debate in depth, after the 100 days of rigour already of Mr Feijóo, on this issue in this House, which we understand that — in addition to a context in which many different groups have been put on the table — it is particularly serious, above all because we want to insist that this is not a debate of abstraction, precisely some of the issues we are talking about today in this House, as is the question of the energy policy suffered by this country, with a model of absolute squimming of our resources, embodied by an electrical system which, above all, does not recognize our surplus potential, it is foreseeable that it affects the billed way in an increase of what we pay the Greeks and the Greeks. We've also seen in these days the real financial policy and the loss of financial capacity that Galicia had. We have seen it recently with the whole process of selling the Banco Pastor and what can have an impact on our country, together with the privatization — and well — of the boxes and also the even more recent news such as the scandalous figures of the Banco de España, which confirms what the Court of Auditors said and encrypts the price that for the public era I have put all this movement of banking concentration. That, in addition to the terrible situation in which our country is in terms of the evolution of savings credit and other factors that are added, such as the fiscal policy itself, by the hand of this model of financing public services and competences, leaves us in an increasingly complicated and insufficient situation to exercise and meet the real needs of this country. So today, in addition to the need to play more elements that affect the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, we understand from the Galician Nationalist Block that we have to stop and sit around the financing model. We have already repeatedly denounced how the State's resources for this model are absolutely insufficient to finance those basic pillars of our society, such as education — since our fellow Members and honourable Members have spoken of it —, health care or basic services, and whose spending needs, in addition, nobody who has grown up in recent times of crisis and thanks to the terribly anti-social policies of the People's Party. What's going on? Here too, we see the consequences of that autonomic corset that only the nationalists question and that it is in the antipods of what we understand as social justice. While this social expenditure is shooting, we see how the spending of autonomous communities is ferretly based. Besides, in our country -- we're still debating it in the full past -- our president is more papist than the Pope and then always the pattern a little bit more, it's not gonna be that they get him out of his ears from Madrid. And in this context, we see how, in view of these irony patterns for the autonomous communities, the Central State Administration can spend on its own, absorbing in the current distribution of public resources among the administrations more than 50 per cent of it. Since the BNG we have already reported that this is certainly not our concept of solidarity and we wonder if anyone can comply with this allocation of resources that is falling into our country. Of course we don't think so. We continue to think that this vigorous financing model is deeply crossed by a strong centralism, which, in addition, does not correspond to the reality of needs. On the one hand, we sell ourselves a model of pseudo-autonomy in which we have to manage certain compartments, but on the other hand, a very questionable system prevents us from financing them as we ought and should be. In addition, we also see what are the priorities of this absolutely centralist system in recent budgets; priorities such as the Royal House or the increase in defence budgets in the face of other needs that this country has. We understand that this absolutely irrational distribution between responsibilities and resources is not made fairly and must be urgently changed. It should have been before, and the more time we lost, we lost golden opportunities to get this country forward. In addition, we want to insist that this is a fundamentally political, non-technical debate, and that this is what we have come to bring to this House. They know their lordships — because we have already stated it here — that we advocate overcoming the current state of finance and fiscal policy to determine us from Galicia, actually exercising sovereignty and not a false autonomous reality, our priorities. We want, as nationalists, to have full capacity to design our fiscal policy as well; without that own fiscal and economic policy, we cannot have public services and economic policy as we would like. We understand that with this framework Galicia will not be able to make a proper redistribution of wealth. We understand that we can't put aside elements like another model like what we stand for in an economic concert would report nearly 3,500 million euros more to our country to design a different policy. As I say, this issue that we are defending already knows that the other political groups do not share it, but today, at the end of the debate on this motion, we would like to insist on not giving a debate of figures, not giving a technical debate, but political debate, and continue to talk about this issue. That is why we understand that this motion we are presenting is perfectly acceptable for all parliamentary groups, because if they have an opportunity to read it, they will see that what we are doing is not to expose our economic and financial model to our country, it is not to expose this alternative of concert — that we will continue to defend in other debates — but rather that what we defend is that, recognizing that we have to go to a model change, regardless of whether we put greater sovereignty and other political forces on the table, put on the table other issues, because since we have already lost three years waiting to discuss this, the minimum is to comply with what is proposed in our motion, which is, firstly, that the Board of Galicia present a concrete proposal for this process before the current month. I insist: BNG will not allow Galicia to be a mere viewer; it is unacceptable at this point that we don't even have a document by the board with its priorities. And secondly, that this House, which this Parliament, elected by all the Greeks and Greeks, can debate it here. We are not afraid of that debate, we have alternatives so that Galicia can be placed in a strong position in this debate. We understand that the minimum is that we can debate it all and all in this House and reach some kind of consensus, if possible, and, if it is not, that at least this can be treated as the matter that is: a matter of silence, of fundamental transcendence to this country, in which we cannot limit ourselves to looking at what is being discussed in Madrid, but we have to talk from here, from our country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u54	...of which are our priorities and alternatives to defend it. That is why — and I am finished, Mr President — I am asking you to approve this motion, because in the end what is collected in it is what should be done by the irresponsible Government of the People's Party. So since they haven't done it before, now do it to the thread of this BNG proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u56	Good morning. I, first of all, want to thank this BNG motion, but above all, I think it is good that we can discuss the real autonomic financing system in the debate that is currently being held in Spain. Sometimes I have the feeling that the BNG Group was raising non-existent issues that did not allow us to move forward, and this is good news, and in this sense, I believe that this is something that should favour this debate in Parliament. But in these times that have passed since the beginning of the legislation up to now there have been two things that need to be taken into account and to understand clearly what our position is going to be in relation to this motion. The first one. A process of reforming the system of self-financing has been initiated. A commission has been set up with experts appointed by all autonomous communities, a dysfunctional commission by the number of members, but that — the news I have — is working relatively well, that had a period of six months, which ends in early August, and that will surely meet that deadline and produce a technical document that will allow us to open, from September onwards — I know that, when we talk about August, we all begin to worry about it — a political debate where I believe this motion of the BNG should be inserted. And in that sense, it seems good to me to have your intention, but I think you have to take it to those terms. From September onwards, with the technical document of the committee already known, we should start a parliamentary process where it makes sense that the Board of Auditors are their assessments of the points of that document in order to be able to move forward in the political debate that will take place in the last quarter of the year, using in addition the mechanisms provided for in the Rules of Procedure and which we are proposing in our amendment to this motion. And there's been a second question that needs to be taken into account, too. This second question is that if there was a parliamentary debate on this subject by means of an interpellation that I myself made with a motion that we discussed here. And as a result of this debate and that motion, we have adopted a document, which has been adopted mostly by this Parliament, which contains a number of criteria, measures, etc., that this Parliament, in most cases - and I understand that the Government of the People's Party, because it has been voted in favour of the People's Group, including its President -, it assumes. And, therefore, there is already a definite position on the work of this committee, which was justly approved by this Parliament just before those works began. It is true that there was a part — let us say — of our proposals which were not taken by Parliament, which rightly referred to the financial relations between the central State and the autonomous communities, — let us say — to the vertical imbalance between the two sides. We claimed that there was a contribution, that we were quantifying an assumed figure for the autonomous level of government, because we created that in these years justly health care, education and social services, which are the basic competences that have the autonomous level, had experienced a fall beyond other functions of the state, and that there had to be an effort by the central government to bridge that gap, that vertical imbalance with the autonomous communities. That was not assumed by the People's Group, but there have been some things since that debate, essentially the budgetary debate. Mr. Rajoy's position at the time was that there were no resources for autonomy. We then know in the budgetary debate that if there were resources for the Basque Country, which is justly the highest per capita funding level in all autonomous communities, there were resources for those who already have the most. And there were also resources for the Canary Islands, obtained by the Canadian Coalition and New Canary Islands Members. And so what I'm transferring today is, if there's resources for some autonomous communities, that there's resources for others. And, therefore, we reiterate the need to ask Mr Rajoy's Government to put some amounts on the table so that there can be equal treatment for all the autonomous communities — and therefore for citizens in Galicia — to recover levels of health, education and social services comparable to those in other territories. That's the content of our contributions. We hope there can be a transaction between our proposals and the BNG motion, and from that transaction we would vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u57	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u58	Good morning. Congratulations to the BNG for bringing this issue up to debate, because indeed that is one of the strange sensations that I have as a Member, and it is that in reality a lot of things happen that don't come into this House. Few more relevant debates are going to be held in this legislation than the self-financing model, few more relevant. Because all the resources that we are demanding in health and education, in infrastructure, have to come from there, from the model of self-financing. We have a number. To recover at least what we had before the austerics started, we need, in updated terms, 2,650 million more. The debate before the country is therefore a debate of enormous importance. In that sense, it's rare what happens. Strange that you don't know whether the People's Party is the only thing that does it is not to bring the debate to this House or whether you are directly not taking part in the formation of a decision of extraordinary relevance to the state and to Galicia. I would prefer the first option, to keep the Members and the Members of the opposition out of the debate and to do something about it. Why do I say that? Because the committee of experts is very good. Galicia also has the best expert she could choose to participate in that debate. But we all know that this is not a technical debate, that what this expert committee is going to do is mark the lines of play where agreements will be formalized. And those agreements, without any doubt, involve political decisions of enormous importance. You can't make an autonomic financing model for our country without a tax reform. You can't have an autonomous financing model that feeds us on enough resources unless there's a deep reform of the model, if there's no more fiscal sovereignty. In that sense, the feeling that I have, of course, that my group has, is that we are walking towards a decision that, if the system has to run on January 1, 2018, because it will have to be taken quickly, and that the Galician Parliament, the Galician society, remains at the brink of that fundamental debate. We, in that sense, support the BNG motion. It is not bad for us to amend the Socialist Party, because, as the parliamentary rhythms are, to suggest that we have this debate in June does not seem possible. In this debate we will provide our proposals, our ideas, which I have synthesized here in a decade, which has, like the ten commandments, a fundamental principle, and that is that we need a model that advances at the same time in more resources and tax power and that is concrete in the need to achieve greater sovereignty and fiscal autonomy for our country, to have more fiscal power so that we can increase income by acting on current tax figures or by creating new ones, in boosting our financial autonomy, in ensuring the system's adequacy with the minimum objective of recovering in 2018 the level of income prior to austerity. A tax reform that increases income and also changes the distribution of resources between the different levels of government so that income corresponds to the spending needs that have already been assumed by autonomous communities and local administrations. To review in depth the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, because it is necessary to increase both its content and the provision of distribution criteria that respect the historical participation of our country. The realization of an estimate needs the real cost of providing public services in Galicia. Combating defiscalization, especially that which is taking place on the tax figures that record wealth. Change the method and procedure of estimating revenue. And develop a consortiumed Tax Agency. This would be the decalogue that we propose as an element of that debate. But since the motion was the need for debate, we reaffirm it: this is not a debate of the expert committee, we are wasting time, it is conforming to a fundamental decision for the future of our country. That debate doesn't go through the thirst of popular sovereignty, we don't have any kind of participation and we hope that at least the People's Party, outside the House, if I'm doing something.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u59	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u60	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you, President. We certainly agree that this is an important debate and it would also be important, since the opposition has 80% of the things we are dealing with in the plenary, in every plenary session, we are delighted to debate it and even, as the Socialist Party and the Block have already put forward initiatives, it would be good to know at last, and beyond this decadeg that is, at last, a bit scarce, what the tide feels about self-financing. That's about the motion. The motion is part of a premise that is not true, and that some spokesman remembered. Part of the premise that the Union is in cross arms, and that's not true. The 2012 Conference of Presidents established a standing technical evaluation committee to analyse the implementation of the 2009 system. The Board is participating permanently in this, made allegations in the working group, gave its opinion when the Ministry published the summary document in 2014, explaining precisely what the differential cost of the Autonomous Community was in the provision of certain services. When the 2013 review was made with the liquidation of that year, Galicia made a new evaluation. The working group continued its work, a second draft was made in 2015, to which the Board again claimed, and in 2016 a final document was published which is supposed to be the basis for the reform of the newly opened system of self-financing. In fact, in January 2017 there was a Conference of Presidents in which, in addition to the committee of experts — I would like to remind you — and thanks among other things to which the President of the Union said here, who was the first to come to explain this issue, agreed at the Conference of Presidents the principles that must preside over the reform, including the "guarantee of access of citizens to public services based on their actual cost", which has now been mentioned as one of the objectives that is already not only in Galicia but in the whole of the country. And, of course, things have changed. There is an expert who is working, and who is also not only working on the commission but is a member of the panel who is making the report of the technicians and will present his report in August. So, of course, the first conclusion that we have to say is that the Union is working, that obviously the technicians will set a framework, then the political negotiations will come, among them a very important one in which there is a contradiction between what we stand for from the People's Party throughout Spain and what the nationalists are defending in some autonomous communities, which is whether the leveling applies to all public services or only those public services that they consider to be fundamental. So the first premise is false, the premise on which it is based is false. Secondly, it is not true that there is no posture in Galicia. Here they have agreed in this House — and you voted against — twenty-seven ideas for reform of the system of self-financing, which for the Government is a mandate and therefore does its own; in particular, ten basic criteria for equity and full solidarity, four instruments for improving stability, four proposals for improving fiscal autonomy, three initiatives for strengthening coordination and institutional loyalty and two conditions for maintaining the sustainability of the system. So that's Galicia's position. If we have clear objectives and the Union is working very hard and, in addition, doing so with consensus, because, indeed, this was voted on by a large majority who exceeded that of the People's Party in this House, why are they proposing this? It seems to us, at the entrance, as has already been said by the two spokesmen of the groups, in addition to that of the Block, who intervened, clearly extemporaneous. At least we'll have to wait until the technical commission's work is finished to find out exactly what the position of the board is. It doesn't make sense, as the Block proposes, to debate the position of the Board when we don't even know the technical framework, which will end in August, and do so in July. So, at least, it's extemporaneous. But it would also weaken Galicia's negotiating position. Is there any parliament, some autonomous community that has set out in detail the targets it pursues in autonomic funding? No, there's none, there's none. Why? Because it would weaken Galicia's negotiating position. And so we're not going to support a position that would weaken Galicia's negotiating position on a topic that's so important. And why do you present this? I think they present this because they're in a campaign -- which I think is going to fail -- which is that Spain is leaving us and the Union is doing nothing. In the case of self-financing, I want to remind you that this tolerance of the coupon, that you take the collection data and you see that Galicia, the year that there is liquidated data, of 2014, has entered 6,752 million Euros by the autonomic financing system, when the state has collected in Galicia for all taxes, including those transferred to the Autonomous Community, 5,400 because it is crazy. But these are official collection data, you do that of posverity: it counts one thing a thousand times, it doesn't bring a data, it doesn't bring a paper, it doesn't bring a serious report, and it thinks the rest of us are going to go through that. [[Applause]] Second. If you take the data seriously, homogenous and technically treated, you will see that the tax balance for Galicia is 6.78 % of GDP, 1,326 euros per capita of each Welshman. We're talking about more than 3,600 million euros a year that Galicia has as much as the state has to say in Galicia. If that's why you want to discount the Social Security and want to discount other issues, the balance goes down to approximately EUR 800-1000 million a year. And you're still on the subject of the coupon. The academy reports what Galicia's gross tax capacity is: 86% on average 100, and funding for the new system is 105.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u62	The data clearly refute what you say and, in addition, reinforce another idea that you also deny, which is that, for the first time in Spain's history, there is a Constitution that, in addition to guaranteeing autonomy, guarantees equity and interterritorial solidarity, which, if you succeed in breaking up with the coupon, would be completely torn apart. Obviously, the coupon would be generalized.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u63	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u64	Allow me, Mr. President, to finish. When it comes to self-financing, it's not about nations. A gentleman who has to be cared for in a hospital, let's put it on chance in Astorga and another one who has to be treated in Betanzos both need the same treatment, regardless of whether we consider Galicia to be a nation and Castile, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u65	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u66	Mr Leicea, in fact, the Socialist Party has brought a proposal on this issue to this Parliament, which we are debating. I think I made reference to the fact that the parliamentary groups had brought this matter into the collation and logically so. We, although we would disagree with the position adopted, are grateful that this debate can be given, just like many others who, thanks to the diverse work of the opposition, can be given. Another thing is that for us it's enough and that it doesn't logically exaggerate the government group that it hasn't done its own in a more fundamental way and beyond the limited corset of debate of a motion, which has only half an hour to develop. As for the amendment of the Socialist Party, we are not going to accept it, because we understand that it is assumed that this is not a political debate. We cannot just accept incorporating that amendment and accepting its political position and circumscribing the debate that this House, the German Parliament, must give to what the people of that committee of experts do, because we understand that it is to steal the capacity and duty that this House has and that it is not incompatible. In any case, we thank the will of consensus, but we believe that now is the time for political debate and government rather than the expert committee. As for Mr. Puy, you will say that they do a lot, but I neither Catholic faith nor secular faith, to resume a little the debate we had before with the advisor. You talk about a lot of documentation and so on, but I want to remind you that in 2014 the Government had to send a position to Madrid and this House doesn't know if it did, if it didn't, with what content, with a drawing, if with some political proposal, if it did. Then allow me to be skeptical. In any case, when you want to send us documentation like this, we'll do a hard job with her. The truth is that we are a little surprised, since the BNG, because the greatest criticism of the Government did not make it the spokesman of the Socialist Party, did not make it the spokesman of En Marea, I almost did not do it myself, but you, recognizing that practically the position of the Galician Union and the work of the Galician Union, the Government of the People's Party, was, and will only be those conclusions derived from the Socialist Party's motion-debate. We understand that it is important to discuss these kinds of motions, that they should be taken into account, but the truth leaves much to be desired by the active role that should have a government. And as for extemporaneousness, because you can qualify it this way, but of course, if the debate of the Greek Parliament is the debate of the committee of experts, I do not honestly know why we were chosen by the Greeks and the Greeks. And finally, as to the question of the coupon, which will not give me time to enter, it seems perfectly clear that they have no arguments on the part of the People's Party not to support this proposal, that the only thing that requires the People's Party to do its job, and then they have to take it to the debate on the quota model. In any case, we reaffirm ourselves in that. So don't worry, that by the BNG we won't be able to debate long and hard on the figures, because, far from what you think they're the only experts who have experts who know how to do mathematical calculations, because in the German nationalism, fortunately, we also have a good collection of experts and documents on this issue that we are deeply concerned about and we will do our best to bring the debate back to this House as the attitude of the People's Party continues to be denied it and to look elsewhere. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P. motion. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to polluting industrial emissions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u68	Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Socialist and Popular of Galicia have been tabled. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Losada Alvarez, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits the following amendment to this motion: Amendment to amend point 1 of the resolution of the motion, which will be drafted with the following content:"1)To develop, within one year, jointly with social agents, business confederations, trade unions and environmentalists' organization, a plan to reduce pollution which reduces levels of fluoride, mercury and perfluorocarbon emissions, carbon dioxide, greenhouse gases, sulphur dioxide, chlorine and acidifying substances, particles (PM10), carbon monoxide, non-methane volatile compounds (COVNM), methane, arseneic and chromogen, and methane oxides."Amendment of amendment You must amend point 5 of the motion's resolution, which will be drafted with the following content:"5)Presenting a bill that reflects the amendment of the Act 12/1995, of December 29, of Air Pollution Tax, which would remain:"Article 12. Tax quota1. Tax quota will be determined by the application of the following basic tax rate: Basic Euros/tm Party of Galician SocialistsFrom 0 to 100.00 tm annual 0 €From 0 to 100.00 tm annual 0 €From 100.01 to 1000.00 tm annual 180€From 1,000.01 to 3.000.00 tm annual 250€From 3.000.01 to 7.000.00 tm annual 350€From 7.000.01 to 15.000,00 tm annual 490€From 15,000.01 to 40.000,00 tm annual 620€From 40.000.01 to 80.00 rm annual €From 80.000.01 tm annual forward 1035€")]] [[(The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, through its spokesperson and the initiative of Gonzalo Trénor López, in the light of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this motion. Replacement AmendmentsYou must replace the text of the resolution with the following text:"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to include in the Galician Strategy for Climate Change and Energy Transition 2050, which is promoting through the Territorial Environment and Planning Council, a set of measures aimed at further reducing levels of industrial pollution, then promoting the production and use of renewable energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and then improving the network of atmospheric pollution control stations in Galicia."]] [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego (BNG), the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendmentProposes to add in point 1 of the resolution, after "particles" and before: "@PM 10", the following: "PM 2.5".)]] Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u69	Good morning to all of you. If anything is demonstrated by the tax balances or tax balances that are displayed, in such a case what is demonstrated is the dependence and subordination of Galicia, and therefore what we need is more sovereignty to develop ourselves. And that also applies to what we've come to talk about now. As he pointed out during the debate on the interrogation against the advisor, on the data of polluting emissions and greenhouse gases based on a study by Professor Ramón Varela Díaz, a report that is made on the basis of official data from the State Register of Industrial Pollutant Emissions and Sources, Galicia specializes in the enclave of contaminant industries. Galicia is responsible for approximately 15% of the Spanish State's emissions, when we are 5% of the wealth, when we are not yet 6% of the population. We are the first in fluoride, mercury, and perfluorocarbon emissions. We are the second to emit carbon dioxide, greenhouse gases, sulphur dioxide, chlorine and acidifying substances. We are also the third community to emit to the particle atmosphere: carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds, non-methane, arsenic and chromium. And we occupy the fourth place in emissions of nitrogen oxides and heavy metals together. In addition, evolution is increasingly occupying most of the pie; that is to say, it specializes in high-level contaminant industries. Most of these industries, not more than ten, are multinationals, enclave industries, which have been installed here to take advantage of natural resources, environmental permissiveness, or cheap electricity put at their service. Galicia emits a total of only 30 million tons of CO2; 14.2 correspond to these large industries, and 10.5 in 2015, are simply the thermal power plants of As Pontes, and Meirama. This data shows that Galicia's sad specialization in polluting industries, which, in addition, are not part of our reality or have economic traction capacity as if Galicia had developed other industries based on their potentials, such as the wood industry or the dairy industry, which would have much more capacity to generate wealth and employment. Because of its subalternity and political subordination, it was chosen by alien designs for the location of contaminant industries, other than our productive fabric, little creators of wealth and employment. It is also clear that these emissions have a huge impact on two issues: our environment and people's health. These impacts are externalized by companies, which do not bear the costs of pollution or greenhouse gas emissions, outsource costs and privatize and internalize benefits. This is a reality we don't want for our country, that we want to change and it's appropriate to change to develop towards the future with another model that benefits us a lot more. In this sense, I would like to highlight two questions of our motion. It doesn't make sense that in a country that exports 33% of the electricity produced, that 33% that almost coincides with the electrical production of the two coal-based thermal power plants, if it continues to enhance this model, when really the wealth produced by the export of this electricity does not remain in our country. So we need, for many reasons, to change this model of the energy sector. We have to work on replacing coal production with renewable energy. It is perfectly viable and is defended by most experts in this country. Any other issue that further prioritizes the production of thermal means to aggravate Galicia's role in other regions, when in other parts of the state they are announcing the closure of thermal power plants, and Galicia will be specialized in serving other regions the electrical energy produced here based on impacts. At the global level, there is no doubt about that substitution process either. Therefore, it is irresponsible not to prepare a coal replacement horizon for renewable energies, quite the opposite of what the People's Party has done in the last two legislations, which is to paralyze a sector — that of renewables — that could be creating jobs and wealth and, in addition, causing less environmental impacts. All the decisions of the People's Party in Central Government, with the complicity and silence of the Galician Union, paralyzed the wind sector and did not generate any other kind of alternatives in the renewables sector. It is clear that we need a decentralized model, in the hands of people, not the model of the development of renewables, which, as in the wind sector, for example, makes 76% of this country's electricity production in the hands of foreign companies rather than developing a model that benefits people. And we're talking about that wind energy billing every year about about 700 million euros, almost half of this country's agricultural production, and 76% goes to foreign companies. So a new model based on renewables is needed, but also based on the fact that the benefits remain in people, they remain in the country. That change is inexcusable, and there are only two ways to do it. The end of coal will either be, or by a decision of a private company that picks this country up and does not make the necessary alternative plans, or it has to be a plan of this Parliament and this Government so that when that time comes, there are alternatives, even labor, prepared in areas that may be most affected. On the other hand, there is an air pollution tax in Galicia which was created in 1995 and has been applicable since 1996. That tax has as its first objective to regulate the contaminant activity of large industries. We must conclude — and here we cannot say the opposite — that this objective is not met by the collection of this tax, which was raised in 2015 — where the polluting emissions have risen dramatically — EUR 4.5 million. This does not fulfill the function of regularity and that companies have an incentive to stop polluting. So you have to modify it to meet your goal. And if not, they come here and say they don't want to tax these big companies. That's why we propose an amendment to that environmental and atmospheric pollution tax law, to contribute to that goal. We propose a necessary plan for reducing polluting emissions. And we also propose a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, to meet those targets. Today we are far from fulfilling them, and we are also far away because greenhouse gas emissions continue to depend in a very important way on the activity of the great industry, which, on the other hand, depends on factors that are alien to popular sovereignty or national sovereignty. We cannot define what is going to be the emission of these companies that depend only on the price of coal or climatology, that the wind does not work or that the hydraulics don't work. So we have to have a plan. We also know that the Union does not have all — not much less — the powers to make this plan and that there are other administrations that have to act. That's good. But Galicia has to have a plan, even to file demands before the State Administration to have its own design, a design that benefits Galicia, and that no longer uses Galicia to produce other regions to benefit, while we here have to stop the impacts that they cause. Finally, in the calculation of the tax, we can resort to studies probably much more rigorous than I can do, but it is true that between what we are proposing and what is currently in force in the Council of Galicia, our approach is much closer to what Greek experts have said who studied the cost of externalities caused by this industry, millionaire costs that year after year assume the health budgets or budgets of the Environmental Council. Some of them want to get back with our proposal, if it's supported by all the groups. Nothing more and thank you very much. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u70	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u71	Good morning. We are, of course, on a subject of debate; a subject, of course, timely and necessary. And we would, in any case, like to open a little more focus and not just talk about industrial emissions, but about all the causes of air pollution, because there are multiple causes. This is a reality, that of air pollution, which has, of course, very negative effects. It has very negative consequences for the health of people in the form of an increase, for example, of cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, something found by the World Health Organization itself, which causes, among other things, premature deaths in a large amount. And also very negative effects for the environment and the planet by the production of greenhouse gases, which favor climate change, which is one of the major concerns, one of the major problems, of our time; of this time and the future, but already of the present. The causes of air pollution are multiple. It's not just industrial emissions, but we have to talk about polluting modes of transport, traffic around cities, power stations, fuel burning or waste burning. We will also talk about these issues today, and I suppose in future debates, because BNG has also presented various initiatives on these issues. Well, the World Health Organization on its air pollution map, with data from the years 2015 and 2016, tells us, for example, about the consequences of suspended particles, which are very much related not to industrial activity, but to traffic. It says this study, this map, which was analyzed by expert people in Wales, that more than half of the population in Galicia breathes air contaminated by small suspended particles. That's why we make an amendment, which can be considered technical, referring precisely to those particles in more harmful suspension for human health and which are essentially derived from traffic, which are these fine particles that have a size of less than 2.5 microns. It says this same study by the World Health Organization that most cities exceed the recommendations of this international body. It is also true — it must be said — that the European Union has a more permissive legislation for both large particles and fine particles. The World Health Organization sets out values that are half of those that mark the European Union itself. In any case, the data are there and are clear and powerful: 92% of the population of Galicia, 76% of the territory of Galicia, were exposed in 2015 to levels of contamination that exceed the recommendations of the World Health Organization for Human Health. This causes serious health risks not only by exposure to these particles, but also as a consequence of other gases such as ozone, nitrogen dioxide or sulphur dioxide. With regard to pollution caused by industrial activity, there are also studies, such as, for example, the derivatives of the State Register of Pollutant Emissions and Sources, which are precisely what they reveal is the negative development that our country is having — as the rapporteur of this proposal, Anton Sánchez has already reported — so that, without being an eminently industrial country, we have taken up the fourth position in these polluting emissions in 2012 to the second position in 2015. So we're at the first spots of the ranking of the most polluting territories in the state. And in the case of carbon dioxide, mainly caused by these large multinationals already referred to, we produced 15,10% of the total state. So, what highlights this reality is Galicia's role in the world economy and in the state economy, with these enclave industries, being a country providing energy and raw materials and enduring serious social and environmental costs, while most of the benefits go to the outside. We therefore believe that it is time to establish a comprehensive and comprehensive strategy on this issue, that we must act urgently, consistently, realistically and effectively. With a set of measures, not only those relating to industrial activities, but also to sustainable transport and restrictions on motor traffic in cities. There are examples of what we can note: promoting renewable energy, reducing industrial emissions, reducing fossil fuel consumption or changing waste management systems, because it makes no sense, it is a real waste, being transporting and burning waste while there are other alternatives — which are also proven to be effective — that can be put in place. So we're going to support this initiative because we're convinced that we need another economic and industrial model, self-centered, serving our country's needs, which will benefit, of course, humans, social and environmental, improving air quality, making us have less noisy, cleaner and safer cities, so that we can also fight climate change and improve quality of life and health, avoiding diseases and deaths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u72	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez. We discussed a motion by In Marea from an interpellation to the Environmental Counsellor who, after hearing it and after reading the debate, was that I would have two words: self-comprehension, on the one hand; and, of course, a lack of political ambition. There is a clear delay against what Europe's main policy lines are at the state level, and even at the level of many autonomous communities. I regretted very much that Mrs Mato, who always talks about Andalusia — or almost always, she has a certain concern for the south — had not spoken in the previous interpellation that the Energy Strategy of Andalusia 2020 has been published for almost four years and has been developed after a participatory process of economic, social, environmental agents, etc. Which, of course, mark a path. Here in Galicia, fruit, I suppose — I do not say directly — of the interpellation and motion of En Marea — or yes — the 16th day of this month, that is, 4 days ago, the Environment has bidned the work for the realization of the Welsh Strategy in the face of climate change 2050. It's true that it's more ambitious and follows the UN's proposed lines and the climate change panel itself. Welcome to this question, but, as always, it's late. I don't know if it was the fault of the three-and-a-half-year bipartisan government, but from 2009 until 2017 it's been eight years of shooting where, of course, I suppose they were aware of the importance of climate change, Trump aside and Rajoy's cousin as well. I know they're persistent, and I know they're very upset, so I quote it every time I talk about the environment. I don't know if they realize it's a mere entertainment strategy. Rajoy's cousin was that Physics Professor who in 2004... is funny, isn't it? [[Laughter]] It's funny, but yesterday all the headlines in the European press say that most of Portugal's 67 fire deaths are related to climate change itself, which is making the fire a weapon of mass destruction in southern Europe. Of course it's funny! Of course, it is superbly funny — I hope — for this professor of physics at the University of Seville. The truth is that the paulovian relief is perfect. And there are for the socialists -- if, absolutely -- three fundamental elements in relation to climate change, the polluting emissions of industries, the production of electricity -- we've all just seen in the first vote this morning as it's not true that they govern for all, they govern for those three companies that control 96% of the electricity distribution and transport itself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I want to remember again how the Government of Greece in 2009 put down what was a Bipartite strategy -- I'm sure with a lot of mistakes -- to strengthen the production of renewable energy. And like the Rajoy government, with the ineffable minister Soria — between traveling to Santo Domingo and traveling to Santo Domingo — literally paralyzed, sprayed, produced renewable energies. So this is the general framework of analysis where I suppose Mrs. Mato is moving. Of course, reading his speech makes no doubt about it. In the position of the Galician Socialist Party — in which we can probably have some differences with the author of the motion, although we are going to support it — we have a very clear thing. First, industrial production is strategic for any modern economic space; strategic and irrevocable. And we're also aware that environmental conditions and environmental requirements have to be on the technological border. I mean, it's not possible, or there's no reason, or there's no reason for it, so that a factory, whatever, in Galicia is in a lower environmental standard than in Finland, Iceland, Canada or any of the most advanced countries. I want to look at those countries. I also understand that legitimately on the Spanish right would like to look more at Morocco, Turkey or Thailand when it comes to wage controls, but I don't want to look there. And, of course, the creation of wealth and employment — which is fundamental — cannot be an alibi to increase the profit and loss accounts. So in this position — which I want to be more or less clear — is where we would move. Then — man! — it is true, Mr Sánchez, that the enclave economy is careful, because whoever described it — Mr Cardoso — is already in social democracy. I mean, see if he'll get rid of the flock. He was fine in the 1960s, I think the Greek economy is not an enclave economy, at all, but after the class struggle this morning, welcome to social democratic conceptualization. [[Applause]] And then only the last question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u75	It's over, Mr. President. I also have the urge to go to the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 — absolutely advertised by land, sea and air — and in all this, when it was thought that the United Nations and the European Union — lastly, Mr. Member, I see that he is hungry — were absolutely demanding the governments the Strategy against Climate Change, in all this it does not appear even once. I think you should check it out. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u76	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, today I am not going to talk about what we agreed to, but about what we might have different positions. More than anything because you present a motion with six points — or seven, I don't remember — and if you had touched every one of the things we can agree on, you couldn't talk about the really important thing of your initiative. See, the best industrial emission reduction plan is the implementation of the Industrial Emissions Directive, since it provides that all installations included in its scope should provide for and reduce pollution, applying the best available techniques, making efficient use of energy, preventing and managing waste and measures to prevent accidents and also limit its consequences. With regard to replacing coal-based electricity with renewable energy, I want to tell you that the objective of the Member States of the European Union is to achieve 20 per cent of the European Union's final energy consumption from renewable sources. In Galicia this percentage has already been 17.6% in 2015, which shows the commitment of our community to this goal. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy Transition that the Galician Union is developing addresses the action plans necessary for the transition to a low-carbon economy. I would like to thank you, Your Honor, for it is easy to hide between the proposals for plans and more plans that you make which is the real intention of your group. But that's not what you do, and clearly says that what you want is to close the thermal power stations of the Bridges and Meirama. These locks are on now, but next week you'll be back with Reganosa's closure, and the next one will be torpedoing the development of new sectors like the marine wind. Closing policy is not new in your group. You ask here for the closure of the Roses because it was a base of NATO. You call here for the closure of Citroën by preventing its enlargement; and the closure of Sogama. They also asked for the closure of Ence, and they even wanted there to be a boycott for Indidex. With which, ladies and gentlemen, the policy of closure is its own, it's in the DNA of its organization. And you also have a very hypocritical speech. They demand, on the one hand, the development of renewables, but every time there is a project, what a chance!, a platform of opposition to this renewable energy project arises. And usually these platforms are either led or there are members of their organization, of their confluence. Your Honor, with their closures we would no longer be a referencer in the production of electricity to begin to depend on the supply of other autonomous communities or other countries. The closure of Meirama and The Bridges is supposed to destroy employment, not only of the people who work directly in those power stations, or indirectly with the thermal power stations, but of their entire area of influence. You forget, Your Honor, the investments made in these facilities in recent years to reduce the emissions of polluting agents; nearly 400 million euros between plants to adapt technically. And you also forget the most recent commitments to adapting to the Industrial Emissions Directive that companies have shown for both installations. For example, in the case of the Bridges, it will involve an investment of 280 million euros, which will manage, on the one hand, to reduce by 80% the emissions of sulphur dioxide and 60% the emissions of nitrogen oxide, also prolonging useful life and hence employment, and ensuring employment in the area for another 20 years. But apart from, Your Honor, from the closures, what concrete measures do you think or are you proposing your group? Do you really believe that it would be enough with the new energy facilities to replenish all those workers who lose their jobs? Who's going to promote these projects? That capital that you then say is a colonizing capital? Where, gentlemen, are you against any project? They are against the marine wind, wind in the mountains; wind in the back, neither are the minicentres, nor the hydroelectric, nor are they. You're absolutely against any renewable energy installation. [[Applause]] Your Honor, have you asked the workers of these plants if they want to be placed in other industries? Did you ask the municipalities concerned if they agreed? Do you count, Your Honor, with the support of the PSdeG, who rules in the Town Councils of Cerceda and The Bridges? You were talking about my group's self-comprehensiveness, Mr. Losada, but you've gone over your fingertips on this subject. He could stand up, he could defend his mayors and the municipalities where his mayors rule. But deliberately he didn't, perhaps because he doesn't like any of the mayors who seem to be in the kinnies to lead his party. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, please answer in your reply to these questions and don't answer me with the text that you reproduce in your own initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u79	...saying that they intend to replace these facilities with alternatives for industrial development in the renewables sector. A whole process of industrial conversion that will affect two comarcas in a very important way, and not just two comarcas, but our entire community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u81	...summated on one line; an industrial conversion process that you reduce to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u82	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u84	Thank you. Time's up. Author group of the motion, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u85	I will try to be quick to answer you — if you give me time, Mr Trenor, because I think it is enriching that you answer. First, of course, it's only for industry. The idea of the motion is to focus it on the big industry, which is one of the major responsible for the emission of pollution and greenhouse gases and which is out of focus. There are measures, of course, for transport and urban waste, but they will be the object of other types of initiatives, we would like to focus it here. Mr. Losada, a little bit of a joke. I don't know if you will be the ones who have abandoned social democracy, but in that case I also quoted the great Greek Social Democratic as Joseph Manuel Beiras, who has never abandoned social democracy itself. In that case, come from whoever comes, if the arguments are accurate, I'll have no problem assuming them. Mr. Trenor... of course, Mr. Trenor, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Trénor, with no "e" accent. Mr. Trénor, of course we want a model change, of course! It's only true. You are defending a third-world model for this country, which means we have 15% of polluting emissions and 5% of GDP of wealth. That's what leads us to your model, to mass migration, to install industries that condition our economy and, on the other hand, they're not able to pull on the social fabric in which they are inserted. Because they're only here to take advantage of our cheap electricity, our lignite, leave the impacts here and take the benefits to other latitudes. That's the model you want. I don't want to exaggerate, man! but we could talk about African economies, etc. I don't want to exaggerate because we've lost the nuances, which is not true, but I want a model change, of course! And of course, I want a plan to replace coal with renewables, where much more wealth, much more employment and less impact can be created. Of course we want that model change! Why don't you tell me I don't put the thermal lock? First, we don't ask for the closure of the thermals because, thanks to the shameful privatization you've made of Endesa, it's not a public decision anymore. You privatized the company, that's why they had the box full, but bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. They sold a company that was supersedable to their friends. Once again, your friends then put us on the board of directors, and then that's a decision of the company, of the private company. What is the responsibility of a responsible government? What is it? Prepare the country for an end to thermal production based on coal. Of course you do! And of course we will oppose a model of development of renewables where the benefit leads to it by large companies. Of course you do! I told you, if 76% of the wind production is in the hands of foreign companies, that's not our model. Of course you can develop another model in people's hands, in the hands of citizenship. Of course, you can make a decentralised wind production model, where people can benefit from production, and at least that the impacts that cause also bring about a corresponding benefit. Of course, we want a different model in a country that supports 15% of polluting emissions -- not only this country, we also send out pollution -- and it has 5% of its wealth. Platforms against renewables. Does the biggest platform against renewables know what it's called, Mr. Trénor? Soria Platform, Soria Platform Minister. The decree of self-consumption tax, the decree of self-consumption, which hindered the possibility of developing a sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u86	On the amendments, on the amendments, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u87	...with a huge future. That's the platform that has paralyzed the renewables sector in this country, the People's Party, and you guys. You little fellas will not offend your friends of Endesa and Natural Gas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u88	About the amendments, which we're going through a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u89	We accept amendments from the BNG and the Socialist Party because they improve our proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u90	What about the PP?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u91	Not the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u92	Okay, okay. Bad luck! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Union of Galicia in relation to the generational importance in the business of the self-employed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u93	We are now debating the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez. There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. To formulate the motion, Mr. Losada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. We will defend the motion put forward by the Socialist Group on the basis of the interpellation of the full past, an interpellation in which counsellor Francisco Conde, Employment, Economics and Industry, once again illustrated us with his usual rigour. And then he did an exercise -- I said it at that time and I kept it -- then it's enough to read it calmly and contrast the measures with that subprime mechanism of indeed to the multiple games and lines of help that exist both in the Galician Innovation Agency and in the Igape, from its foundation in both cases, to change their names and become new policies that do not actually change anything. I don't know if He's the right cat, but the truth is, unfortunately, they don't change. The cathopper means the novel, eh! It wasn't an insult. There are three general elements which, in the words of President Feijóo in the investment debate, placed this investment. The first, the demographic problem. We saw not only that it was in the speeches, but that it is also in the structure chart of the Galician Union. There is an obvious problem of aging, of which, of course, this Member will not blame Mr Feijóo, of course. There's a problem of polarization and concentration of the very serious population. And there's a falling problem of birth. So this is the first question. The second question has also been said this way, in solemn terms, was the legislating of rural areas. Indeed, we have seen as in the case of those exclusively economical criteria — which I will not be able to say that it is not necessary to take these economic variables into account, which cannot only be applied economic variables to issues that go beyond numbers — we have seen an ongoing mechanism for cutting public services, both on health and educational issues... in the end, beyond that large amount and maintained by squares in children's schools and in residences of the third age with which the advisor and now the adviser illustrate us in every plenary which is opened in all the municipalities of Galicia but which, in fact, did not just appear. So rural as a central element of policies. And the third is the myth of Business Administration -- this time I'm not going to say that of Soto del Real -- of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship, indeed, as a theoretical discourse is very good, but when we move on to the real world of the medium size of companies, of the training level of managers, of the effort in the formation of human capital, both on issues of vocational training and we no longer say on subjects of R & D+i, we find ourselves in an extremely weak relative position, as much as we manage advertising and propaganda on chess. These three axes perfectly address the problems of small self-employed people in this autonomous community and, in general, in Spain as a whole. There are a number of very defined sociodemographic work characterizations. There's a very strong aging process in the autonomous. There is also, in Galicia's case, a higher level of feminization than in Spain's whole. We know what aging and feminization mean in future projections: it means lower retirement pensions and, therefore, greater economic difficulties for these workers. And, without a doubt, we found ourselves in an extremely weak sector. Weak, first, because it depends — as I said before — in terms of demographics, in terms of training, of characteristics inherited from other times. I insist, I know perfectly well that the sociodemographic characteristics of a woman inside Galician age 55-60 does not have the responsibility of the Feijóo Government, but it is true that nothing is being done to solve the problems of these people — I insist — without employees, who quote the minimum base and — I repeat — the third oldest community in Spain. This ends up having a dramatic result in terms of economic fabric, and it is that these small enterprises, in many cases isolated workers, as soon as they retire, their businesses disappear, and that disappearance of business has an important relevance in territorial terms, in terms of providing some services and in terms of settlement of the population, especially in those rural areas or in those areas of intermediate towns basically within the autonomous community. In quantitative terms, the truth is that data is worse than in the Spanish ensemble. The loss of self-employed people is more intense than in Spain. And when I say more intensely, I'm talking about a very important change. If the set of Spain has lost approximately 0.6% of its autonomy between 2009 -- I've picked up 2009 not to catch 2011 and I'm not told to party; that is, I've been collecting since GDP starts to fall -- and 2017, Galicia has dropped by 6.5%, that is, ten times more. So this is the scene where we move. In front of this scenario, the counsellor at the interrogation told us of a strategy specific to self-government; novelty. Until that day I had never heard her speak in the multiple press rounds, but it could be a matter of discretion, I can also understand that she had not done so. I am returning to the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, nor does it appear. There's not the 2050 climate change strategy, there's not the 2050 climate change strategy. Finally, I believe that this strategic plan is actually merely continuum; that is to say, it is used when it is needed and pure and it was simply part of that advertising and propaganda strategy we're talking about. What we present in this motion is a plan or lines of action of a plan that allows the generational replacement of self-employment. It's not specifically directed at rural areas, but it's obvious that in rural areas it's where there's more difficulty for that generational relief. And we ask for three points, by the way. The first is to study — I think it is appropriate, so to learn — to analyze and diagnose the situation of the activities of small self-employed and their impact on the economy of Galicia, especially on the rural economy. Then define the priority groups, because they are actually aware that resources are scarce and I think it is important to have a population as fine as possible, as it is said in some way. So on the one hand the variable age, the older population before retirement, of course. It could be 55-65, 60-65. This would be the first item. The second would be to prioritize the commercial fabric of small towns and, in many cases, traditional professions at risk of disappearance. I think it's an element that may seem smaller in quantitative terms, but it's territorially important, without any doubt. It would then be very important that, within this generational relief, beneficiaries were people up to 30 years old, young people, and, above all, prioritising beneficiaries of the youth guarantee system, i.e. those outside the formal education system, because this would allow them a path — we are talking about in many cases of unskilled trade, hospitality, etc. — integration into the labour market. Another important variable would be all that has to do with the return or maintenance of the population in its place of origin. Of course, it is obvious that they would give priority to the direct family members of these business owners, but also experience tells us that this family leap rarely occurs or occurs on very few occasions. And finally, special attention is paid to collectives at risk of exclusion and disability. This would allow a Danish population to make it both from the point of departure of work and from the scope of entry, I think it could give a proper idea what it would want to be done. And then instrumental measures to act on this population set. The first, of course, training. It is essential, we have seen it saying here, we deeply regret that the training programme for employees last year of the Employment, Economic and Industry Council literally had not been carried out anything — I insist, training for employees, nothing. It is therefore essential to improve these capacities. On the other hand, it's very important to improve second-opportunity programs as well. I mean, I believe that in a context of market economy failure is part of the economic activity itself, and I think it is important to progressively introduce this idea. And the third point is essentially to seek ways of financing. We're seeing that Igape's public funding is not executed for whatever reason. The counselor says it's because they're multi-year plans, I think it's for other things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u96	It's over, Mr. President. And we also see how the bank's oligopolitical process is increasingly hampering access to credit. So this would be the plan we'd consider. We would accept the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block because it's true that with zero interest rates right now, interest rates are very low. I don't know how long we can keep...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u97	You've got a shift... thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u98	...the letter to the magician kings, but it is true that at this moment it is relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u99	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u100	Very good afternoons. BNG shares concern about the situation of autonomous people. The reality of Galicia's economic fabric is micro and small business. Self-employed people account for 22.3% of their membership in Social Security. A reality, as the deputy proponent described, that 80% of the people who travel with the minimum base, which means that we will soon meet with minimum pensions. The average retirement of self-employed people in Galicia is below the minimum interprofessional wage. That's a more evident proof of what the economic situation of them is. An average pension that only reaches 600 euros —605 — when the minimum inter-professional wage is EUR 707; that is, we are with people with pensions on the poverty line, because there are EUR 102 below the minimum inter-professional wage, and these 14 annual payments give an amount of EUR 8,460. Less than 500 euros separate us from the poverty line. And with differences with regard to the general regime. Of course, it's no longer to throw rockets at the pension situation in the general regime, but we're talking about 465 more, and this is quite palpable to see the photograph of this sector. We found ourselves with a reality where the Spanish State is a destroyer of autonomy. It is the second state of the European Union that most autonomous people lost during the crisis, only surpassed by Italy. In 2007, there were 3,300,000 self-employed persons in the Spanish State. By the end of 2016 I was at 2,930,000, i.e. 370,000 people less. And the dramatic thing is that almost 60 percent of these people were employers -- that is, at this descent all people who went to unemployment would have to be added because they were employed by these people. This is the data from the Spanish State, and in Galicia the X-ray is even worse. In June 2008, there were 337,306 autonomous, and in May 1917 there were 215,137; that is, 119,169 people less autonomous in the Feijó era, who would be more if we had counted there those who are self-sufficient, but who are false autonomous, and all these figures derived from labour reform, which make people who are autonomous when they are not. That is why we agreed with this initiative and indeed we tabled an amendment to it, because in the interpellation of the previous plenary session we spoke long and held that one of the fundamental problems of autonomous people — who have many and varied — is the lack of funding, financial exclusion, but then when we came to see the motion put forward by the Socialist Party, I made no reference to this question. That's why we tabled an amendment that added a new point in that paragraph on instrumental measures in the motion, a new paragraph that says, "A program that contemplates the impulse to a public line of credit for zero interest for priority groups." We actually agree on measures that have brought down here the adviser to subsidize interest, but the problem is that they have no access to credit. This framework of banking system enthusiastically fostered by power, determined by the European Union, followed by the Spanish Government and the Government of the Union, of financial concentration, which leads to the financial exclusion of many sectors of our society. Under the euphemism of restructuring, of management, what they did was to concentrate 80% of deposits on just four, five, private entities, eliminating — as in the case of Galicia — savings boxes, any kind of public issue, which, by the way, still exist enthusiasticly and living with the large banks in France, Germany or elsewhere; that is, as always, they want to be champions in the good, bad and medio-pensionist, with which, autonomous people are those large excluded from the financial system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u101	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u102	We see how they have to deal with these fixed quotas, paying in advance the parts that correspond to them of the VE, and it's found that they don't have cream. Even the other day it was bloody to see how some people put on the networks like the Banco Popular Pastor forced him to buy shares from some autonomous in exchange for giving him credit. This is the financial system that we have, tremendously for the whole of society and, in particular, for self-government and self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Sea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u104	Thank you very much, President. We won't say anything new in claiming that the collective of small self-employed people, who are the real creators of work, the generating lung of the social economy, is one of the most abused by the policies developed in the last thirty years. They did things for this collective, yes, but what they did was neither sufficient nor necessarily good. This motion presents a small opportunity to start balancing a little that balance. An important part of the self-employed people who aim at this initiative are mainly artisans and small farmers who maintain the increasingly scarce family businesses that serve smaller rural populations. Businesses that, if they disappeared, would make it even more difficult to settle or maintain the population in those nuclei. The retirement of these autonomouss will lead in some cases to the loss of traditional professions that are strongly linked to our environment and culture. Therefore, the value of maintaining and trying to encourage the generational substitution of these groups in the terms set out here has a value beyond the purely economic value. It is therefore necessary to know in depth how it contributes not only directly, but almostly more indirectly, to the maintenance of population services in rural nuclei. The policies developed to make rural a choice as valid and attractive to settle down as urban populations have been little successful; partly because the services in these rural centres are in many poor or non-existent cases, by gradually disappearing, over the last decades, their commercial fabric. We need the population to settle in those small rural nuclei, to keep traditional professions linked to the productive sectors and to give themselves the necessary legal security conditions for new generations to bet on the maintenance of these professions and businesses. That, ladies and gentlemen, requires policies that facilitate it, enhance it and enable its inhabitants to have basic commercial structures that are increasingly scarce and that these autonomouss come with many difficulties and little or no support from the Administration. Focusing on the measure would benefit people between the ages of 18 and 30 is an important point to prevent young people from having to abandon their people necessarily to put their family viability in place, to be able to have an alternative job and that their families have access to services that in many cases disappear with the retirement of these self-employed. It will therefore allow for a close approach to the difficult struggle to curb the aging and depopulation of rural areas. It is an obligation for all institutions and for the Administration to do everything possible in this matter. If with this first step in this motion we develop policies that can curb the exodus of the population in this village, it will be a success. And there will be even more policies that help preserve traditional professions at risk of disappearance. I leave the reflection that we have in rural Galicia an opportunity for growth that other territories do not have: let's take advantage of it! A model that really counts on rural occupation, which facilitates the creation of direct and indirect jobs and allows us to create a commercial fabric in our rural nuclei will be a model of success. I say in words that the Members of the People's Group will understand perfectly: the worse their cuts, the better it will be for rural people. And the better the rural way, the worse for the cuts, theirs. We will therefore support this motion from the Parlia­mentary Group in Marea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u105	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Losada, I sincerely thank you for your concern at the situation of self-employed people, self-employed people, those heroic and essential entrepreneurs for any economy. Essential because they are the ones who generate economic activity and, in turn, generate employment and therefore wealth for the country. Their impact on the economy is indisputable, and their vertebrate role too. The autonomous life is not easy, and if you're a woman, much more complicated. I'm not going to say impossible, but you actually leave a lot of things on the way. So for all of them and all of them as self-employed -- as you rightly said here -- they have much less rights than the workers, and as entrepreneurs they risk their heritage, their housing and their lifetime savings to get a life plan ahead of them, I want to give them our greatest recognition from this rostrum. [[Applause]] A recognition, ladies and gentlemen, that is not just words and that is shown with measures. Even in the midst of the deepest crisis that has touched us to manage, the Government of the State, the People's Party, has carried out more initiatives for the autonomous than any other government in the democratic period. But let's focus on our skills. In Galicia, autonomouss are the basis of the German production system, a key figure in our work fabric and therefore a priority for President Feijóo. That's why the 2020 Self-Government Strategy is already activated, as we promise in the election campaign, so, ladies and gentlemen, it's nothing new. It shouldn't work so hard, Mr. Losada, what you say about propaganda and advertising when you haven't even read the press notes from the board of assembly that this strategy was approved three months ago. [[Applause]] A strategy that has 160 million euros for the next four years — 40 million a year — to incorporate new people and strengthen existing self-employment through aid, services and spaces for collaborative work. To facilitate better working conditions through support for reconciliation, health care and risk prevention, and simplify the interaction of the autonomous collective through new technologies. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, to facilitate generational relief with a program that comes out of consensus with autonomous associations, as the councillor advanced in the past full. A plan that will include technical, economic and mediation support, which will make this process easier and easier, which — I insist, ladies and gentlemen — is consensual. The aim of this plan is to promote business continuity, while at the same time promoting the integration of youth, expanding and improving the similar program that has existed years ago for trade. A situation that will be complemented by support for the transmission of companies already existing at the state level and the services offered through Re-Actiona, making it available to the autonomous an expert advice for the development of plans and protocols of a family enterprise that guide the generational succession. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not ballad, because these things that are feasible in medium-sized businesses, and I don't tell them about the big ones, who already have specific departments to face challenges and adversitys, for small businessmen it's impossible if they don't do the administration's hand. I don't know if who solved the socialist bench one day created a job or created a company. So, Mr. Losada, the Government is already drawing up a new generational relief plan as you are asking for, but along with the sector, actively listening to self-employed workers' associations. I have no doubt that, as a result of that consensus, the most appropriate measures will come out to achieve what you so much—I want to think—as we intend: the continuity of all those businesses that are viable and even their growth. The reality is that Galicia is the most supportive community offering self-government, and will continue to do so, since the Government has set the goal of directly supporting 40,000 self-employed people by 2020. Galicia is a pioneer in strengthening the growth and consolidation of this collective, calling for aid for 20 million euros to establish itself as an autonomous and for the indefinite recruitment of workers. Also in the aid to support the self-employed who make up small businesses, worth 2 million euros. And in addition, it is made available to the autonomous other tools, although some call it subprime policy: the Galicia programme undertakes, the rural Galicia programme undertakes and, of course, the Smart Commerce program, where one in four autonomouss are traders; 1.3 million euros to modernise and improve the image of our trade. I'm done, Mr. President. I know the opposition will never recognize it, but the autonomouss of Spain, and especially those of Galicia, know that they have never had a better support framework, they know that they are now better, no matter how much I wish to paint another picture. If not, let's compare with the years you ruled. Today we have fewer autonomous people who act as physical, less autonomous people who work without employees and less autonomous than 55 years of age or older. I want to remind you that in the last year that Galicia was ruled over 7,500 memberships of the special self-employed regime. So, welcome to the self-defense, and as an autonomous and daughter of an autonomous pioneer woman in many aspects of her life, both personal and labor, I sincerely thank her for her group's concern for these workers, and would ask them to defend the self-defense, supporting the measures taken in state budgets, of great value to them, and then thinking about the personal promotion of her leader and how to be president if she had won the elections again. Of course, from our group and from the Government, we will continue to work to make Galicia the most favourable place to be autonomous. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Motion author group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u108	Thank you very much. I am also an autonomous son; in fact, I was moved by the beginning of Mrs. Romero's intervention. Look, less poetry and more budget. I mean, I read the board press notes, but there's not the 160 million euros as such anywhere. There's no plan to support self-government in the Strategic Plan. Advertising and propaganda, Mrs. Romero, advertising and propaganda. I'm glad you're Mr. Counsellor, because I'd ask you to tell me exactly what matches these issues appear. In fact, Mrs. Romero, you used, all the time, a verbal time of the future; I suppose you betrayed her subconscious, but in the future. I don't know what they're going to do, I'm sure they're going to do a lot of things. For now, at the state level, you, who are very concerned about the leader of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, the only two self-support laws in this country have been promulgated by the socialist-chaired governments by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. So, advertising and propaganda, whatever. [[Applause]] Mr. Aznar, absolutely nothing, and, of course, Mr. Rajoy, doing what God wants, for neither; of course, doing what God wants, nor. Budgets. Mrs. Romero, look at the reduction in the 751A programme, of reorganization of Galicia's internal trade, had a reduction between 2010 and 2010 — of its year, it is not the budget inherited from the Bipartite — and the year 2017, of 50%. I have the data here, or at least the data provided by the Galician Union. And then, even above that budget cut, they left out of 40 million more euros. Hey, can you really come here to tell us that I support the self-sufficient, in the end? Can you, really? So why are the self-sufficient people complaining? Of course, that would be the reflection that I think, as rulers, should do. Do you know what's going on? What happens is that funding is extremely difficult. We have a situation practically with a banking duopolie system that does not allow funding from financial institutions. The Igape — I repeat again — despite the multi-annuality of which the Counsellor speaks, undoubtedly fails to meet the needs for which he has been set up. And on the other hand, the own delays in payments and the own treasury problems of the small establishments, which you know perfectly well that there exist, Mrs. Romero. I understand you have to say so what you have to say, of course. And language modifies reality, of course. It is very good that the councillor should come here and talk to us about the business angels, which remains well—it is true that it remains well—but soon the small shops of the Rue de Petín or the Gudina, or of Vilalba or — I don't know — of the Bridges, undoubtedly, have real problems that have very little to do with the angels of the business, very little to do with, Mrs. Romero. And the proof — and I now do go to the data — is that the problem with all of this is that then we see how autonomous Greeks have a pension that is Spain's penultimate, we see how it systematically increases labour poverty and, therefore, reduces the capacity to demand and purchase, and this directly affects trade, as you well know, and you also know perfectly well that most unemployed people over 55 years old, whether self-employed or self-employed, will no longer work, Mrs. Romero. And, therefore, economic reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u110	...—ending, Mr President—of these workers is very difficult, and the generational relief, which is what this motion is about in principle, because, although it has given me the feeling that there has been a dispersal, in that case there is absolutely no explicit measure in the budgets of the Council of Galicia, and if not, I challenge it to tell me what programme and what budget departure is presenting this support to the generational relief of the self-employed. None, Mrs. Romero, none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u111	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u112	Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the motion of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out in connection with the proposal to be presented by the Council of Galicia in the process of developing a new system of self-financing The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u113	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group are accepted and amendments to the Group on the People's Parliamentary Group are not accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to polluting industrial emissions The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u114	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the performances that must be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the generational importance in the business of the self-employed. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u115	We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u116	Let's resume the session with agenda item 4, which is non-legislative proposals. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u117	Before I begin to discuss the first proposal, I report a change in the agenda, a new change in the agenda. And it is that the Government has been suspended from questioning the number of register 7198, which is the one that appears in the section of interpellations in the first place. As I said, you were asked for your approval. And then we started with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to cover the existing demand for public squares in children's schools
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u118	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u119	To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u120	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. If in the morning the Socialist Group was taking this full by paying tribute and paying our regret, therefore, for the situation in which Portugal is, today, the World Refugee Day, allow me to make a few seconds to make a call and send a SOS to the Government of Madrid, to the Government of Mr. Rajoy, who must consider that shelter is for charity. And it's not charity what we're asking for, and what we're going to keep claiming until it's fulfilled. Those people who escape the horror -- exactly 24 every minute of the past -- don't want charity, what they want is their rights, human rights. And this government has an obligation to comply with them. [[Applause]] The initiative that we are presenting right now is within which we consider it possible and important ways to solve the demographic problem, and also on the basis of equal opportunities, not only for newborns, but for people in general, but also for men and women. On the problem of population aging we have been repeating on many occasions that has several axes to be affected. First, to recover talent, that which has gone abroad, to emigration; to increase conciliation measures; to increase the rate of female occupation; and something that is fundamental, in terms of this initiative, that is to improve public services. We are talking about conciliation and one of its most important resources, the children's schools between 0 and 3 years old, which come to solve — as was said at the beginning of the intervention — part of the demographic problem, and which may or may not be framed within equal opportunities, depending on whether we resort, and whether the Government of Greece, in particular, resorts to the creation of public squares, or whether it continues to privatize this resource. What resources does our autonomous community count on? Well, in addition to the private and the social initiative, in the audience there are those who have their own municipalities and those of the Galician Union through the Consortium and the Galician Service Agency. They know and know, through the media, the disaster that has once again been this year, the adjudication of squares in these children's schools. The parents and mothers, those more than 3,000 families, more than 31% of the applications, who are on the waiting list because they feel a little, year after year, with the same frustration and uncertainty you have when you play lottery, who doesn't know if you're going to be lucky or not to get the prize. And in most cases we already know it doesn't happen that way. From the Socialist Group we have no doubt - as the Director-General of the Family and the Counsellor himself said - that there will not be a single child/girl left in Galicia without public support. Well, what does this mean? Does this mean that children will be able to go to public centers? No, this means public support to private centres. And this is no coincidence. It is to create a necessity to end by resorting — as it is usually customary in this government — to those lifeguards — so to speak — to consider the privatization of services; a need that, as I said, creates the policies of this government. Mr. Feijóo created — and I say this before the People's Party's Voice or Voice came here — 62 infantry schools since he ruled; of which — and, indeed, fellows and companions, you can feel proud — 54 were projected by the Bipartite. I mean, 62 minus 54 is 8, which was what Mr. Feijóo did in eight years. It's one per year. I mean, to cover the demand for public squares at the rate that we're going to need exactly a quarter of a century, that is, twenty-five years. [[Applause]] What was it, besides, what did they do? Well, while we were ruling and trying to plan a network of high-quality public childhood schools for families, they've dedicated themselves to throwing pests at the galescolas. I'm sure everyone remembers. And what did they do when they ruled? They assumed what we had done, but because of political revenge, they changed his name and even changed his logo to put on a striped suit. Besides, what they did was to increase the price by more than 27% of each public square. By the way, they'll also hear what's called "upgradation." It's actually a price increase that didn't happen in the past fifteen years. And so it puts 50% of IPREM in having to pay 16.5 euros for a school dining room. And they did something else: they stopped the creation of new infant schools in those places where private centers existed. And that's not what this Member or the PSdEG says. He collected the Spanish Association of Private Teaching Centers. And so we told the Director General of the Family that, if this was not true, I should file a complaint. Because what this press release says is that, "with regard to the indiscriminate opening of public schools" — so this association considers it — "the Director General of the Family has undertaken to halt the construction of new public centers in areas where private centres already exist." Of course, a month ago we told him that, if this was not true -- and we told him for her and for the image of the German Government itself -- they should denounce and request the withdrawal of it. Today it's still on this website, which we understand is true. Well, what do we want to do? What are the Socialist Group's proposals in this matter? The number of public squares must be increased so that it is not necessary to make permanent use of the concert with private entities. How? Today we're going to give him the formula to do it. The 7 million investments listed in the budgets dedicated to private centres, which is not an invention, ladies and gentlemen, can check —500,000 for infrastructures of private centres, 3.4 for which the Greek Government calls the "good conciliation", which is nothing more than "good privatization", that is, those families that are left without public resources, we give them money, a bonus for them to use to a private centre, and more than 3 million euros for grants, in total, 7 million — so well, in two years they would be 14 million, with which we would have to make the investment and create all the public squares that are needed in this autonomous community. What we're asking you today is that this government should do what it does in two years now, at the rate that they go, the forecast is to do in twenty-five. It is also important that children's schools in industrial polygons have centres of attention for children and children close to jobs. And how? Of course, not making a fuss like the last adjudication, which of the 2.5 million euros that were planned through European funds left without running more than 82%. I mean, 400,000 euros have been executed and two childhood schools are going to be made. If it's hard to reconcile parents and mothers all year round, it's even more complicated when children have vacations. And that is where it comes into play — so to speak — what we consider from the Socialist Group that has been during this crisis the great social mattress that families are having, which are grandparents and grandparents, to those who resort to a lot of the families of this country when there is no one to leave the children and girls. Well, what we're trying to do is, so families don't have to do these juicy games with whom to leave children, which opens a public school in every place. And about that minimum ratio, that there's no need for there to be 15 applications in this respect, and that all the demand is covered, which is something that seems fundamental to us. Because it's true that there's an announcement from the Galician Union that a teaching centre will be opened from 0 to 3 years in each locality even if there is no such ratio. But we ask ourselves, what if, for example, ladies and gentlemen, a child's school has 20 squares and there are 21 squares? Does Galician Union commit to opening two infantry schools in each locality? Mrs. Rodríguez Arias put that face and moved her head, but it's happened another summer. And that's exactly why we want to solve this problem and get ahead of what can happen and the problem that many families can suffer. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what we want today from the Socialist Group — and I say humbly — is to take a more and more important step towards reconciling the families of this country, to continue fighting for equal opportunities, and, above all, in a much simpler and simpler way, to prevent the disaster from happening again every year of those families who, as I said before, have to look for a place in a public school as if it were practically to touch the fat of Christmas. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u122	Good afternoon. Children are the most important stage, or at least very important, in the socialization of children and children, and it is essential for their development. It's when the personality begins to form, when the first friendships are made, when the family circle is broken and social life begins. And the school, at the stage of childhood education, also has a fundamental role to play in setting the language itself and the characteristics closest to the person. With the return of the People's Party to the Greek Government in 2009, the task of demolition of a public educational model that had begun to develop in 2007 for children aged between 0 and 3 years was also included in a public teaching model. The People's Party did what it did was end with the model of the Galescolas, enthusiastically proclaimed Nuñez Feijóo a few days from winning the elections that ended the Galescolas. Clearly, it was a priority issue for the People's Party. And he didn't mean innocently changing the name of Welshmen for that nice change to call them "blue hens"; nor was the goal was simply to change the mandrels where there were houses with yellow flags for a blue hen. The People's Party I had in mind was a matter of much higher silence. He lacked time to tear down and dismantle this model of public education and in English, reimposing a model that was essentially a caretaker and focused on solving work and family reconciliation for a few hours, but not with a pedagogical vocation. What he did was he went to dismantle the children's schools as a public service, to cut staff, he was cutting hours, he eliminated the educational couple, he went up prices, I mean, he was deteriorating the public service of the public schools in the children's schools. It has decided to privatize basic services by making them business for private companies that it grants private management of the centers. It is clear that they remain enthusiastic in this line. In the past full we heard the presence of the Social Policy Adviser in which he referred to this system of taking care of companies, individual people, resources for punctual moments for a certain amount of time—we can talk to the greater, we can talk about children's homes—without creating a real public network of infrastructures where we can actually also give that quality teaching at the 0 to 3 year stage. Faced with prioritising the extension of the public network, the People's Party opted for this privatization model, for failing to perceive this step from 0 to 3 years as a clearly educational step. That's why today the BNG will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal brought by the Socialist Party, but we tabled a two-point amendment on two issues. The first — and I hope that we will vote for it in the same way even if it does not accept it — refers to the fact that, in the initiative presented to us, point 1 is spoken of as an increase in the number of public squares in children's schools so that it is not necessary to increase concerts. And the BNG we're presenting is an amendment for a plan to be put in place so that in this legislation you can offer the number of public squares enough to cover the demand. I mean, it's not just the issue of covering those that aren't -- that this has to be a priority -- we want to go further, we want not only to offer public squares where there aren't the ones that are agreed, but we think it's essential to make a whole network of public squares for the full range of demand. And the second part of the amendment is an addendum, to increase the Socialist Party's proposal and to consider the 0-3-year course as a phase of child education and integrated into the area of the competent education council. It's not a whim, it's not indifferent to him being in one or another council, but the fact that he's in Social Policy is exacerbating in an exaggerated way the care nature of raising issues of conciliation — which are necessary —. But our proposal and insistence — and we will continue to do so — includes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u124	...in the Teaching Council is because, if you're in that board, it'll mean that if you really want to go to a stage from 0 to 3 as a fully educational step and not merely a care step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u126	Thank you. Good afternoon. Of course we will support this non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group. It goes on to the line of what we've defended, to increase public squares in children's schools. But, as the representative of the BNG said, we made a series of amendments also to highlight this issue: the nature of early childhood education as a right, the right to education. For us this issue is central, it has already been pointed out here in numerous debates. We note that these children's schools from 0 to 3 years old, insofar as they guarantee this is a right, that all children, born in our country, have the right to be educated in their early childhood, we understand that they must form a dependent public network, as has already been pointed out by the Galician Nationalist Block Group, of the Education Council. That is why we propose that we present to this Parliament, before the end of 2017, a budgetary plan, an educational plan, which allows this public education network to be deployed from 0 to 3 years and that this is transferred to the Education Council by 2020. That's how we did it on numerous proposals, and so we take it on our electoral program. We do so because statistics show that early schooling will not only improve academic performance — therefore, it becomes a basic factor of equity towards the future to ensure the subsequent success of school regardless of the origin of children — but also, as it has already been pointed out here, because social values settle in this early childhood; values such as equality, values such as ecology, of what we are talking about today, values like social justice — today we appeal to these refugees who dramatically continue in the doors of Europe, who theoretically defend these values that we want to instill in early childhood. And I also highlight the gender values, because it is not yet scientifically studied exactly when the gender roles are developed, but they are self-identified between 2 and 3 years old with one or another genre. And, knowing that gender is a social issue, it's vital that it is part of teaching and that maleistic prejudices that are in society are taken away in teaching. Education in equality values is essential to avoid machoism, to allow children to express themselves in their gender. It's also teaching is a fundamental question for this, to build, at last, an equal society and even free of binaryism. It would be a deeper debate. Also for the language it would be this school from 0 to 3 years, something fundamental, to bring the language closer to our children and children. Of you, of the People's Party, I want to remember here — I think my companions have already done so to some extent — their infamy about language in the Welsh schools. Because in 2009 you were introduced to the elections by saying that the children and children of Galician descent were discriminated against in the Galescolas for speaking to them in Greek. But it's just the opposite. When you go to school in a language that's demeaned, the children and the children who speak Spanish, the dominant language, you don't feel prejudiced. On the contrary, I'm curious about the language. And, on the contrary, when you go to school in the dominant language, the children and children who speak Galician, these are going to lose their language. Because it's dramatic the disappearance of our language of childhood education. So we support the creation of a public quality education network from 0 to 3 years old and in Greek, of course. Another of the amendments we bring is to increase the exemptions from payment of fees, as we aspire to a universal education and to which these access rates are being reduced, which are also limiting to the extent that during the crisis family income, especially the most disadvantaged families, has fallen. However, those prices have increased this year. As well as industrial polygons — for us it is essential for companies to contain this service in relation to the aspect of conciliation — we propose that they end up in collaboration with employers and trade unions. To some extent, the failure of this star measure that intended to open a number of infant schools in industrial polygons will have to see that there was no previous dialogue with employers and trade unions. And speaking of the aspect of conciliation, we, although we note this aspect of education, of the right to education in schools from 0 to 3 years old, also understand that it has become a fundamental means of conciliation — not enough but fundamental —. This would therefore also ensure that employment equality is achieved, that children's schools, the public network are combined with higher parental and untransferable parental and maternity permits, with employment policy betting. This would be politics to stop the demographic decline, not the occurrences, some of which we saw in the previous plenary. Therefore, public network, quality teaching in Greek from 0 to 3 years, which is incompatible with the depreciation of squares that have occurred in the past legislation and with encouraging private business niches instead of setting up this public network, or increasing the ratio of pupils by educator or educator. So we're going to support this proposal and leave our approach there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u127	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. First of all, I want to clarify a matter to the honourable ladies and gentlemen. In 2009, Galicia had 12,681 squares in children's schools. In 2017 Galicia has 22,316 squares in children's schools. We're talking about 9,635 new squares in children's schools since 2009. The European Union's recommended coverage in children's schools is 33%. In 2009 coverage was 19%, in 2017 coverage was 37.2%, exceeding four points the European Union recommendation. [[Applause]] But of course, as all this was thanks to the Bipartite, who let us project a lot of children's schools throughout Galicia, today we have nothing left to say: thank you, thank you, because thanks to this project you left zero child's schools in Galicia. Because, look, zero, zero! [[Murmurs.]] By projecting, you were able to project a school in every neighbourhood of Galicia. The thing is, how many little schools did you leave in service, in service? None! You see, you think, you could build 24 childhood schools with 3.6 million euros, when they really needed 27 million euros. Therefore, with their accounts it was impossible to set up any children's school in Galicia. And, of course, they're now saying that the model of the Welsh Bipartite was an impeccable model that the People's Party criticized. Madam spokesperson for the Socialist Party, but if we all know that the first ones who criticized the format of the children's schools were the Socialist Party, if President Touriño criticized Quintana saying her network was a client network. But what are we left with? Did you like the model of the children's schools in the Bipartite or didn't you like it? Because I don't know what you're playing at. Look, what's a reality is that in the next course, Junta will offer 22,439 squares across the Galician network of children's schools, funded from public funds. And in addition, it will launch 30 new children's homes in parishes in rural areas, 12 new children's schools in business parks and industrial polygons. In addition, 2,600 Conciliation Bond aids were granted in 2016. With regard to vacation periods, of those you talk about at your own initiative, we inform you, as you know, that the Galician Social Services Agency contemplates opening a school by municipality in different vacation periods, regardless of existing demand. The need to have a minimum demand of 15 children is eliminated for opening up these periods. And that's what you know, but it puts it the same way in your initiative. Why? Because you get here and you start by, "And if you don't get a kid's school for the county, "and if it turns out there's more than two kids that don't fit in that... " Look, the fact is that the Agency is planning to open a school for children by city hall during vacations and the "if" we leave it for you. Because, look, they invented a new formula for managing social services. Turns out now the People's Party wants to dismantle social services and you've invented smart management. They created a company to build residences and day centers, privatized the service of "dinnering at home," privatized the management of day centers, not to mention that 100 percent of the municipal schools in Santiago, Vigo or La Coruña have private management. So when you talk about the People's Party -- which currently 96.5 percent of the public squares have direct management through the Council -- remember that you have 100 percent of the privatized infant schools in the municipalities. But surely it's not privatizing, it's probably smart management, it turns out that it's smart management. Look, they promised to municipalize children's schools, for example, in Santiago Town Hall. And it turns out that instead of municipalizing them, what they do is extend contracts. Of course, now Mrs de En Marea comes here asking for a public education and quality network. You talk to your mayors so they can municipalize those services and stop extending contracts with companies. [[Applause]] You're talking about privatization. Look, it's just that in Vigo Town Hall you can no longer privatize anything because it's all privatized: the home aid service, tele-assisted services, the playhouses, the Social Emergency Center, the family intervention, even the four new children's schools that opened the socialist mayor, the four, have private management. So be clear, you have the same speech when you come here talking about the social services of the Galician Union and when you manage yourself in your county. There's only one goal here: to ensure that no child is left without a place in a child's school. And that's us, and it's Galician Union. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u130	Thank you very much, President. Today morning he quoted great philosophers here. I, right now, just remembered Mr. Manquiña, when in that famous movie he was saying, "I'm telling you the same thing I'm telling you." Let's see, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, you can come here to promise... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u131	Silence, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u132	You can come here and your government, the government they're holding, promising whatever you want. The reality is what the memory of budgets says. In the 2016 budget memory, 596 squares were to be launched. And how many are there? Half. No. 2017 is 402. That is, as the general tonic is usually, of what they promise, half, with little luck because we expect 200 to be put in place, that they are still insufficient, that they follow at a pace that will take us twenty-five years to have the number of necessary squares. Well, I should begin by thanking both the amendments of the Galego Nationalist Block and En Marea, which we are going to incorporate into our initiative because we understand that they improve the text, that they affect issues where our initiative did not come into particular, such as the issue of prices, which is very important, and that, as I said in the first intervention, the People's Party calls it "upgradation" and then, when it reaches the Government, it increases 27% of the price per public square. By the way, if you want, we'll talk about Vigo and his social services whenever you want -- I told him the other day and I'll say it again -- without any problem. Yeah, yeah, no problem. [[Murmurs.]] And you can also copy something, because in Vigo Town Hall it turns out that the viguens and the vigues pay half for a public school square in children's school of the one that's budgeted to Junta de Galicia. So I don't have any kind of complexes, nor this group, in talking about the politics my fellows and comrades are doing in the Town Councils; rather, quite the opposite, Your Honor. [[Applause]] They speak again and assume the coverage ratio again -- 33% we're at 38% -- and play the trick again, play with that eufemism of squares with public support. Squares with public support include subvention to squares in private centres. What percentage is there, Mrs Rodríguez Arias, of public squares, 100 percent public, as the Nordic countries have, if they do meet that coverage ratio and do not mix with concert data with private entities? Well, what we see again, once again, is that the People's Party has an impact on its disastrous policy on the network of children's schools and that in the coming year parents and mothers will again encounter the same problem and uncertainty. You haven't had a word for those families who today don't know if for the course they're coming will be able to take their children to a center or not, those who are lucky to work — as I always say — or those who have to leave them because unfortunately they have to go looking for a job. Towards them not a single word from the majority group of this House. And by the way, he could do it, if not for all Galicia, for the 75 that are left in his county. What do you say, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, to those families who are awaiting a public center?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u134	What are they doing? What's the fault of the Bipartite? Open... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u135	Quiet, quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u136	Stop opposing the past and start putting measures on the table that solve the problems that the Greeks and the Greeks have. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Ms. Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demand from the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice for the increase of the prosecutor's office in Galicia and its staffing with a greater number of resources, as well as to the Attorney-General's Office for the creation of an exclusive anti-corruption prosecutor for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u138	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u139	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "Corruption is a criminal phenomenon that is among the first concerns of society, creates mistrust in institutions, disrupts its normal functioning and affects the structure of the democratic coexistence system, so it must be fought with rigour." Ladies and gentlemen, these are not my words, but it's a reflection of the State Attorney General's Office made in 2012. From that, however, corruption reaches the judicial system itself, which is pressed by the Government to finally fail to act on this reality, which, as you see, we do not invent it, is not invented by the Group of En Marea. Every year 200 investigations are open for corruption crimes in Galicia. And it's not my data either, but the superior prosecutor, Mr. Fernando Suanzes, made public even earlier this month. And his party is the first government party in Spain, and not only in Spain but in Europe, which is charged with this kind of crime. I will no longer enter the account of cases in which they are immersed, for they were clearly exposed in the defence of the motion of censure which was debated a week ago in the Congress of Deputies, yes, that motion which for you was not for nothing and which was a theatre, which was a circus, which clearly made clear that they had no real arguments against them and that they had to resort to the easy joke or to sapphire, to which we have been so accustomed, full after and romary after romariaria, their leader, Mr Feijóo, or the behaviours as shameful as those of their spokesman at Congress, Mr. Rafael Hernando, who has even offended the House's own president, Mrs. Pastor. It's less bad that Mr. Puy gives us something more education and class. In fact, as much as they want to avoid the motion, it served, and served for a long time. Because you've shown that you don't have most of them in the House, those most of them you like to talk about so much about. They don't like this one so much. And, above all, he did quite explicitly before citizenship — in parliamentary headquarters, which is where the sovereignty of the people resides — that his party is rotted and that he has no moral legitimacy to govern. But we return to Galicia, which, as the rest of society and second collects the CIS itself, also has among its main concerns this climate of corruption, of lack of ethics, morality and impunity in which we are immersed in the total passivity of the various governments of the People's Party, both here and in the state, and even from some judicial station, as we have already said, that we find ourselves a prisoner of the plot between the various powers. And what we need in a democratic country is precisely that there is separation between them, which makes a country democratic. Without a fair, independent justice, there is no democracy. And the sad thing is that we have to explain it to them. Paul Churches recalled in his speech the example of Never Again as a social expression of a political situation which had no other way out at the institutional level than a motion of censure, which also lived in this Parliament and which was also known that it would not be won immediately but that if it served to erode the rule of Mr. Fraga, that ex-Francist minister and founding father of his party. The social expression of our political situation, both then and now, had no way out but public ridicule for its lack of ethics and political responsibility. I repeat that that day in Congress has been shown to have no majority in the House. But the polls have already shown it to all institutional levels as well, they have clearly demonstrated it with the governments of the Tide, where it has been seen that bipartisanism has ended, with its privileges, and how we celebrate these governments still this weekend on their second anniversary. Those governments of the Tides of the three great Atlantic cities of the Coruña are still on foot despite their commitment to harm them, to paralyze them and to defame them. They live obsessed by naming them full after full, intervention after intervention, speaking and defaming these municipal governments because they cannot believe even if citizenship punished them for their corruption and mismanagement in the municipalities. They can't stand it, they're superior to you. In fact, you always say that citizens are not ignorant. Of course, and cities alike are not so afraid and they don't believe everything they tell them about the media that you control. But the reality is that the horizon for the change of regime, for the rupture of this regime that we challenge in 15M and which we need so much, is open. Perhaps that's why you have more than ever to cling to what is best given to them: looting, legally and illegally stealing, dictateing regulations that allow them to maintain their privileges, and also to remain in power and trying to control judges and prosecutors, such as Moix's scandal and his defense to the virtue that Mr. Maza, a corrupt anti-corruption prosecutor, with an account in Panama, a new record made in the People's Party, a party charged. But well, as, fortunately, in the judiciary if we can talk about isolated cases, we still believe in institutions. But the point is, you have to change them and change them radically. And unlike what you say, we have clear proposals in this regard. Because you really — we insist — want to interfere with the judiciary as well. And in judicial power there are great professionals. Most of them believe in the rule of law, and in the specific case of Galicia they raise their voice to denounce these data on levels of corruption which are inappropriate in any society with democratic health and repeatedly demand that we have already brought here on another occasion, which you obviously reject, which is the anti-corruption prosecution for Galicia. Because you refuse everything that has to do with transparency, even though it fills your mouth with saying that you've made a law about it. Otherwise, we can remember cases. They voted against the anti-corruption prosecutor's office again because they would expect what Mr. Maza said — even if he appointed and defended Mr. Moix’s outrage — they voted against the investigation committees of Villar Mir and Alvia, voted against the regulation of the lobbys — even this Friday, they said we were right but it was very complicated — they voted against the transparency and regeneration initiative, and miraculously voted in favour of the initiative on savings the previous plenary. And as long as you keep this attitude, the data is there, and Galicia is one of the territories that suffers the most from its illegal and legal corruption. An example of legalized corruption in Galicia, in the form of cutting policies to profit only a few, a clear example, is the situation of Welsh health. As we have denounced in every plenary session, in every commission since En Marea, through companion Eva Solla, Feijóo's Board has suspended child vaccination campaigns for drug debasing, he has lost hospital protocols and faced murder complaints for delaying treatment to patients who die without receiving them, such as those of hepatitis C. Meanwhile, they are accused of the best hospital in Spain, his work as a pharaonic: Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, Vigo. Why? because it's the most expensive in the country? because it's the most private, cut, resourceless? We did not choose that point to start the route of Tramabu in Galicia by chance, but by being one of the clearest examples of legalized corruption. And, look, there can be nothing more vile or worse than doing business with something as sensitive as health, there's nothing worse or more vile. Sergas helped build and operate his non-sanitary services for 1,300 million euros for 20 years — billions of pesetas. An operation that, together with the misappropriation of human and technical resources to which the centre counts, gave rise to a new exemplary reaction from civil society. The streets of Vigo witnessed a historic demonstration, the most populous of its history, where more than 200,000 people came to the Personal Meeting call to recover public health and quality. And also to make it clear to them something — even their voters, who were, by the way, there too in that demonstration — that with health there is no business in exchange for envelopes, rotational doors or funding from their party. And the sad thing is, I still remember Mr. Rueda making fun of this demonstration, in a debate in the electoral campaign on Radio Galega, which he did with me, without any kind of smell. And we also see how corruption is done through deputies, which, instead of being institutions for the people, have converted them into the symbol of caciquil corruption; deputies which, instead of using public money for people, are places that you have parasitized without control, with total shame, to win elections and profit. They even turned them into places to offer work in exchange for sex, which is funny! The selective justice of this country has discouraged the case, but ethically and morally in society, in the public opinion, they have lost the cause for greed, as much as they now try to bring the culprit through. What an indecency and shame, gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Applause]] More examples of his corrupt key policy are Rogelio Martínez, Mr Feijóo's right-hand man in Ourense, who will finally be judged for embezzlement of European funds, or the hidden agreements of the Council of the Union during the past legislate value of 280 million euros, among which is forgiveness for a fine of 3 million euros to the former MP and promoter Telmo Martín, who did not know at all Mr Trenor but turns out to be mayor of Sanxenxo in the face of popular stupor. Don't you think it's scandalous for this gentleman to be mayor again with his support, don't you think it's scandalous? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done, and, as I told you again, today they have a new opportunity to show whether they are really ashamed of some of their colleagues and, above all, whether they believe in democracy and the division of powers that must sustain them, or if, on the contrary, they prefer to remain accommodated in the comfort of crimes so that it seems they only pay bills to victims, citizens and citizens, because Democrats give us both victims and lies. And that's why there are reasons to defend this initiative that, from this Parliament, we urge the Ministry of Justice to increase and provide with more resources the prosecutor's office in Galicia, and we urge the State Attorney General's Office to set up an exclusive anti-corruption prosecutor for Galicia. And we hope they vote in favour this time. We accept the amendment of the Socialist Group. And I also tell you that this is not the definitive solution, it is not, because we, although we hope that they will vote for responsibility for this initiative, believe that the Spanish and Galician State will only be free of corruption when citizenship throws you — with "b" — from institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u141	Mrs. Santos, I ask you to remove the expression with which you addressed the People's Parliamentary Group, that of which "they plunder and steal." I'm asking you to take it off. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll call her in order. It's the regulation, and I think we all hear it. This type of expression cannot be allowed, disregard the dignity of a group. Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, if they do it in Congress, I don't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm worried about what's going on here. You mentioned this and I therefore call it by order. And dialogue dies here. Perfect! Intervention by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Vilan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, please don't get into this subject, please. That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u142	Thank you, President. Well, in line with the spirit of this non-law proposal, we have tabled a substitution amendment, which we believe improves and expands the text a little bit, which I will talk about right away. But, by taking the words of the Voicer of En Marea, I will allow myself to refer to a recent one that has deeply concerned us with Members and Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I'm referring to that brutal feeling of deprotection that the victims of macho violence have to have after the U.S. prosecutor's decision to demand that this woman be prosecuted for making a complaint against the president of the parliament. [[Applause]] We assume that the Prosecutor's Office — we are sure — works exclusively in accordance with the principles of independence, impartiality, legality and objectivity. But what's going to happen with the decision that took place in Ourense is something very serious, is that the victims will never trust the prosecutor's office or justice again. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to tell the prosecutor to do his job well, cautiously, very scrupulously, because he'll have the eyes of the PSdeG placed on his head for all the time that the procedure lasts for doing his job well. It's the only... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] President, I can't talk about other people's speeches. I wish you could keep quiet, unless the Lord of Ribadeo wants to come up here and defend my amendment, which I, for myself, have no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u143	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u144	Well, we only ask this gentleman to do his job well. Having said this, in our amendment, we urge the Government to demand an increase in resources for the Public Prosecutor's Office, but above all by creating at least those squares which prosecutors do not stop asking for year by year in their own memory — that I am a prosecutor in Lugo, Santiago, Ourense, Vigo and Cambados — although it is only for themselves, that they ask for it because they need it; otherwise they would not ask for it. And we also ask that this anti-corruption prosecution, which is mentioned in the non-law proposal, be a member of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and have sufficient equipment to carry out its work. Galicia's own senior prosecutor, Fernando Suanzes, and so on, is in the memory of the Prosecutor's Office for 2014 and 2015 — and he said it expressly at an appearance in this Parliament — said they need more personal means and more material means. And he also spoke of the prosecutors of Lugo, Santiago, Ourense, Vigo and Cambados. And it must be the Government of Greece — absent today — that demands the Government of the State to increase the personal media, the material media, and apply it too, since the vice president of the Union always comes here to show that he fulfills the legality, his own autonomous decree of 11 September 2014 in relation to the number of offices and the ideal ratio of prosecutors, which is not complied with or by assumption. The second question is the question of anti-corruption prosecution. We're talking about an undersigned prosecutor, as I said earlier, to the High Court of Justice, with a team that has to be a priority already, because it's necessary, and because, for example, Murcia or Valencia also have an anti-corruption prosecutor, and Galicia doesn't have to be less. We speak of a prosecutor who has in his evening table some papers that put on: legality, objectivity, impartiality and independence; without interference by any government, without copying the Minister of Justice, Catalan Minister of Justice, who has carried three general state prosecutors — one per year since he is, or less, until he has found his belt of perfect transmission, which is Mr. Maza, who, following the style of the Minister of Justice, has recently raised 35 holders of key organs of the Prosecutor's Office, some of them as sensitive as the Attorney General's Office of the National Audience or the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor — that is Mr. Moix, who was the penultimate anti-corruption prosecutor, who did not come out too well, who made a rotational door to Panama and who had to leave his prosecution afterwards. In short, we only ask that they be able to do their work and that you defend the prosecutors without interference — as is done since the governments of Mariano Rajoy — and more means and an anti-corruption prosecutor. And we hope our amendments can be accepted and we can deal with a single text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u146	Good afternoon. We would like to make some reflections on this initiative, a general reflection on corruption, also a reflection on the role of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office, and also on the mistrust and discredit they cause. To us, at least, that is the feeling that they provoke us, and that we perceive also in society, for its role over these forty years, and also today. We believe that there is increasing reason for mistrust, for the role of, for example, the Prosecutor's Office as a transmission belt from the Government -- the latest developments so corroborate it -- the role of the Attorney General's Office of the State and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, which, in addition, leads to the purgatory of those prosecutors who are not docile to the Government, as we have seen in the past few months. It is also by the use of the Administration of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office and the police to pursue, to spy on, to produce evidence against dissenting and critical people, including, by means of, the application of the Mordaza Law — which we do not understand how it is still in force, as there is, in the State Parliament, a majority against this law. [[Applause]] And this initiative also gives way to a fundamental debate about corruption, about that monster, that hydra of multiple heads, about what it is, as it manifests, how it transmuts, how it camouflages, how it fights. It is therefore a reflection on the political and economic system, which is intrinsically corrupt and unfair, with legislation, in addition, made to the extent of economic powers; on the forms of corruption in "a" or "b", on the official bulletins and on the network of State sewers, on the councils of ministers and on the boards of administration of the rotational gates, on corruption in the official offices, and also on corruption in the financial mafias that are hidden under that friendly denomination of lobbys, which is what they now call these mobs. Indeed, today, in these days and weeks, on today's very day, we are attending this endless parade of public prosecutors' declarations, which, as we know, is a party charged with corruption and which has about 1,000 public offices investigated or involved in cases; of them, 812 mayors or mayors — these are the positions of the People's Party. And, at the end of this proposal, we'd like to make some proposals, or at least a work plan, to give justice functions, and that prosecutor's office that you propose here, that anti-corruption prosecution. We think, for example, that you could investigate that theft, that legalized scam, that led to general economic policy decisions, for example, to give over 60 billion public funds to rescue the bank while people who had mortgages lost their homes. We would also like this fair prosecution, as the representative of the Socialist Party said, which should be, for example, to investigate — for example, because it seems to us corruption — the international militaristic and interventionist policy of the European Union and of the Spanish State — the photo of the Azores too — with participation, for example, in bombings from sovereign countries that feed those wars that now lead to the drama, for example, of the people who have been sheltered. It also investigates the role of the rotational doors in making decisions — changes of the law, again by means of it — in favour of private interests, as in the case of Ence; it investigates the policy of the Greek financial system, the energy monopoly that generates millionaire benefits to private companies and leaves on the way to thousands of victims, or, for example, that prosecutorship, that justice, opens the door to tax evasion, tax amnesties, tax havens, in which many of the popular party's friendly companies are so well moved. And we would also like to know who will investigate — if it is going to be that prosecution, that justice — the use of the prosecutor's office in the service of the interests of the Government and the People's Party, or the organized bands — because they are — dedicated to looting public money and managing elections — and that is a report by the Civil Guard. I want to finish with an appointment by a thinker, at least a guru of the most reactionary thought, professor of political science at Harvard, Samuel Huntington, who made a perfect description of this democratic capitalist system — between quotes — and corrupt: "Corruption can be considered a factor of modernization and economic progress, allowing, for example, to link the main players in the market to the result that those who invest decisively, even subordinating into their business projects." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u147	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado. Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be very brief, because I know that Mrs Santos is concerned about getting out more of the information piece than the rest of us are talking about, and simply to say that the People's Parliamentary Group is going to maintain its coherence in the position on the creation of a delegation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office in Galicia. And this for three questions. First, it must be said that it is absolutely false that there is no anti-corruption prosecution in Galicia, because the State Anti-Corruption Prosecutor has jurisdiction in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and the authorization or establishment of a delegation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor in Galicia depends solely on a decision of the Attorney General of the State. And the Attorney General of the State, under different governments, of different political colors, did not consider on any occasion that there were sufficient cases for the establishment of that delegation. Secondly, it is interesting that some group which strongly denounces alleged political powers in the Prosecutor's Office is the second time that it proposes to enter this Parliament in an autonomous decision by the Attorney General of the State. It is precisely because the People's Parliamentary Group, and the People's Party, believe in the separation of powers and the independence of the Prosecutor's Office — something that has been questioned today by other speakers in this House — we do not believe that this decision must be taken by politicians. We understand that the desirability or not of the establishment of a delegation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor in Galicia must be adopted by the Attorney General of the State and not by us politicians, who do not belong to us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when the general prosecutors of the State, both those appointed by the Socialist Party and those appointed by the People's Party, did not consider the delegation necessary, we agreed. And now that a State Attorney General agrees and that it seems convenient and appropriate to establish a delegation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office in Galicia, we also agree; also because the decision is not ours, it is solely the Attorney General of the State. Here we don't act like in the countries that you have as a model, which seek to incapacitate general state taxation when they say something that doesn't suit or dislikes the Government. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a prosecutor's decision. If the prosecutor so decides, we will support the creation of that delegation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office in Galicia. The Galician Union has already stated that it will make the human and material means necessary for its proper functioning. Mr President, if the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office had jurisdiction over crimes of injustice and slander, I am sure that I would have to create a delegation in this Parliament. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u150	Thank you. The truth is, I'm almost moved by this attack of dignity and pain that they experience here today. I understand them, because, of course, it must not be very pleasant all that they are living, though they resist to assume it. And it must be very hard to see in fronts, covers and covers, and starting newspapers, the radio, with all the issues that are living. It must be too hard for a political organization to live in the denial of what is a popular cry. They're surrounded, it's obvious, and then they don't know how to react or what to say. It's absolutely regrettable and we're not going to keep saying... reality is so painful, so clear. And really what is shameful is not to allude to countries that have nothing to do with what we're talking about in this House, which is rather pathetic, but, besides, the lack of smell of such a gross reality, so dramatic and so serious, that it costs so much public resources that then citizens suffer in their flesh, in social cuts, cuts in rights, health cuts, in education, in employment policies, in social policy; that, despite all this, they seem to have more to say, in a way that keeps people from having less political knowledge or being less informed. That speech of yours, gentlemen of the People's Party, beyond the people who have a blind faith in you, or who want to normalize corruption and buy your speech, because it hasn't gone much further. And we have to wait for time, that citizenship, of course, is wise. We're just going to tell them one more thing, after thanking them for the support of the opposition groups, who are aware of the situation we are also living here in Galicia -- I went forward to pronounce myself on the amendment of the PSdEG, because it was really very good, and the reflection of the BNG. We simply ask them one thing: for once they stand on the side of that general prosecutor you lie to. More than anything, because at the inauguration of the court building in Coruña, it was clear that Galicia needs an anti-corruption prosecutor. So, therefore, we agree. Why don't they vote in favour if we agree? If we agree and really have it so clear, and they fill their speeches with blows in their chest and they always have to talk about things that nothing has to do with not assuming their reality, they actually apply the story and start taking real action, they start to throw out the corrupt ones from their ranks and return the public money, they start to support the opposition initiatives, as much as they trouble them. In fact, I'm going to quote you one last step, that there's also nothing going on in a proposal from the United Confederal Group-We Can-In-Common We can also propose a reform project in the selection of prosecutors so that people like Maza are no longer at the front because of democratic dignity and urgency. We simply ask them to support them and apply the story in their ranks. And since they don't resign and we'll have to wait for citizens to dictate their decision, because at least they actually start to make proposals, vote and execute policies that really eliminate this big farm. Although — I repeat — the solution to this is that citizens finally put them out of institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilan, what do you want the word for? [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I didn't hear her. Let me look at point 3 and see what it says. [[Murmurs.]] I have to look at him. Man, one reaches so far but doesn't remember everything. It would be impossible. Then let's look at it, which is written for that. [[Pause.]] Yeah, if you can just tell me exactly what it is, I'll give you a voice for it. But exactly what is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u152	We'd like the expression to be removed from opening a delegation of the Public Prosecutor's Office for injuring and slandering in this House, because it affects not only the dignity of this parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u153	That's it! Got it, got it. That was a metaphor. Sorry! [[Protests.]] Quiet, quiet! Please, please! [[Strong murmurers.]] Let's see, please, silence, silence! I'm going to talk, I'm going to talk, because I'm the one with the competition in this case. I sincerely did not value an attack on the dignity of no group Sorry, sorry!, then you will speak to Mrs. Prado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understood that there are some expressions here that do bother a lot of people, that I also said it on one occasion. I think that's what Mrs. Prado meant, I think that's what she meant. Now, to Mrs Prado I can give you the floor to see if it's really the way I think it is, which I have interpreted. And if not, it can certainly be an attack on the dignity of a group. Then I wanted you to need that from me. [[Protests.]] Silence, please, silence! You've already spoken, Mrs. Vilan, now that you speak. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, I wasn't in that debate. The animal life... yes, it may be, but it's not now. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please, Mrs Prado, can you explain this because it is an important issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u154	Mr. President, I said exactly these words: "If the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office had jurisdiction over offences of abuse and slander, I am sure" — in my opinion — "that I would have to create a delegation in this House." I suppose, if anyone gets flattered, it's because he might say something inappropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u155	Silence! I got it. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. No, no, sorry! [[Protests.]] Let's see, the debate is over. I'm sorry, not that expression, sir, not that expression. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, that expression is an insult, that expression doesn't come here, it doesn't work, sir. I think we should all behave. I'm sorry, I think the debate is closed. Yes, I think I understood perfectly what we all meant. No one wanted to... I understand, and so I understand. [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's a prerogative given me by the Rules of Procedure. I understand that there is no attack on the dignity of any group. I understand, I understand. But no, I understood that's not the case. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It doesn't work. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the slate.]] Mr. Villares, if you ask me to speak for anything else, I can give it to you, but I think this matter is closed. I don't deny anyone's word, eh! Give a voice to Mr. Villares' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u156	First of all, we share the position expressed by Mrs Vilan, which affects not only her group but the whole of the House. And secondly, I would like to correct Mrs Prado, because the first paragraph of Article 215 of the Criminal Code states that it will be carried out on its own when the slander is directed against the public official, authority or agent of the public official on the facts relating to the exercise of his duties. And as a result, he already has the powers of the Attorney General's Office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u157	That's it, that's it! That is another debate. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for? Of course, it's just...! [[Laughter]] It's just that, of course, and after he comes... [[Strong murmurers.]] Let's see, let's close this. I think... please, sir, I don't think it's appropriate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've told him before and I don't want to call him in order for that. I don't like this expression, nor do I think anyone likes it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, please, please, I'm asking you not to use that expression. No, no, particularly I don't like it. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't like them addressing me like that. I don't like them. I don't tell anyone like that. At least no Member would do so. I don't like that expression, okay? So I don't want to call him in order for that. The debate is over. Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u158	To express that, in a debate in which this party has been called corrupt, charged — which is not technically accurate — that it has been insulted and seriously offended by a prosecutor who did his work independently, if he says that he is violating parliamentary courtesy by an absolutely innocent sentence, it seems to me out of place. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, in any case, since we are given a lesson in what the Prosecutor's Office can and cannot do, I would remind you of your lordship — the honourable Member — that it is protected by immunity and parliamentary inviolability. Because if I were not, surely many of the things they said against the People's Party Members of this House would not be in the air, they would be in the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u159	Thank you. Quiet, please. We continue. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the development by the Government of Galicia of a feasibility study on the rescue of the AP-9 motorway for its public management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u160	To this non-law proposal, the following amendments were tabled: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u161	To formulate the proposal, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u162	I'm going to talk about AP-9, I'm not going to talk about the previous subject, and I'm not going to say that PP loots, because today I don't want to be called in order or asked to withdraw. But I'm going to talk about a decision of the PP that supposes, I suppose, a looting of the Greek citizenship. And whoever makes decisions that suppose looting has a name that we can't say here. [[Applause]] When we talk about corruption, we also talk about these decisions. We believe that this decision, as it was on its day privatization at the friend price of AP-9, a sanitized infrastructure with public money previously, without possible competence, and as it was expected, was a collage without comparison possible, with infinite benefit and zero risk. That decision to sell cheap to a company, which happened to be a donor to the People's Party, we're paying the Welsh and Welsh every day, those that travel around and those that travel through this infrastructure for years and years. Because of that decision, the People's Party has not yet responded, nor has it been worthy here to apologize in parliamentary headquarters for one of the greatest attacks on citizenship, a robbery which mortgages our future as well. The accounts of the year 2016 once again offer the same panorama as in previous years. It covers EUR 138 million in taxes, and the company gains benefits, after taxes, of EUR 45 million; 1 out of every 3 euros of benefits after taxes, almost 1 out of every 2 before taxes. In 2015, the third part of the dividends that were distributed by the concessionaires throughout the state correspond to Audasa. That's the expression "we are giving it," the Greeks and the Greeks. The benefit rate was 46.48% in 2015, and 43.3% in 2016. This without counting that Audasa will rise by 1% in the next 20 years to pay for Rande's expansion works and Santiago's circumvaluation, despite the fact that these works will increase circulation in infrastructure and therefore more benefits. This infrastructure has the lowest number of employees per kilometer of the entire state: 0.37 employees per kilometer. While in the state it's 1.05. That's right, it's the dealership with the highest number of claims from all over the state, a real scandal. And please let no one take us for fools. This succulent business isn't because they found a company that manages the infrastructure well. No, it's just a gift from the People's Party. The general director of Audasa is still the same as when he was public: Andrés Muntaner, close friend of Mariano Rajoy. Why do we need good managers, if these, like those of the electric oligopolis, are the rainy benefits of the sky, stolen from the Greeks and the Greeks? And before these figures it's mandatory, it's necessary to value the ransom for the public as an option. That is why we cannot understand that the Greek Government does not have an official study of the cost of the ransom, of the feasibility of alternatives, taking into account the cost for the Union, for the State and for the users the tariff implications it has for the future. How are we going to debate here for or against a rescue if this study has not been done, a rigorous and official study of the costs and alternatives for the public rescue of AP-9? This study has been done by other administrations that rescued the public. Generalitat's study of 2014, before decision-making. Maybe they don't want to do the study, it's not gonna be that we realize it's too obvious that, in fact, you with your position are giving millions every year to a company, millions coming out of the pockets of citizenship. We're very afraid that a business that has a margin like the one Audasa has year after year, one in every two euros of benefit, has a margin for that ransom, and also leaves to improve the conditions for users and users. I'd like to hear from the People's Party if they deny the reasons why they do. That is, how do we achieve the goal of having a well-functioning infrastructure, being in good condition and being as cheap as possible for users and users, and could even be free? How can we achieve that goal? Can it be the rescue to the solution? For that, the study we propose today on this initiative must be conducted. How can we debate without data or on the basis of data such as those given by the Central Government, the Spanish Government, in a shameful and anti-democratic act when it vetoed the processing of the Law for the transfer of AP-9, when it calculated the ransom at 4,300 million euros, simply by multiplying the fees for the years to be granted? That's a joke to all of us. We therefore ask that, within three months, an AP-9 rescue feasibility study be prepared for the public, taking into account its economic cost, the economic value of the rescue by the Galician Union, a feasibility study and its tariff impact on the public and the alternatives to its financing. We believe that this is a reasonable request and that it could be the basis for an objective and honest debate on whether or not the public ransom is convenient. For what? For the benefit of Galician citizenship. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u163	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to applying the Mordaza Law, the People's Party also wants us to put bites on Members and Members here. And, of course, we won't let him, we'll tell him the truth in his face as often as he needs it. There will be no bite in this Parliament. [[Applause]] We are debating the topic of AP-9 today and we are doing it again because of the People's Party, because it has vetoed the parliamentary process of the law passed by this Parliament. If there were no such veto in Madrid, that law would have its way. That law spoke precisely of the two issues in the debate, which are the transfer of AP-9 and also the rescue by the state — not Galician on the part of Galicia — of the concession. But the reality is that this decision was made, and besides you were submitted and served and taken hold of it, defended it and justified it; something that is a shame. It was, of course, the day of shame that this agreement was adopted on 13 December 2016 in the State Parliament. In fact, we have to make these transfer and rescue decisions to end with injustice, fraud and aggravating this situation that we have suffered with AP-9, to end with a scam that has lasted too long. So far it has not been possible to do so because of the refusal, because of the imposition of the parties which ruled alternately in the Government of the State, which were the ones who checked when there was this debate — which has been held on many occasions in the Parliament of the State — they have seen that this decision has been taken. And you're now inventing a story that was because of the opposition groups. They'll tell me! Well, we think there are more than justified reasons -- as we have said here on numerous occasions -- both for the transfer, because it is a vital infrastructure for the vertebration of the territory and for mobility in our country, and also for public management, after these forty years that already go from policy, fraud and theft. And there are more than justified reasons, firstly, for the millionaire benefits generated so far by the grant of more than EUR 2,200 million and 740 million in which the benefits generated from 1993 are estimated at which it began to be viable. So it's over forty years of cashing, kicking the country, making more and spending less, with benefits that were estimated last year, net profits, at 46 million euros. And all of this welcomes and treats the governments of turn, and in particular the Government of the People's Party, who has approved these unfair price cuts, which have increased by 36% since 2010 to date. So a mine, a wire for the concessionary company, for Audasa, and also a wire of income for the state, because, although, indeed, that sale in 2003 was a sale at a balance price, at a friend price, I taxed EUR 1,586 million for the state, and also via tax payments — corporate tax and VAT — the State also collects hundreds of millions of these infrastructure. And it's taxes that are paid in Madrid, that we pay, that we pay all the Welsh people and that the company pays in Madrid, that our country does not therefore benefit. And, above all, we suffer that decision from the People's Party, that sentence thirty-one more years of concession and millionaire benefits, when the highways that are of the same time as the AP-9 will be free within four years. Another one faces therefore, another further aggravation because the concessions of Andalusia, Burgos and the Mediterranean did not expand as it happened with AP-9 here. So we understand that the People's Party is against the transfer and against the rescue because it has to defend the interests of friends, but also because at the moment there is at stake a question that leads them not to support these initiatives: it is that a new ballad is being managed to sell the concession to those votre funds that speculate with these infrastructures and this business. Therefore, the BNG will support this initiative. In any case, we think that a serious and rigorous study must be done, and not that study which is a joke that the Ministry of Development has made to justify the non-resaltation of the concession, which were these accounts of peaks, shovels and chandeliers. So we have to do a serious study taking into account the costs and also the benefits generated by the highway. In any case, we think of a nuance, that the ransom costs don't have to be made by Galicia, but they would have to be done by the state, as there were, by the way, those 3,500 million for the rescue of those ruined Madrid radials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u165	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Once again the AP-9, the freeway of the Atlantic, renews its protagonistship in this House. A protagonist, no doubt worthy, and a cause for permanent recognition, of regret over the circumstances in which he is living, which involve him and claim him, of recognizing his relevance to Galicia, of regretting what he has ceased to be, of claiming the necessary initial relevance in favour of the Greeks and the Greeks. The relevance of AP-9 is collected in this House's Diary of Sessions through multiple demonstrations and recognitions of Members and Members over time. The highway receives and distributes the largest traffic density in Galicia, located in the Atlantic Strip, where it resides around 60% of Galician population and where it develops around 70% of Galicia's economic activity. It connects five of Galicia's seven most populous cities. It therefore plays a central role in Galician mobility. But we have also emphasized its relevance when we help it to play a decisive role in the integration and articulation of the Welsh urban system, when we say that it manages and generates road communication systems, when we consider it a fundamental instrument of social and economic vertebration in Galicia. It has AP-9 our recognition and appreciation of its repeatedly expressed relevance in this House. The same way we found and regretted what it was no longer. And it's no longer a permanent opportunity of growth for Galicia, a valuable element added to users, families and businesses; it's no longer at the service of the Greeks and the Greeks to serve other interests at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks; it's no longer an opportunity for Galicia to be an exclusively economic opportunity for a concessionaire. We recognize the relevance of the AP-9 motorway, we regret what it has been, the change of role in Galicia's prejudice and we claim to break up with this AP-9 management model, in which the Welsh and the Greek always lose and the concessionaire always wins. We claim to release AP-9 from that corset so that it will stop being a burden on the Greek social and business fabric and become an incentive and an opportunity for growth. And in this context of recognition of the relevance of AP-9, of perversion of the final targets that are proper for you when changing the recipient of benefits, let's remember that you changed as beneficiaries to the Greeks and to the Greeks by a concessionaire. In this context, Parliamentary groups have undoubtedly been able to adopt a joint position to claim the solution to the distortion that causes the current management model in the Atlantic Highway. A solution that passes through a different, different management model whose epicenter and decision-making capacity should be fully located in Galicia. We demand the transfer of ownership and competence from the AP-9 motorway to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And we have made the claim in the institutional field that is his own, the state domain, as holder of the AP-9. From the Socialist Group we tabled an amendment to addendum with two paragraphs that aim to address two issues. An imminent question, in which we propose to open a negotiation with the concessionaire to achieve a reduction in rates based on bonuses that take into account the schedules and even the user's travel frequencies. And another part of the amendment, also of addition, in which we propose to move forward on those legal, technical and economic issues that will inevitably be present in the negotiation of the transfer of AP-9 and which must mark the strategy of the parliamentary group as well as of the Galician Union. For our part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u167	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. With this non-law proposal you follow with the same strategy that is working with throughout this legislation, which is nothing other than trying to confuse and deceive the Greeks, well generating noise around the unanimous request of the Transfer Law, which the Voice Lord of the BNG follows, and there is another new law of Parliament, or either confusing attempting to wear out the Government of the Union by asking him for actions from a state competitive infrastructure and asking for these actions, or also confusing the transfer of AP-9 with the elimination of fees. And all of this is remixed with some innuendo or lies about cohabitation with companies or conditions of competition that are intervened by the General Intervention of the State and that they have all the controls when the contest comes out. In any case, I understand that you like reading and political strategy, but little helps citizens and I don't think they're buying citizens with their votes. I honestly don't think that's the constructive way. And besides, I'm saying that I'd be drafted with this spirit because I think in an ambiguous or confusing way they're trying to confuse. They speak of rescue for the public of a public infrastructure in the state, the competence of Development — which has a concession, but is a self-sustainment road — and they call for the economic rescue on the part of the Union. This really — I say the non-law proposal — we do not understand it, and we would like to make it clear and remind ourselves that, at the moment — we hope that with this law in Parliament it will not be so in the future — this AP-9 is a central government's competition infrastructure. And it should be to this general administration of the State to which the feasibility study is intended or, if so, to pay a ransom, but not to ask — as it says — for the economic value of the rescue by the Galician Union. We understand that asking for the money from the Greeks to pay the ransom for a Development Grant is not our option and it's not going to be to put hundreds or billions of public euros to pay a private company. That tide option won't be the one with this group. He's also talking about quality of service claims. And I want to tell you that this group shares the complaints of many citizens when the operation and maintenance of the highway is not done properly. And that's why the Galician Union complained in the past, will continue to complain in the future to the responsible administration or to the Audasa company when the concessionaire does not put the means or does not do the service properly, as it is happening, for example, now with the works around the Rande bridge. And that's why we give the importance to this joint Committee on Development and Cooperation. The last meeting of June 13 has already advanced the reinforcement of measures to prevent these jams, eliminating traffic restrictions. And from June 1 will be reopened to traffic the closed cars of access to AP-9 from the Morrazo corridor, which will remain fully operational until the end of August. He's also talking about this bullying about the themes of the beaches. And, of course, when you hear the amendment from the PSOE asking that the Board negotiate with Audasa a reduction in the fees, when it is not our competition, it is a self-trained competition from Development, it would be foster who could negotiate with Audasa... but, in addition, those who approved, under the Government of Zapatero and with Mr. Blanco, the 1% increase for twenty years was you. I mean, what you guys are talking about is asking now, forgetting what you've done in the last thirty years, if that's the strategy, because it really looks a little funny! Because, in addition, this government is the only one that can put on the table that will achieve a significant reduction in the taxes paid by the Greeks, because it was able to get those nearly 7 million euros that we pay every year for the fees, to free the fees, to pay the Welsh with our taxes, those that go through the AP-9 and those that don't have a car, and also because they pay with their taxes those 6 million euros a year. We've paid 70 million euros. And with the agreement that this government has reached in the coming days, we will have published this royal decree that will save us 180 million euros to the Greeks. What a difference of focus: a government that is working for the Greeks to pay less and save 180 million euros in the next few years, and the tide proposing that with the money of the Greeks pay a private company for the rescue of a Development Grant! These are the two visions. As I tell you, we believe from the People's Group that in recent years there has been great progress, especially in these agreements with this bilateral Commission between Development and Union in improving the management of AP-9. We're going to continue working as a group and also the government that we support so that ownership is autonomous as soon as possible, because we understand that there can be a better management of this nearest highway. But, frankly, all that is demagogy and trying to confuse the Greeks is not the way we can help Galicia and, therefore, we will not support this non-law proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u169	Thank you, Mr. Martin Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u170	There's no noise. You have a cocoa on your head, Mr. Fernández Prado, which doesn't fit. Let's see, we're not asking for rescue from the Galician Union; first clarification. Please don't read the initiative. We are asking that Junta prepare a cost study and all alternatives. No, of course, no, I have to pay the state. But the study to claim the ransom, trusting that there is a transfer, I have to do it to Junta, if it really is a government that cares about the well-being of citizens and citizens. Because whoever's paying every day is those citizens, they're paying AP-9. And that's why you have to have a study to be able to rebaptize. You're not here to think about whether you rescue him or not. You're saying that not just having a rigorous study about what the ransom would cost and all the impacts it has on pricing and users; point one. You have a pretty important mental cocoa. You refuse to even do that study. I was talking about the Tide wanting the Greeks to assume... No, no, it's just that the Greeks are already assuming that cost, every day, every time they use that infrastructure. And the responsibility that the Greeks have to pay the most expensive taxes in the state, after they have cleaned up with public money that infrastructure, is a decision of the People's Party. So you're really putting yourself on the side of the company. You're very comfortable, letting Audasa, year after year, do nothing, without spending a penny, be winning one out of every two euros we pay in the payout booths. You're on that side. Yes, sir, that within three months a study of the viability of the AP-9 ransom is prepared; of course it is. And I have to do it to the Galician Union; of course you have to do the study because even if it's State competence, it's a problem for the Greeks and the Greeks, right? So it should be a problem that concerns them. Not you. You did come to try to confuse. So you can see which side you are on. You came here to defend that the company continues to earn millions of profits without even making a calculation of what the ransom can cost. Because you might take a surprise that the ransom costs 400 million euros, and maybe it's an advantageous operation for the citizens, or we might conclude that it's 3,000 million euros and it doesn't make up for us. Maybe we're living in the best of the worlds; I have my doubts. And you're refusing to have data to face a debate, the basis of the debate, nothing else; that's what you're denying. Read the initiative well. And I'm telling you that whoever has to run with the public rescue is the State, that's our position. Yes, sir, what you have to prepare today's study and worry about what happens to the Greeks and to the Greeks is the German Government. If we agree on that, I've made the amendments in your voice. If we agree that the state is the one who has to run with the ransom, that the BNG has just said, we agree, the Socialist Party, you too. And if you agree that starting from that premise we need to have a study to know what it would cost and study all the alternatives, as was done in this study here, until you took into account the labor situation of the workers, a previous study was made to rescue. If we agree to make the amendments in you they want and we can agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u171	Thank you. All right, so talk. Excuse me, about the amendments, do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u172	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u173	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of the necessary managements to prevent the replacement of the Sikorsky S-76 C+ helicopters, known as Fishing I and Fishing II, by the Dauphin 365 belonging to the Union of Galicia in 2005
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u174	The next non-law proposal is from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Dolores Toja. Two amendments were tabled to this one: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u175	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. The initiative that we have brought from the Socialist Group this afternoon to the full could be added to the long list of initiatives that our group has already brought and that make manifest the inability to manage public resources by Government Feijóo. We are talking today about the Coast Guard Service and the current consequences and management of the Sea Council regarding this service. We refer not only to the current management, but to the situation that had already begun in 2005, when Mr López Veiga, Counsellor of the Sea at that time, bought by 27 million the two aircraft: Fisheries I and Fisheries II, which, as you know, have bases in Vigo and Celero, respectively. In 2012, after they were bought in 2005 without taking into account the depreciation time, 13 million were damaged. And so it was left in the hands of Inaer — a company — the functioning of the Coast Guard Service and a service contract was made for 45 million euros. They sold themselves even though they were bought for the purpose of having the public ownership — and they didn't have the previous ones, who were rented to a company — and sold themselves despite the fact that it was always considered that the means of rescue should be owned by the Administration. That is, in 2005 they earn 27 million, in 2012 they sell for 13, without even taking account of the amortization period, and they start to pay more for a service of 9 million, compared to the 9 million that came to pay earlier. And we're still out of aircraft. What then was the object of this sale? Was it cost-saving? Because if it went for cost savings it is clear that it was not so and that the object of this sale was not reached. A sale which, in addition, was severely criticised by the Board of Auditors, which indicated that the legally established procedures were omitted and that it was also carried out with an exceptional procedure rather than following the legal procedures. [[Applause]] And as a result of that management we have come to the present day, to this day, that in October concludes the current contract with Inaer and that consequently the Sea Council has just launched a new contest for 40 million, and it happens that this contest becomes deserted. What it means is that the Council doesn't find a company that assumes the provision of this service. This is an absolute lack of foresight on the part of the Council of the Sea, which, as we see it, comes at the time when the current contract will be completed and does not have a company to handle this service, when — we remember — it sold the aircraft in 2012. This is an irresponsibility on the part of the Council to the importance of a service as the safety of seafarers. So from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we criticize this management, we talk about government Feijóo's inability to manage public resources, and we talk about chapuceira and fearful management. And at all of this, the Council — as we said — now launches a consultation, a consultation to ask the market what the cost of the service should be. And we asked him why he now launches this consultation and why he did not, for example, at the beginning of the invitation to tender. Because, as stated in Directive 2014/24 of the European Union, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement, in Article 40, Preparation, states that: "Before a procurement procedure is initiated, the adjudicator powers may carry out market consultations with a view to preparing for recruitment and inform economic operators of their plans and their procurement requirements" I repeat, before initiating a procurement procedure. To that end, the adjudicator powers may, for example, seek or accept advice from independent experts or authorities. But I say one very important thing, that you can't falsify competition afterwards and that it doesn't lead to violations of the principles of non-discrimination and transparency. It is important to note that Article 40 of this Directive states "before the procedure for procurement begins". On the other hand, this consultation that throws the Sea Council to the market, what is it?, a consultation because you don't know what the cost of the service is? So when he was asked from the various opposition groups and from the Socialist Group, he was criticized for the high amounts being paid and told us not, that it was fair that cost, based on what criterion did he do it, if he is now asking what is the cost of the service? One of two, or you don't know what the cost of this service is, then the council is lost and so you ask the market, which is a total incompetence, or whether you know what the cost of the service is, but you're making a tailor-made suit to some company, with which, once again, we're in front of a government that puts above the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks the interests of an entrepreneur, and in this case with a very serious issue as is the subject of security. This directive, which allows the Council to make this consultation, in Article 41 also provides that, in the event of such prior participation in the process, the adjudicator may take appropriate measures to ensure that the participation of that candidate or tenderer does not distort competition. In this regard, we would be grateful if you could tell us, in your intervention time, what concrete measures are being taken, because in the consultation which the Council of the Sea does not provide for the specific measures it will carry out in order to ensure the Community principles of non-discrimination and transparency, as well as the non-restriction or limitation of competition, with the object, logically, that, if you are making that suit to the extent to which we say, you should remember that the European Union directive itself does not allow it. But there's another important issue, because this government formally says you're worried about pemes, but when it comes to competing with public administrations, we finally find ourselves out of pemes. Finally, the more they talk about open processes, public competitions, the more amicable capitalism is applied, the more you know, they are knowledgeable, and they are an exponent of a national example. We must not forget and set a fairly recent example, in which you yourselves have had to step back and respond to the request of employers' associations and of the various political groups, which have led them back in the macro-competition to clean up autonomous administrative buildings. From the Socialist Group, we will demand transparency, which facilitates free competition, which guarantees the management of public resources within legality. For all these reasons, because of this inability they are showing, this absolute and manifest inability on the part of the Council in relation to the management of public resources, because it is playing with the safety of the people of the sea, because it is a horrendous and fearful management, therefore this initiative is presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Because, as we said, if it was an operation to save costs, they didn't save costs. It is not understood why prior consultation was not made on the market. And it's not understood that the recruitment leaves the Welsh peas out. But there's one last reason, and maybe it'll be the weightier reason, which brings us to present this initiative, which is safety for the Greeks and the Greeks in the sea, because we're talking about a security service. The profession of the sea, as you know, is very hard, they're clear, with a high index of paternality and which implies spending many seasons away from the family. We know that the means of rescue do not prevent, do not prevent, accidents do, we know, but it is true that, in the case of such accidents, they prevent human losses. Surely they remember and know the case that happened less than a week ago in the Out Sea, in the hinterland, when a man was bathing and the oil supply did not allow him to return to the ground; he brought it inside, out and did not allow him to return. It was like this for about 40 minutes, until at the end a local police officer and a civilian protection member were thrown into the water and saved his life. This story ended well, the rescue service was coming but at that time it didn't come. It was very critical that we didn't have Liris' rescue service there. I'm sure you all know, no doubt, someone who's lost his life at sea, or have some family or someone. When this happens in the coastal villages, the fact is that the village is forever marked and that it never recovers from it; it is like a wound that remains open and never closes at all. So with people's safety, they don't play, and with this incompetent management, they're not putting everything they should put in so that this risk doesn't exactly occur in the rescue service. We understand that since the Government Group, the means are put in place for the Greek rescue to be a priority theme, and it is not managed sharply, as it is being done. On the other hand, and already to finish, in relation precisely to the S76Cplus, there is a Dauphin in Viveiro, there is no S76Cplus, and Babcock has no commitment to using a specific type of aircraft. The fact that Dauphin 365 is there may lead you to think that if you want to replace the S76 precisely by that Dauphin, which would lead us to a totally absurd situation — since there you are, Mr Crespo, there you are — that you have precisely some means that have been wasted here in obsolete, with which is the explanation of our initiative. Today we hear a lot of debates, including the appearance of the Education Counsellor, and the PP spokesperson said two things that brought me a lot to my attention. He said government management has to be predictable and normal. As for the foreseeable, it is clear that the management of the Sea Council here was not predictable, it did not take into account the consequences of the sale of aircraft and now we are. October 31st...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u178	...... yes, finished— completes the contract and there are no aircraft. And with respect to normality, we understand that it is already becoming normal that the interests of businessmen are placed above the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Yes, Mr. Crespo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u180	Good afternoon. It was mentioned in the previous initiative, with regard to AP-9, of the adjudicatory company's yarn. We're talking about this maritime rescue initiative and also about yarn, and we're talking about public resources serving private companies. Only the seaman in Galicia is something transcendent. It's the nation with more miles of coastline and more shipwreck. It has a fishing fleet of the most important in the European Union. 85% of the ships have less than 15 meters in length, and a very important part of them even less, and with 1 or 2 crew members. I mean, it's more than justified the existence of a maritime rescue service. And if we add to this that next to our backs there is a maritime traffic of the most intense in the world, with a very important part of merchants with dangerous goods, the justification is that there is no more to say. At the end of the 1980s, a popular cry asking for greater measures and means of salvation made the public service search and rescue created. After the tragedy of the Prestige, the catastrophe that I have assumed resulted in an increase in the means of rescue. At the same time, he bought two larger boats, the Sebastián of Ocampo and Brother García Nodal, and two helicopters. And at the organic level, Galician Coast Guard Service was created. In 2005 he bought these two helicopters for 27 million euros, as was said here. He published at that time that they were aircraft with the highest allowances and suitable for the Greek coasts. They came to be called Fishing 1 and Fishing 2 these helicopters, based on Vigo and Viveiro, property of the Union, which decides to privatize what their operation and maintenance is, and helps Inaer these issues. He is also suing Inaer in 2009 and 2010, and in May 2011, without completing the previous contract, eight months later he decides to terminate it; he says he has to go to another contract because this is expensive. In the meantime it terminates the contract, the company continues to provide the service. There's a bunch of irregularities about this, just read the report of the Board of Auditors to try to do a little follow-up, and it's the tip of the icerberg. He rejudged Inaer in October 2012, and decided to sell the helicopters — despite the fact that it was established that the depreciation period of the helicopters was twenty years old and at the height of 2012 they were only seven—because it turns out that they were beginning to be obsolete, it seems, and they had to be sold as soon as they had a price. So, what cost 27 million, seven years later, was sold for 13 in an urgent contest, and the company that buys them has to undertake to operate them for 5 years. So, we found that in 2005 it's 27 million euros. Works in 2009 are 7.5 million euros. In 2012 they sell for half of what they cost, 13, and the price of surgeries is 8.9, although they then make a discount. It's pretty complicated to follow up on this whole story. What is clear is that we've just had 2 aircraft sold with 27 million and a price to operate them, not to have ships and pay 37.5 million for 5 years of operation. The truth is that anyone who just adds up and stays, this is business... let's go! No one is able to prove that it benefits the Administration in this operation, and it is evident that both on the topic of the ships, Silveira, which is the owner of the Earth to Ours, is benefited, and it is evident that here, with these numbers, the business for Inaer is spectacular. Well, we found ourselves getting him back out of the contest, he's going to end the period of adjudication, and we'll meet again in the same way. There's no company to take care of. We've found that we don't have helicopters, we have a desert competition, with which the operation is already clear: the Union will have to increase the price or negotiate ad hoc with the company a price to take charge of the service and not be deserted, since we're talking about maritime rescue. The BNG seems shocking to us. This is scurantism, zero transparency, procedure questioned by the Board of Auditors, lacks studies that assess or certify that there is some kind of savings in this operation. And what is clear is that they are very obvious interests of the People's Party for facilitating the business and profits to concessional companies, both Silveira and Inaer. Instead of public money that serves to provide a quality public service, they are to fatten the results account of friendly companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u182	And corruption is not just putting your hand in the box; corruption is also using the DOG to benefit friendly companies at the expense of the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, which is what the People's Party is doing systematically: using the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks to benefit from the business of the friends. That's why the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u184	...—Finished, President—proposed an amendment which asks for nothing more than public service, public ships, operation and maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u185	Thank you. You know the amendment, thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u186	Thank you very much, President. The subject we're exposing here has a lot more depth and a lot more trouble than you're moving. Obviously, the issue of security and the subject of service to be guaranteed is an important part, but behind all this there are other important parts. We're talking about Inaer or we're talking about Babcock, which has been more or less the same for some time now, which is by chance the same company that has the concessions and the biggest investment of the Rozas aerodrome, this famous aerodrome of our new 4.0 industry. There is a direct relationship between both sides, a direct relationship that is highlighted by many issues, which detect many irregularities in the processes that have already been explained by the other groups and in which I am not going to sink any more, apart from not having much translation, because it is said that the investment that is made on such aircraft -- aircraft that can have a useful life of around thirty years -- cannot be amortized because in twenty years they would become obsolete doesn't make much sense, most of all when investments are made and the final result will not fit for anything. In that issue, and without entering that kind of question, those helicopters paid with public money are in the hands of a company with its own interests, and the good use of them cannot be guaranteed. In fact, so much so that right now it's one of the old Dauphin bases and not the helicopter that would have to be doing that service right now. In 2012, the General Labour Confederation filed a complaint before the Inaer Labour Inspectorate, which subsequently brought a criminal record for alleged irregularities in the working conditions of employees and employees and the lack of training, as well as to investigate the reasons for the high weakness of this company. In November 2010, the Official Civil Aviation Pilot College denounced Inaer to the State Air Safety Agency (EASA) for failing to fulfil its obligations to train crews in the prevention of occupational risks. Overwhelmed to this last, the Spanish Union of Pilots and Airlines (SEPLA) reported following the accident of two Bell 212 de Inaer, in September 2011, that between 2006 and 2011 a total of 20 crew members killed in helicopter accidents of this company were recorded. It was the best company to give you this concession! That was clear. Last year 2016, police officers from the National Police Corps had access to Inaer's headquarters for the alleged bonding of the company in a plot of corruption that could affect several contracts signed by Mercantil. The Rozas aerodrome, Lugo, has been hosting since 2014 a drone base that has hosted the first test of an army drone, confirming the military uses that the United States previously has. Also with Babcock. Equally, airworthiness tests were carried out here for the Searcher II drones, which also have military use. Rozas will finally be the seat of a civil industrial park dedicated to the development of unmanned aircraft that will exploit Indra and Inaer thanks to important public funding. This is the fish that bites the tail. I don't know where it's gonna end, but, of course, it looks bad. It looks worse than keeping these aircraft and ensuring the Coast Guard Service with these helicopters than we're talking about. The German Government has always refused to acknowledge that the Rosas facilities would have military use, pointing out that they would only have civilian targets. They had previously denounced the AGE Group, on several occasions, these situations, pointing out that the funds would be used for the development in Rozas of unmanned aircraft, drones, for the Army, turning this aerodrome into a paramilitary or military facility. What we're trying to say with all this is that one can't do such a twisting manipulation and use of public funds for aircraft that are to ensure the active safety of seafarers, and of citizenship in general, and that it's always coming back... this would be a turning door if it were supposed to be true what's being exposed here. It's worse than that. Of course, there will have to be much deeper on this subject. Plus, we fully agree with the initiative that transferred the PSdeG. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u187	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u188	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament do not know that last Saturday we had a round table at Laxe on safety at sea where we were the four groups of the House: Mrs Carmen Santos, Mrs Toja, Mr Mini and myself. After that round table, I came here today with a perfectly assumed plan B, knowing that after that table Mrs. Toja would withdraw the motion because it was clear there that the rescue was in good hands. He didn't take her away, and I said: don't take her away because that's about taking a motion... but what do you do? Self-restraint and terrible kindness to request part. And I say: we are going to have a very simple debate. But no, come here and keep a certain tone of cliché, we could say; chrispation, not violence. So I'm going to start my exhibition by telling you first: to avoid possible exaltations, we're going to vote that yes. To reassure you, we'll vote for it. Why? Because, indeed, it is necessary to ensure safety at sea. But, Mrs. Toja, after the table the other day you keep holding that the goal of this motion is to improve the safety of seafarers? I have my doubts. It seems to me that here, after listening to En Marea and listening to the BNG, there's a clear intention of a pseudo-ideological and very programmatic debate where what you want is to bring the burning to your sardine to, in front of the sea audience, say, "Watch out for these." They're so corrupt they steal even in the helicopters. And the obvious proof is that you mix the helicopters with the cleaning of public buildings, and I'd really not be surprised if we ended up cleaning such tall public buildings with helicopters, but it has nothing to do with one thing. After you stay calm because we're going to vote that yes, I want to tell the people of the sea, although they already know it, that they stay calm, for while ruling the People's Party at Galicia's board the safety at sea will remain very, very safe. If not, you tell me, if it's not for the purpose of safety, what could be the objective of this initiative? Well, it can be quietly demagogy or it can be bad faith. And why demagogy? How do you mix a contest with a non-functioning service? The service works perfectly, and the contest is there. It might also be bad intentions because you're saying that the service will stop working, and the service will work all the time. This shows a total ignorance of the situation. First, an administrative ignorance. I considered you, Mrs. Toja, with your commendable ability to curious and investigate in the management of the Board, capable of reaching — through the high degree of transparency of the Board itself — this document entitled: Prayer of particular technical prescriptions. The block people don't think they have the same goal, but you, which is off the coast of the sea... this document is from May 2017. Here is the demand for the conditions, very clear, very clear, of how the adjudication of the service will be avoided; and the service will be measured with a single objective: that it works perfectly and that the people of the sea have no danger after the accidents. You also show a lack of knowledge of how the service works. Of course, you ruled, and in 2009, when the People's Party comes to the Union, it finds that the helicopter contract is out of date. And what does the People's Party do? It makes it work immediately and all helicopters work. What difference does it make? This is important, Mrs. Toja, with what difference? He told me to you because the blockmen didn't want the Council. They had to take it from you because they were finally sharing it and they played it to you. What's the difference? That with the People's Party helicopters operate with a minimum of 10 minutes, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. This is the big difference. While the secretary-general who was then in the Bipartite had to confess twice, first, that there had been five days in 2008 that had been without a helicopter service. [[Applause]] And another, that for six months there was only one helicopter. This has been said by the technical secretary general of yours. I don't want to reproduce here other little names of sad memories for the sailors, but there are two very clear ones in which the neglects of the Bipartite were notorious. Finally, I want to reassure you, Mrs. Toja, there will be no substitute for the Sikorskys for the Dauphin for a reason: because this beg forbids it. This beg prevents it because the Dauphin do not have the ability to take off with the five tons that demand it. This is important to read it in administrative proceedings. If we don't walk around with fools and blind people, and we fall into prevarication as well as desisting society, and we can even fall into corruption. Nothing else, because I think I'm out of time. Thank you for these 42 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u190	We're going to vote for you, but please don't fool anyone. The Rescue Service is perfectly tied to October 31st, and with this please there will be companies that will do it. Companies that will be friends, will be enemies, but what they're asked to do is to be efficient and, if it can be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u192	...that nobody drowns. And, by the way, gentlemen of the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u194	...the helicopters become obsolete every time before. Even washing machines and fridges came up with a 20-year-old obsolescence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u195	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u196	...and now ten. So imagine, with the technical advances of the helicopters, what's needed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u197	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u198	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u199	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] I just don't have a word to answer. I hardly have a word to answer. First. There's a self-amendment because it's very difficult to adapt to the pace with which the PP is heading in this Council of the Sea, so there's a self-amendment. [[Applause]] No, no, that adds the consultation, etc. Yes, Mr. Crespo, you've had your time. What I'm going to remind you is what was said in the middle of the day. Look, it's been talking about electricity, and the PP is clearly in favour of companies and against consumers. We're talking about polluting emissions: laxity with companies and prejudice to the population set. It's about self-employed people: fiscal amnesty for those who have funds abroad and there's no support for self-employed people. Guard the coast. We're already seeing what they're doing: interests for a company, not for the Greeks and the Greeks, and for the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks. They say they rule for the Greeks, but it's very difficult to govern when they have those opposing interests. I have no doubt that there will be companies carrying the Coast Guard service. What we're telling them is that you already know what the company is going to be, they're already making that suit tailored to that company. You said here: there will be company. Of course there will be company! But look, remember: lack of foresight from the Council of the Sea. And they don't have a company that can cover this service on October 31st. Right now the situation is that they have the desert contest, that's the situation. Show me the leaflet you want, but right now the situation is that you have the desert contest. Are they making a consultation? Let's see what they're answering in that query. This is an irresponsibility by the Sea Council. And then you talk the way, because if you talk the way, you don't talk about the background, and the bottom is you buy it for 27 in 2005. It is sold in 2012 for 13 despite the period of depreciation. It's not the same as a washing machine or a fridge as an aircraft. The aircraft have overhauls, which are conditioning, yes. And they're going to pay 9 million instead of 2 million. [[Applause]] That's right. Moreover, as indicated by the Board of Auditors, the procedures laid down by law have been omitted. And it should be noted that a procedure is exceptional, rather than following the appropriate procedures. On the other hand, thanks a lot for the block amendment, which we're going to consider, and thanks a lot for the support you think you're going to do for our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. No, it's over now. She finished, she was in her time but finished. Then the debate is over. He said he accepted the BNG amendment. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and fifteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the improvement of the regulatory framework governing the crime of usurpation of immovables and the request to the Delegation of the Government and the Procurator's Office for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement on this matter, as well as the action to be taken in those cases where the occupants are families at risk of social exclusion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u202	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u203	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a non-law proposal that seeks to solve the problem that arises when a crime is committed. An offence consisting of the usurpation of the legitimate property of an immovable. A crime that has several derivatives. On the one hand, we can talk about a crime that carries out organized crime groups, which detect empty floors, and, after taking possession illegally, they trade and speculate with these floors, generating situations of insecurity and conflicts with the rest of the neighbors who live in the same building. It's a serious crime; it's an organized crime. Last week, in Commission 3rd, we reached a parliamentary agreement which was not supported by all the groups representing this House, but we do want with that agreement to combat the mobs, these mobs of organized crime. Well, I hope I can also reach an agreement today in order to speed up the judicial process to recover the usurped private property. He said there were several derivatives of this crime. There is another drift, which is the usurpation of real estate, but as a slight crime, which can be used — real estate — by people in a situation of social vulnerability and which have no opportunity to access a decent housing. And there are also other cases that are those that do not use occupation to solve a precarious economic situation or lack of housing, but rather make the occupation a social protest and use these empty buildings for other purposes, such as meeting spaces or centers for pseudocultural purposes, and even to carry out economic activities without any kind of administrative subjection, without licenses and no high in the corresponding social security or farm schemes. Well, today we present a non-law proposal that seeks to respond to these problems caused by the illegal occupation of housing, against the will of its owners, and in it we propose mechanisms to ensure respect for the rights of the owners and to ensure that the recovery of housing is as quickly as possible and always within the framework of the law. We are proposing a series of legislative amendments to state-level laws with competence in the Congress of Deputies — here we are talking about organic laws. These are legislative changes that would give legal support, reinforcing the performance of security forces and bodies and also of the courts of justice. With these measures, we would be able to take the precautionary measures for the immediate return of the owner of the property and the urgent enjoyment of the property and that he did not have to wait for a sentence to be given to the usurper. Also, since we are faced with a slight crime, that this is through the rapid judicial procedure, and therefore, instead of a long judicial process, that in some cases goes to three or four years, that the owner of the property is seen restored his right to private property as soon as possible, through quick trial. And since we are aware that these legislative changes take their time, we consider it appropriate to introduce a point 2 to request an agreement between the Government Delegation and the Prosecutor's Office to ensure that police attestations are focused on speedy trial processing, and the Prosecutor's Office also calls for processing by this procedure, along with the corresponding precautionary measures directed to the immediate eviction of the occupants. This is already being done in the Community of Madrid — I see that someone is making it funny — and there are other communities where this is already being done. And, in addition, they are recommendations from different valdories of the people of the different autonomous communities and even the defender of the state people, that is, of Mrs. Soledad Becerril; a generic recommendation that to me the truth is that I do not have any grace because I have a lot of respect for the defenders of the people and the valets of the people, the difference of others. At the third point we intend to protect families at risk of social exclusion in order to arbitrate, in collaboration with the municipalities, the measures necessary for their realisation through the various programmes launched by the Council of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia today has more tools to facilitate residence and access, such as the rental aid for the population with income levels ranging from 0.7 to 3.5 times the IPREM, the social lease bonus, the Royal Program, the Empty Housing Program, the Joint-General Council of the Judiciary and Fegamp Convention, which allows to stop the evictions when there is a situation of social vulnerability, or the Reconduce Programme, a program aimed at supporting families to predict the risk of death by mortgage. We cannot accept the considerations of some political groups that say there is no social housing policy for vulnerable people. I suppose they speak from the knowledge that, indeed, there are councils that are not within the empty housing program of the Galician Union and that they cannot therefore be part of that program and cannot offer these empty housing to their neighbours and neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently come to live a series of absolutely unacceptable situations in democracy in the Town Hall of Santiago: that individuals have made unlawful and illegal use of a private property without the consent of their rightful owner; that it took the owner three years to regain possession of their property; that he had a firm judgment whose execution the judge responsible for that trial, in the self-execution, said how to perform that execution... Normally in all evictions it is said that he is accompanied by bodies and security forces of the State when a situation of resistance to eviction is foreseen... Of course, the judicial authorities of this type never communicate themselves to any administration, simply to the police who will participate in that eviction. I'm saying that because there were people who felt badly hurt because no one had communicated the eviction. The fact is that if the judges had to report all their judicial actions and all their executions of judgment to all the municipalities and even the Autonomous Community, they would be overwhelmed by reports. But, well, I was saying that in that context in which this landlord for three years had no access to his housing and, with a court ruling in his hand, the eviction took place, because we saw the less institutional and more antidemocratic face of the political representatives of the radical nationalist left, and we considered it absolutely unacceptable. Since the People's Parliamentary Group we condemn the violent actions that have taken place in the city of Santiago on May 30 and June 10, where ten police officers have been wounded; four of them, today, are still on the ground. We have shown all our solidarity with the state's bodies and security forces and with those police officers; police officers, officers, who have acted with absolute professionalism to defend legality and to defend public order. [[Applause]] With their actions they tried to maintain order and coexistence in the city of Santiago after the execution of a judicial sentence and in the face of the violent response of hundreds of people, trapped, who assaulted the police with sticks, throwing stones, bottles, petards and flares. They weren't, ladies and gentlemen, cultural activists, as Mrs. Pontón said on her twitter. The truth is that very cultural and very peaceful didn't seem to have been to this demonstration. We also regret that the mayor of Santiago had stood on the side of the violent and not on the side of the legitimate owner, who had not shown solidarity with the wounded police and also that he had not condemned the attack the owner of the property subsequently suffered by these vandals and these violent. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, against violence no one can keep in definition. Either he's with the violent or he's against them. [[Applause]] We are against the violent and illegal demonstrations that have been held in Santiago and anywhere else. Leave the New Language for another moment. We're talking about security, we're talking about legality, we're talking about the right to private property, we're talking about defending the professionalism of the state's bodies and security forces, they're watching for our security and they're looking for compliance with the law. The mayor of Santiago chose to stand on the side of the violent, on the side of those who organize illegal demonstrations, on the side of those who throw screws, stones and flares. The mayor of Santiago said that these gentlemen did what they did was "passive resistance," passive resistance. Welcome to the New Language. The truth is we have to start taking note of these new concepts in order to make a new dictionary of the language of neopolitics. I'm done, ladies. We defend the rule of law, we are with civil society and civilized society. We defend private property and defend vulnerable families to have decent housing, but we don't defend those who violently remove the use of property from their legitimate owner to make a glass bar or dance capoeira, not because they don't have a decent housing, but because they're against the system. And we trust and will continue to defend, always, wherever we are, the rule of law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Interventions by parliamentary groups. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u206	Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is going on to defend both private property and the right to a decent and appropriate housing that this non-legislative proposal of which Mrs Prado spoke, who was debated last week in this House, was a non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; since she forgot to comment on it. We know that it is necessary to reconcile the right to private property and the constitutional principle of the right to a decent housing, but also without losing sight that the Constitution itself says that all the country's wealth is subordinate to the general interest. We are aware that the rights of each one end where other people's rights begin, that the rights of the occupants end where the rights of the owners begin, or that the rights of the security forces and bodies end where the rights of the civilians begin, or also the rights of the information professionals. And that's why we use today again to ask for the derogation from that infamous law that tarnishes fundamental rights, which is the citizen's security law, or more known as Mariano Rajoy's "bite law." The initiative you bring here today, the People's Parliamentary Group, is very good, is very technical; the exhibition was not so much, but the initiative is technical, if not because it's already in force in part. I mean, you can already apply what you're asking for in part. And that's why we have registered an amendment that affects points (b) and (c) of the first point and points 2 and 3 of its initiative. And I'll try to explain it without boring. I have just said that we understand that reconciliation between housing and property is essential, and it is true that it is better what is said in article 245 of the Criminal Code as regards the usurpation of buildings of a general nature. But there is no need to innovate anything, absolutely nothing, so that the so-called "fast trials" are allowed. We can already use quick trials in simple cases of immovable usurpation modalities. Therefore, it is not necessary to amend article 795 of the Criminal Judgment Act in that sense — which, of course, is not an organic law — because they fall under the penalty, the criminal code I know that because it affects a fundamental right, but the Criminal Judgment Act does not regulate fundamental rights and therefore does not necessarily have to be an organic law — they fall under the penalty because they collect this article from the Criminal Code, the 245, deprivation of liberty penalties which do not exceed five years or other nature which do not exceed ten, because it may be that the criminal proceedings are in violation of a police attestation, because it may be that the judicial police have arrested a person, making him available to the custody court or to the court or to be denounced as a judge. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These three requirements are essential to speak of quick trials. And it might be — I am every time I have an intervention in a committee, I say that I don't like to believe in accidents or planetary confluences — that happens just today, that we debate this initiative here, and just today they just stop several people precisely because of that conflict of what you were talking about in this city, in Santiago de Compostela. Today, if you debate this here, just this morning, it comes out with news that there were these arrests. Planetary confluences that or always match me, or that maybe every time you intervene, the stars turn around and things like this happen. What if it's not necessary to modify, because it's already done, is that it's an instruction that is presumed simple or a flagrant offence. All it would be necessary to amend, Mrs Prado, is to expressly include Article 245 through a reform of the Law on Criminal Judgment within the offences expressly collected by Article 795. In that case yes, but in all the other supposed ones it would be possible to come to them already. It is true that it would be especially necessary to provide material and personal means for judges, prosecutors, more officials, and increase the office of the Prosecutor's Office; that would be essential, but that seems not necessary. It's good that protocol between the Government Delegation and the High Prosecutor's Office, but even you could use something that also has in your case, which is the figure of acceptance of amended decree, introduced in the Criminal Prosecution Act in 2015 by a government of yours, a government of the People's Party chaired by Mariano Rajoy. Because in the case of improper occupation of buildings, dwellings, buildings other than dwellings, or keeping themselves against the will of their owners,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u208	...it would be possible — I ended, President — that the prosecutor, the prosecutor's sanctioning proposal, would become a firm judgment. Finally, it's good that you're talking about families at risk of social exclusion, but don't tell us that your empty housing program has a decent budget allocation, by the way. You must boost the construction of public housing, which you have not done and which you are absolutely forgotten.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u210	It would be good — finished, President — that the budget allocation was not ridiculous. I remember that for Vigo it was worth less than 30,000 euros and the municipalities didn't ask for it because it's absolutely useless for that program. And it wouldn't be much better if you used Sareb to figure out which houses are empty. At least Sareb could be useful for something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u212	Four minutes, thirty seconds was the time it took Mrs. Prado to clear up the matter which, in theory, she was bringing here. The rest of the time he spent talking about Santiago Town Hall. How dare the Tides democratically evict them from the Town Hall of Santiago! Yes, ma'am, and that we have a clean and dignified mayor, who dignifies that institution, and not as you did, who just didn't dignify the institution. [[Applause]] Because they think they are the owners, by divine destiny, of governments, and then they think that governments are also okupas, in municipal governments, who are okupas too, and they want to throw us out. You said: If you had to communicate each court decision, the system would collapse. Yes, sir, and if every person in trouble with corruption justice was to meet in the office of the Ministry of the Interior or the Secretary of State of Justice would also collapse, but that's why they only get the friends of the People's Party. That's the rule of law that you defend. [[Applause]] Shame on you! It's embarrassing your intervention, your initiative, etc.Oh, my God! You vote what they're looking for is artificially fattening a problem that doesn't exist to hide real bigger problems. Tell me, when you come here to talk, what is the impact in Galicia on the increase in the usurpation of housing by mafia who profites by unlawfully sub-alloating property to people who need housing. Here we know mobs of massive occupation over the past few years: the banks, who occupied thousands of housing under a mortgage legislation that European justice has stopped calling themselves consumer abuse; legislation that you have taken a long time to change, until they have had no other remedy, defending the abuses of banks all these years, which have put people on the streets year after year in this country. [[Applause]] In the first trimester of 2017, Mrs. Prado, six people each day went to the street, 684 people in the first trimester, 684 refugees, with an increase of 14%. That's the real problem in this country. That's the problem you need solutions; solutions that have nothing to do with a public policy problem; solutions that have to do with regard to housing as a right and not a business of speculation. You allow empty dwellings not to lower rent prices, allow rent abuse, allow abuse on people who have no means to pay for a housing, allow people who day after day to go, with little children. The main collective affected are women who live alone with children, and it's happening every day, and we know them and we see them face to face. And you come here to worry because you're dealing with a big company or a real estate bank! Of course there is social protest against these policies! because it is institutional violence, that you have a mortgage legislation that has been viewed by European justice for years as an abuse of consumers and is refused to change it. [[Applause]] That's institutional violence, Mrs. Prado. It's a smoke curtain, it's an artificial operation, because you came here and gave no data. Where is there a mob of occupation that occupies ordinary dwellings of humble people in danger of social exclusion? Tell me a case, tell me a case in Galicia where it happens. It can happen in Madrid, it can happen in Barcelona. But here, here. That's a problem for this country, the mobs of occupation. If you take care of a humble person who needs that housing to live, warn us, that we will be on the side of those people, as we are on the side of those people when it's the banks that expel them. [[Applause]] And they stop turning social policy into matters of public order. The problem of housing and local subsidies and the initiatives of social movements of occupation has no solution if it is reduced to a problem of public order. They stop being engrossed in punitive policies; they invest in dialogue, invest in social policies, make access to housing a priority for the Galician Union. Stop straying with irresponsible agitation campaigns and propaganda. Our cities are not desolated by hordes of okupas; they are filled with people with housing problems, who occupy precarious housing, with severe deficits, people who have not met basic needs of the roof. It's with this ghost army of okupas with whom they want to create social alertness irresponsibly, and I repeat, to sustain a strategy of fear to erode the municipal governments of the Tides, who have arrived democratically to dislodge corrupt governments. Born of his electoral opportunism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u214	...irresponsible, as always, as when they arrived in 2009, playing irresponsibly with the language of this country and with many more things. You don't have any scruples in partying. Stop deceiving society, stop deceiving citizenship. Of course there are Okupas mobs, besides the banks, as I've already said; of course there are, some are historical...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u216	One of the most well-known is the Franco family, which speculates with the use of a property that does not belong to them, illegally usurped, the palace of Meiraes, and you vote against eviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The laws that uniformize disparate situations and treat unequals equally are intrinsically unjust. In this LNP, you start from the generalization that everyone who lives is an antisocial disarmed. Textually they claim that in the usurpation of a dwelling suffer those who are seen deprived of their enjoyment and neighbors who endure vandalism, incivic behaviors, thus painting a chaotic panorama. Let's see. There are mobs, as has already been said here, or organized bands that turn the occupation into a business, demanding the rescue by the unoccupied housing. There are mafias who occupy and make real estate a lucrative business. There are mafias that build up in violation of or undermining legality. There are groups that keep without renting an exaggerated number of dwellings to speculate, alter or influence market prices. There are associations that do not have a social location and temporarily occupy an abandoned public building or housing damaged and left by hand, and do so to draw attention to their shortcomings and problems. This one who speaks to them met occupations by groups of young and young people who made ruinous and abandoned places of coexistence, culture — not pseudoculture, culture of truth — and freedom, which gave life and aroused appreciation for the neighborhood, which was demanding dynamism. It really hurts to hear about people who never had a youth, or who at least publicly confess that they didn't have a youth. [[Applause]] There are more than 250,000 empty houses in Galicia; the seven cities of Galicia are about 90,000. The last serious investments in social housing in Galicia's Union were made when the demons stole and surrounded the country of the Bipartite. In the years 2014-2015, there were more than 4,951 challenges. Who dislodges the financial entities who, rescued from the money of all of us, follow with the soul sold to the devil, claiming what morally is no longer theirs? Title I of the Spanish Constitution, which refers to fundamental rights and duties, enshrines in Article 47 the common right to a decent and adequate housing. The article also points out that — and I quote textually — "public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and shall lay down the relevant rules to enforce this right, regulating the use of the floor according to the general interest to prevent speculation. The community will participate in the surpluses that generate the urban action of public authorities." The right to a decent housing is linked to the fundamental right of home integrity. How do we combine this verbal time with those who lack housing because of being in what we today call euphemism "social exclusion" and on my land we call "merity." Which of the gruesome rights weighs more on the balance of common sense and the concept of social justice? The problem comes with unbalanced virulence in this time of crisis: raided and redeployed homes to families or individuals with serious problems of subsistence, evictions of families or persons beaten by the crisis and also by the greed of banking entities who have committed an offence of abuse, theft and unlawful recovery, even though public and consented by the PP, taking possession of illegitimately belonging, in conjunction with political, corrupt and lapsed power. So it's about trying to harmonise two rights that have enormous difficulty: the right to housing and the right of owners. Once again, we will affirm and affirm ourselves in favour of a special plan aimed at neutralizing and eradicating mobs who occupy and trade with empty housing; that is, to treat unequally unequal situations, and so we did on the 9th day. Occupation is not a right, but it is evident that if it is a way of fulfilling another constitutional right of great importance, that of housing, which we have just mentioned. So the problem in the occupation is that they collect two rights: on the one hand, the right to housing and privacy at home and on the other hand, the right to property. And so it is up to a judge to weigh and decide the most appropriate, taking into account the peculiarities of each particular case, as it can be if the owner needs to immediately dispose of the occupied building or if the eviction can be delayed until the people who are found have a housing solution. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that the day they present this initiative urgently begins the arrests for the unfortunate events of Escarnius and Maldizer. We don't believe in chance either. [[Applause]] Eight of them have been arrested so far. Get out of their hands and they can't go back. Excuse me for daring: the rule of law isn't synonymous with the police state, is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río, and I ask you to position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u220	Well, about that last one, I'm just gonna smile a little bit because it deserves nothing but a smile, because it left me... Mr. Rivas, it left me speechless. May the arrests of some gentlemen who with stones, sticks, flares and shields, with punctuating poles were unlawfully manifested in Santiago on June 10th, that the arrests of these "angels"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u221	Please listen to who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u222	...the tribute that we present here today is absolutely surreal, Mr Rivas; absolutely surreal. Mr. Sánchez, the mayor of Santiago didn't go to the house of these children and of those families so helpless and so desperate that they had no homes. The mayor of Santiago went to solidarity with the violent, who carried sticks and stones against the police and against the neighbors and neighbors of Santiago de Compostela, who suffered the violent acts last May 30 and June 10. Those were the ones Mr. Noriega put on, not those homeless families you're talking about. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And the truth is, I thought, when we presented this initiative and when we discussed it in Commission 3 last week, Mr Sánchez, that you understood the operation of the mobs, but I see you don't understand it. Look, the mafia problem... No, no, I'll explain it because you asked me to explain it; I'll explain it as didactically as I can. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Look, the mobs are taking advantage of those vulnerable families who are in a situation of absolute helplessness. Those mafias what they do is speculate about the poverty of these people and, instead of those people accessing a decent housing — as it is in the programmes of the board that we just said and that I have just reported, and that you, so you see, you don't even want to attend, instead of being in those programs... I already gave them, Mr. Sánchez! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And if you don't... look, you guys, who are so smart, have data for everything. [[Murmurs.]] The very needy families have programs from the Galician Union to have a decent home, they don't need mobs to speculate about their poverty. And that's what we want to fight against. If that doesn't matter to you, there you are! I continue to defend the violent and those who defend things not by word or dialogue, but by poles, by stones, by flares and by screws. Look, Mr. Rivas, if so much cultural activity generates these people, because the mayor gives them a municipal location. He didn't, it shouldn't be as cultural as these gentlemen do there. About the amendments to tell you, Mr. Sanchez, that you haven't spoken for a minute of your amendment, you can see that you don't even believe it. That's just a smokescreen not to approve an initiative that goes for the rule of law and that goes for the recovery of private property when it's violated by people who have nothing from vulnerable people or people in need of housing. And the amendment you tabled, Mr. Sánchez, could be a little more original, because it presented the same text as the motion 1624 — debated in the plenary session of December 13th — which we have already told you not. And today we're not going to say yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u223	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u224	And you, because you're talking about that there are so many problems in the Town Hall of Santiago, that you know yesterday they lowered the agreement with the association of psychologists in three thousand euros, because you told your social policy counselor that there were no more problems of defiance. The truth is, we don't want to throw them out, as you say they want to throw us out. The polls will say what they have to say, because that's where democracy is shown. And don't come to this rostrum and say there's a government that's not democratic and that's illegitimate, when eight months ago it was elected by most absolute in the polls by the Greeks and the Greeks, to whom you both insult their intelligence. On the amendment of the Socialist Party, if we can get to a transaction, Mrs Vilán, I'll pass you a text to try to reach an agreement. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u225	Thank you very much. We now — as has already been reported — make a change on the agenda published and we move on to the interpellations, in particular to 5.2. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to hospital care during the summer months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u226	Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u227	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. We speak today — our intention is to put up a debate through this call — about resource planning at summertime, summertime. We are in a reasonable defense of health system resource planning, as most of the systems do — not to say practically all — that they have it as normal in summertimes — or, in this case, especially in summertimes, because most professionals ask, and are entitled to their vacations. Within this planning — which we consider necessary — and the predictability it has to have, we believe it is important to point out some aspect. We consider planning to be reasonable all the time and when the system runs smoothly for the rest of the year. What's going on? That in our assessment and in many others — in the collectives, in the professionals, in the patients — this system works almost in a limited position throughout the year. We believe that planning that can be done is logical and reasonable when the system works without superseding, but it's not the case of our health. There are a lot of news, a lot of data that the different groups offer, saying that the Greek hospitals will have a thousand hundred beds less this summer. Between 15% and 20% of hospital beds will not have staff assigned, according to statements by the councillor himself in those curious euphemisms of "not having staff assigned to the beds is not the same as closing beds." "The Lugo hospital closes in summer units with 100% occupation throughout the rest of the year." Sergas recognizes that he was closing one hundred forty beds in CHUS during the summer; the Mexeiro will have in the summer three of his closed plants; the Cunqueriro, seventy beds; the summer closing of CHOU beds will last five months; the CHOU recognizes that he closes nearly a hundred hospital beds during the summer... and so we could follow: the numbers are quite powerful. There appears to be an exaggerated schedule for a system that has problems already during the summer. Without entering into the debate of the euphemisms and if the beds are not closed but disabled, if they are open, but only if they have no assigned staff or any of the things they want to point out, the truth is that the non-use of those beds by default defines that in this system that we have today we have a danger and a risk in terms of health. Why? Because our staff is already, at the moment, too saturated. We have one of the lowest hospital staff ratios per person from all over Spain. We have a very high rate of eventuality that the Council cannot clarify — or do not want to clarify — despite the repeated demands of trade unions, collectives and political parties. We have a citizen rating in the last health barometer in which four out of five people say they would demand changes in the hospital care system and where only three out of twenty people say there have been improvements in the last five years. We have, in fact, the third worst hospital system assessed by citizens, the third worst specialized care assessment assessed by users according to the barometer of the CIS; the third worst of all Spain. Much of this assignment in evaluation is done by waiting lists, which is a serious problem where the Galician Union itself emits data that say that in some services — and I put the example of vascular surgery in Vigo — the first consultation, the diagnostic test and the more surgical intervention has about 300 days, on average!, which means that there will be people in the year and half, calmly waiting for that service. And only as long as we're talking about official data and not schedules that aren't counted and appointments that aren't given. Is this data that allows you to cope with a service reduction? No, from our point of view. The system — as I say to you — lives in a routinely critical situation and, from our point of view, is a system that lives so close to the limit that this planning cannot be allowed. For us, suppose this situation is the opportunity it has — and it takes advantage — of the Board to make not a sensible planning, but to design an opportunity to afrocate a bit. And this is not what we should do with our system, Counselor. We're in favour of planning to be more efficient, but not planning to take advantage of being more scars, because we can't be playing, even more, with our system. Efficiency is to accompany bed and staff planning. What's the volume of staff you won't be working this summer? What is the volume of staff that will be hired so that this summer, all that time these beds are closed, will we have as much attention as possible? Because if the percentage reduction in staff is much higher than the percentage reduction in beds, we're making the service worse than the limit we already have, which we already have a tremendously saturated and tremendously over-enforced staff. If we already have a difficulty now, if we close even above it more beds than we have personally, what we get is a much larger service deficit and, then, we're exceeding all acceptable limits. For us efficiency is to take advantage of the opportunity to improve services. Why not use it to improve the level of waiting lists? That is, reduce the waiting lists by taking advantage of the summer — since it is possible and possible — as other systems do. Efficiency is planning correctly. If with this data we can make an assessment, we could actually consider that the situation, Counselor, is grotesque. We can't assume that this system is well-planned, because it's not well-planned when it's not throughout the year. The health system works thanks to professionals, despite their managers. The truth is, Counsellor, we have found that in this system there is a great deal of diligence in the Council of Galicia to reduce services, too! Very quickly if you make a plan to reduce beds or reduce personnel and yet we remember the case of the flu in January and we see that there was much less diligence to increase the staff that was needed. You see it's much easier, much more grateful and much more desirable to reduce services than to increase them. In fact, it demonstrates quite style and rather belief in the system. From our point of view — as we have conveyed to you — we believe this is not a valid situation and we believe that the demand for staff is necessary. We remind you, Mr Counsellor, that the call of an OPE of a thousand six hundred squares — approved through an initiative by the Socialist Party, which you voted for — is still questioning each day they speak and are still considering that it is still in doubt on issues that do not have to do with Galicia. We remind you, moreover, Counsellor, that we have been demanding an increase in staff not only through this OPE, but also to clarify how much and what is the possibility of stabilising as many staff as possible. I know they have some initiatives, little ones; little for what we need. We've seen them demanding they don't use euphemisms. Sergas insists that the beds never close and the beds close. You recognized him in this rostrum, Counsellor, said here that there were closed plants—literally, in this rostrum. He justified the closure of over 90 beds claiming that they will remain available; justifying a closure claiming that the beds are still available is a dangerous language game. "Junta insists that the closing of beds in the summer doesn't reduce the quality of care; if it doesn't reduce the quality of care, the next thing we're going to hear is that we're going to close them all year round, because if it doesn't reduce the quality of care, what are we, overhearing for the rest of the year? "Sergas disables this summer an average of 13% of beds"; elsewhere they say 15% and elsewhere 17%. Ourense is the most affected area. Actually, Counsellor, what we're looking at is that there's a system with staff deficits, resource deficits and many operating problems. And we're dealing with a system that could be planned correctly if it was well designed, but it has a management problem. What we are proposing, through this initiative, is that we are in favour of planning, but not in favour of cutting or taking advantage of opportunities to limit services. Through this interrogation we asked you about several things. First of all, by the quality of care, if you can guarantee the quality of attention. We asked you for data on the beds, about the average volume of bed occupancy and how many of those beds will be without occupation — one thousand two hundred is mentioned, but we want to know what the data you can offer us. And what volume of staff will hire Sergas to cover, because it wouldn't make any sense that we could say that not a lot of beds will be closed but that we're going to have very little personal or, on the other hand, because if you defend that with the volume of staff that Sergas currently has, it should be normal not to hire too much. I know this is a bit illusory, I'm aware — we're aware — that they won't hire too much, unfortunately. On the basis of what criteria and what information is planned, is there a document for this? If it exists, I'll allow myself to forward, in addition, a request: if it exists, we'd like to have that information. How does Junta value the claims and plans made by other groups? In short, this system is not well-planned throughout the year and therefore planning a cut of services so abismal during the summer we think it puts the system at risk. We're in favour of planning, but we're not going to be in favour of planning that afromatic reduction. What we're thinking, Counselor, is that we can make a sensible design, because every year we're going to find this problem. If we all find a coherent and reasonable position that we can all assume, we should have the possibility to get out of this debate and have a well-planned system, constantly, and every year. That is our will through this interpellation, but let me express that throughout the year we have a management problem and, right now, we see a planning problem for that management, especially for the summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u229	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, of course, health care in Galicia is guaranteed throughout the year, so it can't — nor is it — be different in the summer. The quality of security of the services we provide in the Galego Health Service is not planned by stations. I can't imagine any managers calculating the top level of an epoch or the top level of another one. Health planning leads to the management and adequacy of resources to care needs at all times, and should be as closely adjusted as possible to these needs. In the Galician Health Service we have various tools, indicators and systems of activity and production information that provide objective — quantitative and qualitative — data on health care. Among them, we have indicators that measure hospital care activity, both regarding external consultations, diagnostic tests, hospitalization and emergency care, such as the type of pathology attended and the complexity of the patient himself. These information systems are a fundamental tool in the field of health management, which makes it possible to streamline the decision-making process by facilitating a rapid and accurate understanding of the organization. This set of tools is available to different EOXI management teams; they are updated monthly and are an analysis object for health planning throughout the year. Thus, since the Galego Health Service we have systematically planned the adequacy of care resources every year. And in the summer period it is necessary to take into account circumstances such as the decrease in the demand for care, motivated by the decrease in seasonal morbidity of certain pathologies, as well as information from the various indicators of care and activity, vacation breaks of professionals and possible incidences at this time. Therefore, in this same planning line, the Galego Health Service performs the proper management of the absences of staff, taking into account the care demand, in order to guarantee the health of the citizen. We have to add that this type of health planning and management is not a peculiarity of our system, it's not done exclusively in Galicia, but it's something common, every year, in all health services. Based on these criteria and indicators of care planning, during the summer period of 2016 the percentage of beds that were operated in the Galician Health Service was 87.9%, while the percentage of employment during these months was 75%. So twelve points below the occupation regarding the working beds last year. The average percentage of occupation throughout 2016 was higher, up to 76.64. We talk, as I say, all year round. In 2017, during the summer months, the percentage of working beds will be 88.9%, a percentage point more than in the same period of the previous year. It is necessary to make it very clear — without any doubt — that, although we count with a margin — as I say, more than twelve points on the planned occupation — we are a dynamic system, and we are therefore prepared to meet a higher percentage if necessary. As we have explained on numerous occasions, health needs vary: they are dynamic processes and resources must be proportionate to these needs. Therefore, also in the case of professionals, the number necessary at each time to ensure health care in the centres will be contracted. Whenever there is a need for assistance in the different integrated management organisational structures, according to their autonomy of management, they use the recruitment lists to formalize the appointments that are necessary; most of all during the summer period, in which you have to reconcile the right to personal vacations — as you said, totally agree, I think we are in that — with the attention of the population. In this sense, Sergas, consistent with his responsibility, hires all the personnel that are objectively necessary to maintain the care activity in our health centres. That is, the management of absences and the planning of substitutions are carried out taking into account the demand for care, i.e. the replacement of a hundred percent of the absences that are needed according to the needs of each centre. Be assured that the management of human resources in Sergas is done with the criterion of ensuring accurate, safe and quality health care in all areas of care, hospitals, primary care and continuing care points. In addition, it is necessary to point out that hospital beds are not closed; as I say, they are operational for the needs that the citizens of Galicia and all those who approach each year, in greater proportion, to spend a long season with us. Look, I think you have a little old-fashioned speech. At all times he spoke of beds, beds, beds; I think there must be talk of activity. And that's where we differ, between what you propose and what we've been doing for many years. We had a few days ago to visit the Basque Country Health Counsellor, who met a number of our facilities, among others, he was at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. And the truth is he said that Galicia had a high level of quality in health, innovation and infrastructure. Because I want to remember, at this point, that the Basque Country — which has, I think, is now thirty-five or thirty-six years of transfers — will open the first hospital that builds, as the Basque Government, in the coming months, is about to inaugurate a comarcal with all the activity. And here, in recent years -- we've been, as you know, twenty-six years of transfers -- lots of hospital buildings have already been built. The last ones — and the paradigm, I think, of a magnificent infrastructure — are Lugo's hospital and Vigo's hospital; but we also have as important extensions as Salnes's, as we are doing in the Coruña, and in which we continue with the plan director. But also, next time, the Ourense hospital, and we're expanding the Burela hospital. And I think we're going to increase in bed infrastructures, although the trend across Europe is to decrease by about 5% in beds, because healthcare is a different thing. And nowadays, activity, in large part of what we do at the hospital level, is an outpatient activity. I want to give you a data, just a data, so you know what we're talking about. In surgical interventions — data from the year 2012 — practically outpatient surgery and with income were 50%. Four or five years later, we're in which outpatient clinics go over 15,000 with incoming surgeries. Multiplier average income from hospital stays and you'll see that the need for beds as infrastructure obviously loses importance. And what does he win? What ambulatory infrastructures are important. We're talking about surgeries with major outpatient surgery, but also about medical-oncohematological day hospitals, where many patients who, a few years ago, had to enter and spend days receiving treatment, not right now. So I think we should try to go to reality, to the activity that takes place in our hospitals and to the quality, which, as I say, is better every day. Logically, in health you can't stand up either, you need to improve. And as you said you were in favour of planning, we, of course, too; but it's planning -- as I say -- with data. I don't know if everything I've said so far serves the spokesman of the Socialist Party, but I could give you another style to the answer and then, if you like, tell me whether it's worth it or not. It says, "Planning the number of beds in summer time, therefore, is justified in the lowest rates of hospital occupation on these dates, mainly due to a seasonal reduction in pathologies and corrective reduction in disease income." Or in another paragraph it says: "In parallel, activities are rationalized by valuing available human resources, since summer — as is the case with other professions — is the period most demanded by staff for statutory vacations. This conditions the need to replace the staff that enjoys this period in order to ensure activity." This is a press release entitled "The Galego Health Service is planning to close an average of 430 beds in the summer of this year 2007." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u230	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor on his replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u231	Well, thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you for making me reference to 2007, right?, as I expected; but I didn't think I'd make it so easy: 430 beds! We're closing 1,200 this year. According to their interpretation that as the years go by, the outpatient surgery improves and, therefore, if you need fewer beds, if you were to close 430 and now 1,200, what would you qualify for? I think it's backwards! In fact, look, as you put that example to me: you tell me that I have an old-fashioned speech; for if mine is old-fashioned, and I have here the press release itself that you pulled out, then yours has to be a non-antiquated, but paralytic speech. By the way, he always talks to me about building hospitals! Mr. Counselor! "The PP's grotesque cap that Health closes the beds" — 2007 —; grotesque, 430 beds with 2,500 professionals more, and this year 2,500 professionals less, 1,200 beds closed. Counselor, if that was grotesque, what is it? I'm not going to use the adjective that is, like the President of Parliament tells me something. [[Applause]] Because the qualifier "greek" didn't say so, said his health spokesman. If that was grotesque, what is this? Less than half of closed beds, 2,500 more professionals; in addition, we now justify that in time we have to close less beds... is that you have already given me the answer, Counselor. But, of course, how important are beds? Of course! "Mother says beds are important in hotels and not hospitals" — press release. Of course, that's very difficult. You tell me, Counselor -- I told you, and I think I spoke with a tone of some deal -- that there is no station planning. I'm going to make a contribution if you consider it to be of interest: next year, in January, there will be a flu epidemic, and next year, in summer, there will be a lot of people who want to take vacations. I'll tell you if... It's not a station planning -- I know it -- but next year in January there will be flu. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] From our point of view, we suggest an increase in staff. In the coming year, in summer, there will be staff who take vacations. If they don't plan by stations, it's time... because, as you say, everyone does. I like the example of Euskadi. You know I want Euskadi? That we have in this Greek system the same personal ratio as Euskadi, which is much bigger than ours. We have — I repeat — the third worst hospital staff ratio in Spain; hospital staff divided by citizenship, the third worst. Sure, tell me, "old-fashioned speech," if you always talk to me about building hospitals! Then your speech, Counselor? If mine is old-fashioned... it's always in the same place... By the way, if they're going to expand Burela Hospital, they're going to make it big, in case they don't fit their name; because, of course, they're going to think they need to change their name, but at last... I'm actually waiting for the count report to pass on to me; if they don't, they're going to have to ask for article 9. [[Laughter]] But, well, we know that beds don't close, that in Basquedi they do very well -- they have much better staff, they close fewer beds -- that the Bipartite also closed beds... yes, we're in favor of real planning in summer, of course! What happens is that one was done with 2,500 more professionals, and this is with 2,500 less professionals. And that one closed 430 beds and this close 1,200; and you qualified it as grotesque. How do we qualify now, Counselor?, how do we qualify now? Finally, according to your interpretation, Counselor, now you should close fewer beds because the system is better; now we have less personal, but that's because the system is better; more beds are closed, but that's because the system is better; we have less personal ratio per citizen, but that's because the system is better. The situation is very good, because the system is better; it used to be very bad, because others were ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u232	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u233	Yes, I continue. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] If something is important, you can come up here and say it, I'll buy you some time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u234	Please continue, that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u235	I'm trying to continue. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, Counsellor, I was saying that if everything goes best and you used to qualify as grotesque a much better numerical situation, then how is it possible that the system is now so well? how can you tell me that the same service is guaranteed? [[Murmurs.]] By the way, you didn't answer me, what's the volume of staff? Tell me you're going to hire all the available staff. If you don't hire all the available staff, are you willing to come here and admit that you don't hire? Finally, Counselor, I have made an interpellation, I think with a kind tone, of entry; we even coincided on something. But you came here to oppose me, and the truth... I believe — I believe, I am not mistaken, that I am not yet a health adviser and I have no intention of doing so in the coming months, Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u237	...but I'm also telling you, numbers aren't hard, 430 is less than 1,200, and 2,500 professionals are less than 2,500 professionals. That was a well-planned system and they closed fewer beds in the summer; this is a more planned system and they close more beds in the summer. If you're able to tell me that the system is going better, you're a magician and I recognize it; I think it's hard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u238	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr. Torrado, much did not prepare this subject, because when he said that I had already given him the answer he did not realize that what he was asking was you, I was giving him the answer. [[Applause]] Look, see how you understand this. This is a press release -- as you said, I didn't say -- of the Bipartite, June 2008, to see how he understands it: "The Galician Health Service has planned the closing of an average of 520 beds every fortnight, two months in July, August and September." This is complicated to understand! Hey! Look, it divides into fifteens, then it puts months and so on. [[Murmurs.]] Look, at the end, I think we have to talk about what we have to talk about, which is about the Galician Health Service and the service we give to the citizens of Greece. And, frankly, Mr Torrado, I believe that the use of certain subjects to meet here, within Parliament, is not the best tactic. I think there are issues that can be talked about, that are novices. This — as I say — can be recovered every year and we are always in it. I have to tell you -- as I said at first -- is that the planning that takes place is a serious planning because part of data, data that you didn't mention here, just comments and adjectives, but it doesn't present any data. I'm telling you, we have clear data that we improve the healthcare infrastructure with more beds, but, above all, with more quality in the services. We potentiate day hospitals, we potentiate the entire outpatient surgery, and that translates into activity, which the citizen values. And not only does it value that we do more activity — that patients logically demand — but because they are much better treated. Look, I told him that between 2012 and 2016 there was a difference of 15,000 more outpatient interventions. These are patients who, of course, are happier because they didn't have to be admitted to a hospital. People, if we give them a choice, prefer to stay at home and solve problems as soon as possible at the hospital. So we're talking not only about activity, but also about quality perceived by the patient, and that's where we have to keep building. Of course, when there's activity, we're responding. I was talking before we're in a critical situation all year round. I don't know if you wake up — I did because I lived it — from the time the flu led to the transfer of many patients to concerted centers. That's diminished today. At the time of the Bipartite, I remind you that spending on concert was much higher than we are doing right now. So I think we're doing a much better use than you did back then. And we have to keep working. I say that what you think is already finished, that you have to stop and so on, not. We've got to keep working, but we've got to go on with a certain criterion. With a criterion, on the one hand, of efficacy and care efficiency, and, on the other, of quality perceived by patients. The concept of efficiency and responsible use of public resources must always be present for those responsible for public management. I understand that also for politicians, although they have no direct responsibilities of management, but they seem to be not as clear to all. As for the beds, as we said, in Sergas we carry out planning on which will be the expected occupation of beds during the summer, winter and other seasons of the year. This planning is carried out in a study that takes into account not only the frequency of different hospital areas, but in each specific health area and in periods similar to the previous one. In the case of hospitalization, we will keep operational the resources we plan to understand that they will be necessary, and always with a margin between occupation and concrete activity in hospitalization. With regard to the handling of absences and substitution planning, the request for assistance is realized. There will be cases where 100 percent is replaced, and others where we don't get to that percentage because it's not necessary. In short, Mr Torrado, the adequacy of care resources is carried out as a set of management measures that, by ensuring health care to users, adapt to summer reality and preserve efficiency in our health system, as is logically required in a public system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u240	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now move on to the next amendment to the agenda, with the next question to the Government, in particular to 7.8, by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight others, of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the new technological equipment for diagnosis and therapeutic procedures installed in the Sergas hospital centers through the technological partner
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u241	To put the question, Mr. Aurelio Alfonso Nunez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u242	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. In January 2015, the Council of the Galician Council approved an investment of 88 million euros for the recruitment of the high-tech Galego Health Service to attend Greek citizenship. The contract would cover the needs of testing and diagnostic procedures by image, interventionism, nuclear medicine and radiotherapy; that is, all the so-called high technology in Sergas. This contract was carried out through competitive dialogue, a formula provided for in the State Contracts Act of 2007 (not governed by the People's Party) and recommended for processes that present special technical difficulties. Hospitals work with the vocation to offer the patient the best quality, both in diagnosis and in the treatment of diseases. The economic crisis has made it difficult to renew the equipment, and at the state-wide level a significant part of it has become obsolete. The technology partner allows us to sign agreements with companies that, in any case, already provided high-tech for the public service, in order to have the latest advances in equipment and the necessary upgrades so that they can always be in the first line of quality. Modernizing the teams directly benefits the patient but also the professionals, and even improves the economy of the health institution itself. To decrease the degree of exposure to radiation, which in the new equipment may represent the eighth part of the previous ones, the number of minimally invasive surgeries, laparoscopic and even monitoring should be added to reduce ICU revenues. From the point-of-the-art contracts for each device, global and time-sustained agreements were made with a technological partner working with the hospital itself, who values needs and technology, is responsible for the maintenance and updating of equipment, develops research sets and provides training to professionals for the use of new technologies. These contracts, ladies and gentlemen, have been made in many autonomous communities with governments of different political colour. The German contract includes equipment at all Sergas hospitals. The objective of this procurement dossier is to renew high technology, increase the quality of care of health centres, improve the availability of the above-mentioned equipment and, likewise, the efficiency of the demand for diagnostic tests and therapeutic procedures for those who need to use these devices. After two years since the agreement of the German Government, we have asked the following question: What new technological equipment for diagnosis and therapeutic procedures has been installed in the Sergas hospital centres through the technology partner? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. To answer, you have the word of the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Núñez Centeno, thank you very much. The truth is, in fact, in 2015, through the technological partner, we launched the greatest technological renewal made up to the date in Galicia, and possibly of the largest at the national level. To renew the technological park with many equipment at the end of its useful life, and to be able to provide better technology for the diagnosis and treatment of patients, was considered a necessity, a priority, to which a response should be given. In addition, we must remember that we were trying to address the two most important problems that we have, the most important causes of mortality in Western society, which are, first, the causes of cardiovascular origin, and second, the oncologics. An invitation to tender was made for 8 million euros in eight years and applied to three different lots. A lot was diagnostic by image and nuclear medicine, with the acquisition of 8 CT multicourt, 2 CT for radiotherapy simulation, 7 magnetic resonance imaging, 2 PET-TAC, 4 gammacameras and other technologies: vascular, mammographs, radiology. A lot 2, which was image-guided interventionism, with 2 hemodynamics rooms and 2 electrophysiology units. And a third lot, which is now almost in national debate, is the third lot of radiotherapy oncology. Logically, as you know, the levels of technology that advanced in cancer treatment were very, very important, and 10 linear accelerators were acquired. Over time -- we're in a very advanced but unfinished phase -- as for accelerators, we installed in 2015 an advanced band accelerator in Lugo, with the creation of the service, which didn't exist in Lugo, they had to go all the patients in the province to the Coruña; an innovative band in Vigo and an acceleration update in Ourense. In 2016 an accelerator was installed in Coruña; one more in Lugo, extensive band, and an innovative band in Santiago. And in 2017, currently in Coruña, the update of an accelerator is being performed and a new one is being installed right now. And there was also the installation of one advanced band in Santiago and another in Vigo. That is, of the 10 accelerators, we already have 8 installed or about to settle down in the next few months. In mammographers, breast cancer strikes 143,000 explorations, which are many, and have already been installed at the Virge da Junqueira hospital in Cee; another one in Abente and Lago, in Coruña; also in Santiago, at the Clinical Hospital; in Barbanza too; in Lugo; another one in Pontevedra and another in Ourense. And also another for the breast cancer program. Even so, new mammographs were installed in marine hospitals and in Monforte, as well as in Valdeorras, Montecelo hospital or the Mexoeiro. And no 2016, 2 in Ferrol, 1 in Hospital Arquitecto Marcide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u246	...and another in Novoa Santos, the latter for the breast cancer program. And another one at Salnés Hospital, too. And in 2017, the next one will be a mammographer at the Verín Hospital. I will continue the next intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u247	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word for Mr. Núñez Centeno's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u248	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. The improvement in technology -- as I said in my first intervention -- has benefits for users but also for professionals. This is an important investment in times of crisis, from which we are coming out thanks to the economic policies of the People's Party. Part of the financing of these equipment has been made with the solidarity of Mr. Amancio Ortega, to whom the citizens of Greece appreciate and value positively for their patronage in the fight against cancer, among other initiatives of a social nature. Unfortunately, there are always some people and associations who, with sectarian and partisan attitudes, try to deceive the population with free and false proclamations and assertions. [[Applause]] We had an example in the unfortunate intervention of an optional health service in a television station. A professional who held positions of responsibility in a public hospital during the two-party government and who expressed his rejection and that of his association, the Federation of Public Health Associations, of the prayer of this Greek of well claiming difficultly understandable reasons. For example, that the improvement of diagnostic devices such as mammographs increased the frequency of false positive tumor disease to increase deviations to private centers; that unnecessary evidence was made and that equipment was left. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Almost to the antiviral level. Or also that Mr. Amancio Ortega chose the appliances that were being bought and donated that money with the machiavelvel intent to be made with public health for his personal enrichment. Pure conspiracy. This association serves as a reference on many occasions to opposition groups, of whom I have not heard words refusing those irresponsible words. After the debates of the past legislation on this matter, I assume we won't listen to them. I, as a Greek and as a public health professional, felt ashamed of that kind of information we heard. Thank you again, Mr. Counsellor, for the work of all the professionals in the Council and Sergas on this issue, and we would be grateful if you could finish the answer you couldn't finish in the first intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína, has spoken.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u250	Thank you very much, President. We said that, in addition to the equipment I mentioned in the first intervention, a resonance was replaced in Coruña, 4 TACs, a vascular team, one in electrophysiology, one in hemodynamics, and several improvements in resonance equipment, TACs, hemodynamics and radiology equipment. A radiology team was also replaced in Cee. In Lugo, radiology teams were improved both at the Coastal Hospital and Monforte Hospital, and TACs, vascular and hemodynamics were also improved. In Santiago, we've replaced gammacameras, resonances, TACs, vascular and hemodynamic equipment, and it's in the process of installing a PET, we understand it's going to be in the next few months, and of course it's also improving radiology chips. In Vigo, a resonance, a CT, an electrophysiology team, a gammacamera, and various radiology, resonance and hemodynamic equipment have been improved. In Ourense and Pontevedra different vascular radiology equipments were replaced and TACs and resonances improved. I wanted to take advantage of it because, as you see, the number of equipment we could increase was very important, and here we have to say that all this is thanks to the work of our professionals, who were in the working groups to see what the real needs were. We advised not only to update and install new equipment, but to increase the number. As I say, it is significant, for example, the case of Lugo, where a new Radiotherapy Service is created and also a new Nuclear Medicine Service in a city where its citizens had to make miles at a given time. As I say, it's because of the group of professionals who helped us decide what the equipment was, and also Sergas's management team. I was not part of it, I was only lucky to sign this agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, but I had a team of managers who had the courage to go forward with a new system, as the honourable Member said, within European law, which is changing the facts of traditional procurement. By the way, Sergas at the level of innovation, of innovative public purchasing, is at a high level in Europe, and we are being invited to tell the experience of Galicia in different forums; we were last in Paris. I mean that all of this, of course, was planned to, in eight years, have a total and absolute change. And at that point, he reached an agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, which understood very well what we wanted to do: to reduce the main causes of mortality (cardiovascular and oncology), and to bet on that specific case by oncology. He didn't say what we had to buy, but he was already planning. Galicia was the first to reach this agreement. Galicia uses this money to improve facilities, and the other communities are still signing the conventions and beginning to plan what they should buy in the coming years. Galicia goes ahead, and, of course, we have to thank the Amancio Ortega Foundation very much, which turns some of its profits into something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u252	...that has real social impact, which is the treatment of the most serious patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-20-DSPG033.u253	The session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
