ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament of 1 June 2017, so we do not proceed to its reading. There are two justifications of non-attendance. One, with a vote delegation, is Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil, per paternity, who, in the light of Rule 84.3 and Rule 84.4 of the Rules of Procedure of the House exercises his right to the delegation of vote for this session in Mr Pedro Puy Fraga — by resolution of the Presidency of 1 June 2017, ratified by the Bureau at the meeting on 5 June, which authorised the delegation. And it also justifies the absence of Mr. Miguel Tellado for a health problem. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u2	I'm sending you some changes on the agenda, from which the spokespersons have already been informed. In particular, in the course of questions to the Government, the questions contained in numbers 1, 5, 6 and 7 will all be dealt with lastly within the question section to the Government. They'll all go to the last section of government questions. I repeat: questions 1, 5, 6 and 7. And now, no more, we're on the agenda. Application for the establishment of an investigation committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP. of the Galego Nationalist and En Marea bloc, to investigate the authorizations, contracts, concessions and, in general, all relations of the Villar Mir group with the Italian public sector, in particular the follow-up, analysis and investigation of the attempt to sell and segregation of the Xallas and Grande river power stations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u3	Round of parliamentary groups to defend this proposal. First of all, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u4	Good morning, gentlemen. We are debating today the proposal to set up this research committee with two very clear objectives. The first is that all concessions, all contracts and all public sector authorizations are analysed to the Villar Mir business group. And the second is that we can track down, analyze and investigate an operation as delicate as the attempt to sell and segregate the centrals of the Xallas River and the Great River, which puts at risk nothing more and nothing less than 300 jobs on the Death Coast. And today I would like to respond to why we make this proposal and why we want this commission of inquiry to be set up. And there are three fundamental reasons. The first is with regard to this Parliament, so that we can effectively fulfil the function of control, which is an essential role in the functioning of any democratic regime. Because a committee of inquiry is the most powerful instrument this Parliament has in order to be able to carry out the role of control over the executive. And when there's so much at stake for this country, when a ruthlessly a businessman who is being charged with illegal funding from the People's Party blackmails Galicia, we believe we can't stand by. And in this sense, the commission of inquiry is the most important instrument that Parliament has and, ultimately, it has the Greek people, which is also an instrument that allows us to investigate any matter that is of public interest. So just because I wanted to investigate and analyze the attempt to sell and segregate the Xallas River power plants, by the way, it would simply be justified and requisitified for the creation of this commission. But there's a second reason that for our group is also very important. And it is that this commission of inquiry is a necessary tool for combating corruption. And I want to say something very clearly: in the BNG we neither accuse nor judge nor condemn, we simply describe facts that are known, public, that many of them, in addition, appear in judicial summaries. And whether they like the members of the People's Party or not, what you call a succession of isolated cases is a genuine tsunami of corruption that shows us how rotten the 78th regime is. We also have very clear evidence that the focus of that corruption is not located in Madrid but is an expanding focus. At Gürtel, there was already clear evidence that Galicia was the currency of change in the corruption of the People's Party. But in the last few weeks, Operation Lezo has also discovered a new plot of corruption that directly expresses the general interest of our country. In this judicial act, the judge charged Javier López Madrid, who is vice president of Ferroatlantica and who resigned as counsellor of the OHL builder; but he also charged Villar Mir, who is the owner of Ferroatlantica and OHL, among other companies. I would like to point out that it is noteworthy that this whole group and this conglomerate of companies that depend on Villar Mir have, in a very important part, public concessions; that is, a part of their business derived from authorizations and decisions directly related to the Government. So we see how, for example, he has been benefiting from different works and service concessions: the adjudication of the new line of lure in the port of Vigues de Bouzas, works for the improvement of the fence of Punta Langosteira or the authorization by the Government of the Board of Galicia to manage all the hostels of the Way of Santiago. But their business and their ties to the Administration do not end here, because Villar Mir exploits the Serrabal mines, the wind farms of Monte Alegre and Pedra Minón, exploits the Xallas River and the Great River with six centrals that were linked to the maintenance of employment in the factories of Cee and Dumbria. By the way, three of those Central News authorized them by Mr. Feijóo once they were already expired. At the same time, we know that this businessman had generous donations to the Manuel Fraga Foundation and — I insist — he already appeared in the papers of Basel, and now he is charged with Operation Lezo. These are data that, of course, the seeds are a lot of doubt. And in the Galician Nationalist Block where we don't believe it is by chance. That is to say, we see how there is an entrepreneur who is allegedly charged with illegal funding from the People's Party and that throughout his -- let's call him -- business career has had important public benefits, important concessions, which depend on the Galician Union. In some cases we know, for example, that he was allowed to speculate. How could he have been allowed to mortgage the Xallas River power stations that were linked to the maintenance of employment on the Death Coast nothing more and nothing less than to invest in the fourth tower of Castellana or in a luxury urbanization in Canalejas? That was done with the authorization of the Galician Union and you were not required to have the money from those power stations reinvest in our country. We, ladies and gentlemen, want a commission of inquiry, because we have the right to investigate whether there are derivatives of the Lezo operation in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u5	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u6	We want the company's leaders to appear, but we also want them to appear in that investigation commission all the offices of the Galician Union that have something to do with these adjudications and we want to know what more prayers have been made. I'm quite clear that this investigation commission can only disturb, it can only stay, to whoever has something to hide. The rest will be by transparency, by the truth, and by the fact that this Parliament can fulfil its role, which is a function of control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u8	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, a doubt goes through our country, a reasonable doubt, a doubt that is based on the certainty of the existence of too many doubts about how the current government party in Galicia is financed. That doubt is overwhelmed by judicial suspicions, the continuous decisions of the judges, and also of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office that you tried to control so as not to doubt. A person like Mr. Villar Mir appears to be related to that doubt. It's not a arrival from now on. We speak of those who have held high positions in franchise, of those who have been building an economic empire alongside the powerful who parasitized the institutions and the cost of people's work; also the cost of public heritage through the use of the privatizations that they have plundered the collective heritage. Maybe that's why it's not so weird that he's still publicly defending the great coalition. He's clear on who's everybody's side, and we're also clear on who we're on people's side. Mr. Villar Mir received zero interest loans from Caixa Madrid, where his son-in-law, López Madrid, was randomly charged in Operation Lezo, where Mr. Villar Mir happened to be the same. In Balears a Popular Party advisor said he was under pressure to favor this company. Up to Mexico he was accused of illegally financing a party for grants. But here, in our country, we also know him. From him was the Serrabal mine, and for her she received a grant related to the construction of the AVE. The AVE hasn't arrived; but the money to Villar Mir, yes. And what about Ferroatlantic again in this Chamber! Villar Mir needs liquidity for his empire and wants to sell the power stations of the Xallas and Grande rivers, but there is an administrative concession that prevents him from doing so without segregation of the railway companies, an administrative bond to guarantee the industrial future of a whole region. Villar Mir doesn't care. He's sure the government's friend will lift his restraint no matter what. So sure you're sure that in autumn 2016 you've already reported the operation to the Nasdaq index in New York and May 24th has entered that segregation into the Mercantile Register yet without administrative authorization, for the anger of a spell that you've heard of the operation by the spokesman of En Marea in this Chamber. Such security can only come from certainty: that the government friend will not fail. And it will not fail, because the People's Party is the government friend of Villar Mir, because one gives only gifts, i.e., prayers, to his friends. We'd have to be doubted otherwise, and it's just that they're not friends and that what they're really doing is business. Consequently, there would then be doubt whether the prayer was in exchange for a favor or a business. You will understand that this doubt that goes through us is not capricious, neither for us nor for the whole of Galician society. That's why we propose to work together for this country. For once you act for the benefit of this country. Let's investigate, check the data, see if there are any reasons for these doubts arising from well-founded suspicions. You say you can't submit any company to this process because you can. And they're right. But you can't submit a country to a constant looting and look elsewhere. And that is why, with these background, if we have to look at this concrete enterprise, related to its financing, specifically the party that supports this particular government. Of course, the Villar Mir group hires governments of many colors, but the color of the money is only in the People's Party. Let's not look the other way, don't turn your back on everything people think and live in the street. If it is true what you say, nothing should be afraid of this commission. If it is true that the doubts have no basis, surely Mr. Villar Mir will be delighted to resolve the doubts that all the corruption we see is provoking. You give this company the opportunity to defend themselves and, above all, give this people the opportunity to know, and their people to know, what they do with their money, their public resources. Let's give the citizen the opportunity to vote on how everyone is funded and whether someone's going to double the election. In a trial it is known that someone without evidence can't be condemned. That's true, but it's true that it is also known that, when a complaint is accompanied by well-founded clues, what goes right is to investigate, clarify what happened, that there can't be left in the street the well-founded doubt, which is an obligation of the public authorities to clarify non- whimsical suspicions. Don't do it, don't investigate it, it's not to respect the presumption of innocence. It is to give a patent of course so that the powerful can do whatever they want while we condemn the robagaliñas — and this expression is not ours — it is the president of the General Council of the Judiciary, appointed by you. We didn't even ask them to go to the prosecutor's office or the guard's court to report. And I'm afraid they'd have enough data to do it. Sometimes they do it, but in hiding, through the back door and to harm each other. And then we have to watch the spectacle of the President of the Community of Madrid talking about friendly fire when it's investigated. The citizenry is tired of this game, full of the rustling interested in its internal factions, and of the movements at the tops of the prosecutors' offices to follow this trick. They have the chance to leave this mask game. This is your chance. And I'm going to finish. Support this committee, support this committee and allow doubts to be clarified; if they are in parliamentary office, they are not to investigate crimes. The role of the commission is not to investigate crimes, but to defend the interests of citizenship. That is why this committee is relevant. They return the institutions to the people, they don't let them be acubile of the powerful for longer. We invite them, from En Marea, to clarify the doubts so that the Greek people have the answers they deserve. We do not expect a judicial citation to give evidence of the reasons for its refusal to give answers that people are demanding to shout. Open the commission doors and open the doors to citizenship, and explain how and why the money was spent, which is part of what people pay for taxes goes to Villar Mir's companies. Tell him -- if you can -- why they don't have money for hospitals, schools, courts, or we don't say for anti-corruption prosecutions anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u9	Thank you, Mr. Villares. The turn of non-problem parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. As we know well, parliamentary committees of inquiry have either a double mission or a double objective. On the one hand, they set out irregular political-administrative actions in order, if any, to promote legal reforms that correct and prevent such actions. But, on the other hand, they obviously have the mission of demanding political responsibility if the causes of irregularities are in public office, requesting their resignation or dismissal. Since the Government normally has sufficient parliamentary support, it is really difficult for the demands of responsibility to prosper. But it will not be less relevant to the role of research committees as a parliamentary instrument for information and complaints. On account of some other intervention by our parliamentary group on transparency and anti-corruption measures, as the Spanish courts have prosecuted or opened proceedings for corruption crimes to 1,378 people, involved in a total of 166 cases, only in the period from July 2015 to September 2016, according to the last report submitted by the President of the General Council of the Judiciary, giving rise to a total of 399 persons convicted of corruption crimes corresponding to these cases. And also because of some other intervention, either in full or in commission, in the area of transparency and, as I say, anti-corruption measures, we pointed out from a perspective or a more environmental simile that we all need, society, citizenship, that the waters of public management, of political action, come down as clean as possible, that they go down with the greatest clearance so that they are not contaminating, as has been quite usual, the cloacas of the state, and that, as we said, the sea of democracy does not continue to fade away, as it is happening from time to time to observe the behaviors of business oligarchies but also political. And it is true that the businessman Villar Mir is investigated in the case of Lezo, a paradigmatic case of oligarchy plots, such as I say, business and politics, even with interferences in the area of the State Attorney General's Office, a perfect a priori spider web that is upsetting positions of the People's Party. But it is no less true that, without prejudice to these possible extensions of this way of acting to the rest of the Spanish territory, or in our case in Galicia, the cases cited in this initiative jointly presented by the BNG and En Marea of contracts of the Villar Mir Business Group in Galicia do not have in principle — which is, at least for the present time, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, nor do I believe that the rest of the House — originated police or judicial actions for corruption crimes or for any other kind of crime. It seems a priori, from this perspective, to open a cause of a general nature. If, on account of the majority of parliamentarians, they need more parliamentary groups to take this initiative forward, the Socialist Parliamentary Group would have liked to have this matter discussed with us too. It is not going to be that if the Socialist Party is to be put in these theories, when the Socialist Party is really going to be at the heart of the decision-making and balance of decisions to be taken from the point of view of parliamentary democracy and democratic regeneration. [[Applause]] But it is also true, and it is undeniable, that the Villar Mir Group has broad and intense interests in Galicia—without being able to highlight the case commented on by Ferroatlantica, especially worrying about its incidence on the Coast of Death. Because I would ask myself on many occasions, listening to the debates in full and sometimes in committee references — where you are working and where you are debating the segregation requested by the Villar Mir Group — who is actually writing the script of this segregation. It's a question, it's not rhetorical. Let's hope there are answers. Because we cannot forget that Ferroatlantica, in order to be able to exploit our natural resources, has benefited from public concessions subject to the maintenance and generation of jobs, as well as the declaration of public utility for the expropriation of land and for the construction and exploitation of hydroelectric power stations. We are in a long, distressing process for workers and workers of an entire region with a high unemployment rate, suffering from a demographic indentation, and for whom Ferroatlantica is "the factory", it is no longer a factory; a region that was set up in 1992, and which was set up again in March showing its refusal to sell the plants. By the way, of course, the decision made by the German Government in relation to the requested segregation of hydroelectric power stations must be made within the legality. This is almost an obvious thing, I'd miss more! But this is a final decision of a strictly political nature. We are not before a government—or yes?— purely technocratic. The decisions are absolutely political and, of course, within the framework of legality. The Villar Mir Group responds perfectly — it is true — to a complete radiography of lobby activity on many occasions, to a genuine lobbying group; which, as a pressure group, is legitimate, but must be well controlled in its interests and in its actions with the public authorities, in Madrid and Galicia. The agenda of the political representatives, the public office schedule, the meetings of Villar Mir or any representative of Villar Mir's business groups, the ethical code of action of these lobby activities, must be completely regulated and must have absolute transparency. In this respect, let us remember that the regulatory measures in this area of anti-corruption and regulation of lobby actions — and we are facing a paradigmatic case — are certainly being systematically rejected by the People's Party. We don't know why. In the face of this situation, our group has made it clear that, indeed, it will not oppose this investigation commission requested by the BNG and En Marea. If you cause irregularities, you will act accordingly; and if not, the shadow of suspicion would disappear. I think we must be much more rigorous in bringing up questions to formulate committees of inquiry, because if we do not, we are at risk in this House and in any parliamentary chamber, of underestimating the role of the committees of inquiry. What we hope for is that the People's Party will also join this vision in favour of a necessary healthy democracy, of the necessary democratic regeneration. This explanation by our parliamentary group no longer requires arguments, because we have the absolute conviction about the parliamentary role that we are developing in this House. This would then be the position of our parliamentary group. And I hope, on the one hand, that the proposed groups will maintain greater rigour in formulating parliamentary research committees, and that, on the part of the People's Party, they will add to the necessary democratic regeneration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u11	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, they bring to this House today the Nationalist Block Galego and The Tide of Podemos a request for a commission of research for an enterprise group that has obtained contracts with different public administrations in the eido of the autonomous community, both in municipalities and in deputies as well as even in the Union of Galicia, contracts with different public administrations and under different political colors. And this request for a commission of inquiry arises as a result of a judicial investigation that is taking place in Madrid, a judicial investigation that did not request the Galician Board of Directors or a single contract with this company during the investigation. And neither has there been a single indication that there was any connection to the Welsh administration; except, yes, the malicious insults of Mr. Villares who visited there were two control sessions to the President of the Board, telling him that he had already sold the segregation of the power stations in exchange for 700,000 euros of illegal funding from his party. And it's okay. It's all right here. Well, Mr. Villares, after these demonstrations, you are disabled to talk about reasonable doubts. Because reasonable doubts sow you, unique and exclusively you and your group. It's not expected that there will be a firm judgment, here it's called filtrations that come out of legal summaries — whether they're secret or not. Sounds like a lie, Mr. Villares, that you're a judge. That's since Mr. Feijóo is a toxic bacterium until he falsely accuses him of a crime. Because that's what you did here at that control session. Well, no, ladies, it's not all right. We already know that you broke into politics to destroy institutions, to destroy democracy and to destroy the nobility of politics. And with these vimbios you intend to raise the country? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With these vimbios you intend to give classes of democracy? With these rotten vimbies, do you intend to help political regeneration? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. No, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't contain with us to destroy institutions and democracy. We have a commitment to the Greeks and the Greeks who voted to protect them from you, from those who don't believe in democracy, from those who don't believe in the importance of institutions, from those who don't believe in justice. What do you want with this investigation committee? Well, they don't intend to do a control job, what they're trying to do is do a prospective investigation. They don't know a single contract with these companies that can be fraudulent, they don't know a single concession or a single adjudication that doesn't scrupulously comply with the current legislation. But they want to sow the doubt, they want to make the policy of ink of the squid, sow the doubts and put everything under suspicion. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a trial, this is a parliament. Let justice work, which is the only one who investigates, accuses and prosecutes. You want to do that in a parliament. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the work of a parliament, they stop confusing people. If they want to be on the side of the law, take the side of the owners who occupy their homes and condemn the actions and demonstrations of the violent and the criminals. If they want to stand by the law, they defend Venezuelan pensioners who don't charge their pensions. [[Applause]] Because, in doubt of illegal funding, I believe that in the full past it has become quite clear what is your position on Mr Maduro and what are the suspicions that are sown on the financing of Podemos. [[Applause]] You got on the side of Maduro instead of the Venezuelan pensioners who don't charge your pension. [[Applause]] You don't stand on the side of justice, you don't want justice, you want to settle. But you know what's going on, Mr. Villares? That you underestimate people's intelligence and think the people are ignorant and alienated. But the Greeks know their real face, and that's why we keep winning elections and you keep losing votes. We agree with the Socialist Party that, indeed, a general cause cannot be opened for nothing and that there is no doubt about contracts. If you think there's a fraudulent contract, that you haven't complied with the binding legislation, I, Mr. Villares, am going to transfer you to Madrid or present here in some court the evidence you have. Or what do you intend, to do a prospective investigation? Where did you study the opposition, Mr. Villares? What kind of prospective investigation is allowed in a rule of law, Mr. Villares? Is prospective investigation reasonable for you? Good. We agree with the Socialist Party that, indeed, this is a purely propagandistic position of nationalists. Mr. Leicega's words are "easy populism". Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that this is cheap populism. And the only way to dignify politics is to act vigorously against the corrupt, that justice comes to the end, and not to make parallel and media judgments that nothing would lead to clarifying the truth or being on the side of the law. Mrs. Pontón, you still have in your ranks, accused, Mr. Fernando Blanco, who was Industry Counsellor at the time of the Bipartite. His position, according to his reflections, according to the demonstrations he just said here right now, would be to do an investigation, because they are under suspicion all the contracts that the Bipartite of Galician Union made when he ruled and sat in a chair of the Council of Union Mr. Fernando Blanco. That's his way of thinking. [[Applause]] Yeah, look, we don't agree with that. [[Murmurs.]] OHL has just obtained a contract in the Crown Deputy for 2.5 million for the conditioning of the Calvo Sotelo Residence. Who rules the Crown Deputy, gentlemen? So he ruled the Socialist Party with the Galician Nationalist Block and the Red Seas of Podemos. Are you still under suspicion of that contract in the Crown Deputy? Oh, no, they're only under suspicion by the administrations of the People's Party. Funny statement, gentlemen! Well, we don't think that because Mr. Fernando Blanco is charged with BNG, even though he also has grey areas -- because there's also a judicial investigation into some incomes in the BNG accounts, which seem to be not well-accredited -- he's also under judicial investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, and talking about grey areas, too, The Tides. We've just heard about the report of the Board of Auditors on the September 25 election, and there's also a sort of microcredit that's not... or the people who do it... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u15	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. That's what people don't want to hear. They just want to talk and they just want to be heard from them. That has a name, and you know it well, because they usually use it, but I'm not going to say it. Look, you didn't care about the deficiencies they had in their justification for spending on the election campaign. The Board of Auditors returned those papers to them. And what did you guys do with the papers? Make handwritten annotations. Curious way of solving mistakes, gentlemen! But they have microcredit that did not declare the Fairy for property transmission tax and documented legal acts. The Board of Auditors therefore considers these to be pledges. And, ladies and gentlemen, we don't know if these patients now enjoy contracts in the administrations in which The Tides of Podemos govern, because according to Mr. Villares, prayers only make them their friends. Well, I suppose, Mr. Villares, that your friends would give you these donations or undeclared microcredit and that you will now be hiring with the administrations in which you rule. We can't talk about this because we don't know the patients, nor do we know how much they hurt them. Well, we, if we had done the same policy that you do — which is not our style — would have sown a doubt about all these issues that I just told them. But we're not going to do it, because we're going to be serious and strict. We believe in the performance of justice, and there is no more transparency than a judicial investigation. And a judicial investigation reaches where no parliamentary investigation comes in. They don't say here that parliamentary research is the greatest and best instrument of control over a government. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is true for you to be in the press for a long time, sowing doubts, like silence, with ink, scattering doubts and putting all contracts with these companies under suspicion. We're not going to give them that ease you want. If they want to make politics, they do it with other things, they make proposals that solve people's problems. Because, look, we, to combat corruption, approved five laws in fifty days: reform of the Law of the Board of Auditors, the financing of political parties, the participation of the citizen, the legal aid, which prevents public funds from being used...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u17	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u18	...in the defense of corruption processes and the law of transparency and good government, and you didn't support that legislation. We believe absolutely in the separation of powers. Let justice act and fall all the weight of the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u19	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u20	...on the corrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u21	Quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u22	And from Parliament we have to legislate and give them tools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u23	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u24	...to the judges to fight that corruption. [[Murmurs.]] I'm done, Mr. President. The People's Group will vote that no. And that's why we're not going to ask the Deputy of the Crown or all Bipartite contracts to be investigated. We're not going to fall into the cheap populism of the Podemos tides, in which today also falls the Galician Nationalist Block. We're not going to destabilize politics, we're going to consider these debates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u26	...by generating a generalized doubt about all the contracts that the Galician Union makes, because, in addition, as Mr. Leicega said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u28	...that may have the effect that there is no investment in our autonomous community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica from parliamentary groups. First of all, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u30	Very good day again. I believe that I will recommend to the President that he conduct a course of democracy in this Parliament, because the committees of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and also of the Socialist Party, are not to investigate what is being investigated in the courts, of course, no, nor do they have to investigate irregularities. [[Applause]] As the House of Parliament's own Rules of Procedure have said, they are to investigate issues of general interest for Galicia. And I wonder if it's not a matter of general interest to investigate what's going on with the sale of the Xallas power stations, which can throw 300 workers and workers on the Death Coast, and if you're not interested in all the Welsh and Welsh people who are concerned about the corruption of the People's Party to find out that an entrepreneur appears in the papers of Basel, who is again investigated by the corruption of the People's Party and who has important business that derives from public concessions, many of them finger-adjusted by the People's Party. [[Applause]] Why are they afraid that this is investigated and that we know the contracts and that, for example, Mr. Villar Mir can come here and explain to us in exchange for what he gave the dedication to the Manuel Fraga Foundation? I think it's a question that many Germans and Greeks are asking right now. Or why did the current Galician Union give you three concessions, which you now want to sell? Because that is what Mr Feijóo did — absent from this debate — when he allowed him to have concessions that were expired — continue ahead. Or we would also like to know whether or not the branch councillor met with Ferroatlantica's address before they filed the formal request for segregation and what conversations there were in that request. We want to know why the former Galician Union — including the People's Party — allowed Villar Mir to use the Xallas River power stations to build, not more employment on the coast of Death, but a tower in Castellana or a luxury urbanization in Canalejas. These are questions that we all ask ourselves and that I would like to know. Why is the People's Party not interested in this being investigated? And they come here to make absolutely insulting accusations. Yes, yes, disparaging. [[Protests.]] And accusations, Your Honor, for which if you, Mrs. Prado, had no parliamentary immunity, I would probably be on a trial. He'd be on a trial! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's been a while! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u32	It's been a while, Mrs. Prado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u33	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u34	You've already been on trial.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u35	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u36	Of course you do! Defaming people, Mrs. Prado. The only political organization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u38	...in the whole Spanish state and in the whole history of democracy charged with corruption is the People's Party. It's the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u39	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u40	You're the only ones. [[Applause]] Look, do you know that's what politics despairs? The widespread corruption we see in the PP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u42	Do you know what this Parliament despises? That committees of inquiry should not be allowed. Today we have one more evidence in the press; we see that not only is this commission of inquiry needed, but also the commission of inquiry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u44	...of English, isn't it? Bite and works made with poor quality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u46	That's why they don't want this Parliament to be able to investigate, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u48	Mr. President. Villar Mir's contracts are clear that they have been with many public administrations of different political parties. But there is only one party that manages these public administrations that is charged with corruption and illegal financing, only one, which is the People's Party. That's the little difference. [[Applause]] They say, "Not in Galicia!" Not in Galicia, because it's a different party from the People's Party of Spain! [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] It's a different game! [[Murmurs.]] But it's nice that Feijóo is part of the state leadership of that different party. [[Murmurs.]] It's strange! [[Applause]] It's funny! [[Applause]] The defendant is not the People's Party of Madrid — they read the instruction in the part that is published — he is the People's Party of Spain, in whose summit directive is Núñez Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, there's Feijóo Nuñez! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Bad luck! Bad luck! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Ask Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u50	...where I studied law. At a public university in Galicia! That's where we study Right. At a public university! [[Applause]] At a public university in Galicia! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u51	Quiet. Quiet, Mrs. Prado! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you've been in the debate. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, he didn't ask. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you made a statement and he's responding to that statement. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] And it wasn't exactly where you studied, that I'm paying attention, it was about how the opposition was... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u52	That's how it was!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u53	I'm paying attention! I don't want it to go unnoticed. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u54	And you know why you can't study opposition at a public university? Because it's not planned. Ahhhh! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u55	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u56	And you know what happened? While I was studying the opposition, do you know where your boss was? Passing by the boat with... what was his name? Did Martial Dorado call him? [[Murmurs.]] We've all been through it, but some of us were surrounded by laws and other drug traffickers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u58	Well, what are we gonna do to him? Life is like this! The past is like this. So, everyone has their past. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] If you want law lessons, we can talk about law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u59	No, don't get into it. Don't interfere.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u60	No, of course, we haven't seen you make firm judgments here, it's not the function of an investigation commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u61	Quiet. We shall end the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u62	...a firm judgment, because an investigation commission has the function of determining proven facts of a criminal offence, and it's not its function. It may contribute to the discovery of illegal criminal acts, but also administrative wrongs and the determination of political responsibilities. Didn't I know? That day wasn't the class, was it? Well, what are we going to do with it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u64	Who doesn't believe in justice? He says we don't believe in justice. Who doesn't believe in justice, the ones who change prosecutors and make them suckers, those who have that weakness, who get lost by the chalets? Because here's a systematic problem: we've got chalets!, Ignacio González with chalets! [[Murmurs.]] Well, with the chalets not, they have a serious problem with that. [[Applause]] The ones who remove judges? [[Applause]] What do they put on and take off judges, how do research and telephone conversations reveal? [[Murmurs.]] Is that respect for justice? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u66	Is that respect for justice?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u67	Quiet, please. Quiet. We're done with the debate. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u68	Who sows the doubt about Villar Mir's performances?, the Group of En Marea, the Comarca da Costa da Morte or a company that, without administrative authorization, registers it in the BORM with complete certainty that the Government will grant you permission here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u70	Yes, subject, of course, to be granted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u71	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u72	But they know more. They know what the end is because they know what friends are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u73	Thank you, Mr. Villares. The debate was closed, and we voted on the request for the commission of inquiry to be set up. Close the doors, please. We shall proceed to the vote. We voted on the request for the commission of inquiry to be set up. We vote. Voting of the request to set up an inquiry committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP. the Galego Nationalist and En Marea Bloc, to investigate the authorizations, contracts, concessions and, in general, all the relations of the Villar Mir group with the Italian public sector, including the follow-up, analysis and investigation of the attempt to sell and segregation of the Xallas and Grande rivers centrals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The creation of the investigation commission is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u74	We move on to agenda item 2, sorry, it's 40 votes against because Mr. Puy has a delegated vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you for that point, I didn't realize. It's 40 negative votes and 34 votes in favour. Thank you. We move on to the second point of the agenda. Comprehensive discussion of the draft legislation on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u75	This bill has been amended by an amendment to the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group. The Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u76	Thank you very much. Good morning. Let's see if we're down a little bit by tone and we're talking about something that we also understand important from this council and from the Government of Galicia. And, in fact, I'd like to begin my intervention by recalling a phrase from Gandhi, which said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way it treats its animals. And precisely for that, and responding to an electoral commitment we had, this government brings to this Parliament the draft of the new Act on the Protection and Welfare of Pets in Galicia. Any legal text which is debated and put to the vote in this Parliament is undoubtedly important, but we believe that this law is of particular relevance, because it directly affects the welfare of pets, because it is designed to combat abandonment and animal abuse, promoting the adoption of abandoned animals and the awareness of society, and because it comes to respond to a feeling that we understand the majority of the population of Greece, increasingly aware of the need to protect our pets, and because in some way we are convinced — and I hope that this parliamentary procedure will be found — that this will be one of the most advanced and complete legal texts in this area of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, all the groups we represent in this House agree that Galicia needed a new Act on the protection and welfare of pets. So it was reflected in all the electoral programs that were presented, because we are convinced that Galicia needs a new standard that is adapted after more than 20 years without any kind of update. From the first moment we were aware that it had to be a law developed with maximum consensus and implication. That's our intention. That is also our intention in this Parliament, but we have demonstrated it because we have been talking to all social agents and also to all protector associations. We wanted all those who wanted to carry out approaches to the text to do so, and that participation proved to be fruitful in some way. In fact, we have incorporated into the text that we are presenting to you today many of the allegations that brought us these associations. Today we want to complete this process of dialogue by listening carefully to all proposals made by the parliamentary groups, whenever they are to add. If so, they'll all be welcome. I think it's a law where it's worth our extra effort to reach a consensus. This law, as I said, has three essential objectives for our community: the first of all is the pursuit of animal abuse, in all aspects in which it is present; the second, the fight against the abandonment of animals, promoting its adoption; the third, the promotion of the awareness of Greek society for animal welfare, favoring our autonomous community conduct that is responsible for it, for the defense of animals and for its responsible nature. These are the three great axes that pursue this new legal text, which I will try in some way to synthesize in this intervention. I will begin this exhibition explaining the need for Galicia to have this new law. As you know, more than two decades have passed since the current regulatory framework was approved and we consider that two decades is too long. During this long period, the need to harmonise the content of the legislation and also to update it is imperative, but it is also time to establish a law that is more demanding from the health and environmental point of view and, above all, from the welfare of animals. From the German Government we are aware that we have to adapt to the social reality that already lives in our community and that it is increasingly sensitive to the animal environment. Proof of this greater social awareness is the fact that in the last ten years the rate of discharges that has been set in the Galego Animal Identification Register has doubled. That's how it went from more than 19,000 registered in 2006 to 43,000, about 44,000, registered last year. Today there's the census, this Regiac, 400,000 animals registered. Moreover, the experience accumulated in this matter in recent years tells us that the objectives of the 1993 Law are largely met and that it has become obsolete, because in an adult society certain conducts are no longer understood. We need to respond especially to phenomena such as maltreatment and also animal abandonment, and we want to address the new social sensibilities in the field of animal protection. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before the most ambitious and comprehensive law that today is in the national territory and a text that will allow us to equate ourselves with other states of the European Union most prominent in the issue of animal protection, thus putting in place one of the most reasonable and strict laws in our surroundings and providing Galicia with a law that guarantees the highest level of protection for pets. [[Applause]] As I explained at the beginning of my intervention, one of the main purposes of this text is the pursuit of animal abuse in all its aspects, through broad regulation consistent with the objectives to be achieved. In the face of this situation, we are obliged to respond consistently, and that is why we not only focus on the concept of abuse as violence perpetrated against animals, but also take into account the hygienic and health conditions in which they live and the ethical needs necessary for their development. We have established mechanisms for the prevention of ill-treatment, the fight against such ill-treatment and punishment in the case of animal behavior. Among the main developments in this law is the prohibition of animal slaughter in the collection centres, except as a last resort to those situations of emergency and protection of animal welfare itself, and we establish that this must always be an approved and carried out by a professional. We also bet on the prohibition of such behaviors that involve mutilation in animals for purely aesthetic or racial reasons. We also established the prohibition on the use of wild animals in shows such as circuses, thus extending to all of Galicia a measure that is already adopted in more than seventy municipalities, and we do so because we consider this decision to collect the majority of the population of Galicia. And you won't be allowed to use animals as a reward or prize in public events as a claim or a street sale. Finally, among other matters, the law also includes the prohibition of the use of all kinds of mechanisms or tools designed to prevent or limit the mobility of an animal that produces pain, suffering, unnecessary stress or maintain an unnatural position. The shooting of scenes of animal cruelty is also forbidden. The second end of this draft protection law is the fight against the abandonment of animals. In order to shorten this situation in our community, this law empowers and facilitates the adoption of abandoned animals. And for the first time, it incorporates a new concept, which is temporary reception, a new figure that is from the foster home, with the objective of facilitating the adoption of abandoned animals and thus improving their well-being. It's a temporary reception regime where care, care and hygienic-sanitary conditions that the animal needs are guaranteed, and it'll always be conditional on its return when a final adopter appears. What we're trying to do is extend to all of Galicia measures that have been developed in recent years by citizens, also by associations committed to animal welfare, to address with their means the problem of animal abandonment. In addition, and as a measure to combat this abandonment, we will reinforce the obligation to identify with microchip the registration of all animals of a canine species and not only the potentially dangerous ones. This identification will be a more effective tool to fight against the abandonment of animals, facilitates their recovery when they are extravagant or stolen, helps to ensure health control of the dog population and contributes more significantly to the protection of animal welfare. As a novelty, the law will also regulate the creation of feline colonies as a management model in which the citizen can participate and which is born with the aim of establishing a health control of reproduction of the populations of these animals, which are settled mainly in urban areas. In the objective of the fight against animal abandonment, it is fair to recall the important work they are developing and continue to develop animal protection and defense associations, which must be registered in the Galego Register of Associations. Our goal in this set of actions is to make Galicia a community free of animal abandonment. We'll do everything in our hand to walk towards that goal. And the third of the axes on which the law revolves is the promotion and impulse of the awareness of Greek society around the welfare and protection of pets. We believe that an animal's responsible tendance is the best way to prevent abandonment and ill-treatment. That's why we give particular importance to the dissemination, education and information about animal welfare and what it means to have a pet. To achieve this goal, we will launch information campaigns, promoting and disseminating the knowledge of this law among schoolchildren and also across society. What we want — of course — is to raise awareness of the Greek society that having a pet entails obligations that must be met. And we also bet on promoting the knowledge of the animal world, contributing to more responsible and civic conduct of people in respect of, defense and preservation of animals. We found ourselves before a widely consensual law. We consulted with everyone who had something to say in this matter. In addition, we held numerous briefings with agents, with sectors of society most involved in animal protection, and we had working meetings with sixteen entities and associations from all over Galicia and even state. In short, we carried out a wide and intense period of consultations, which aimed to give greater dissemination to the content of the law and to achieve a text that took into account the opinion and sensitivity of all the associations and agents directly involved. Once the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Pets in Galicia receives Parliament's approval, we will proceed to draw up the regulation which will develop it and will be ready, after approval, within a maximum period of one year. This rule will be just one more step in our commitment to the protection of animals and will be accompanied, as it cannot be otherwise, by measures that will complete it and strengthen it. And so, then, we will launch a sterilization campaign of animals that will reduce the number of abandoned animals by means of reproductive control of populations, and even create a line of help to promote actions for the protection and welfare of pets by municipalities and by protective associations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have a firm commitment not only to making Gandhi's sentence come true, but those three objectives that we are including within this law and even aspire to be an autonomous community of reference in the national territory, as is the Netherlands country in the European Union. We know that Galicia needed an up-to-date and inclusive legislation, and that's why we've been working on it for many months, debating, talking and listening, because our aspiration is that this new law is a project of consensus, of country, and with a guarantee of the future. That's why, in its elaboration, we listen to the proposals of all the agents involved and discuss them with them and incorporate their allegations. Now our wish is that, on this path that starts in this Parliament, we can also find the desired consensus in the House, because I am convinced that we all want to achieve a maximum consensus in this law, which is aimed at reaching the level of protection for the welfare of pets. A law that will allow the welfare of animals to be compatible with their enjoyment by people, avoiding their ill-treatment, that will respond to the need to achieve social, peaceful and secure coexistence, and that will preserve the welfare of pets, seeking to respond to the demands of citizenship in the face of abandonment and animal abuse, thereby consolidating the awareness and education of citizenship in this regard. This text will undoubtedly be a very valuable tool for the advancement of the whole of Galician society in this matter. We are convinced that this bill needs it from the community of the present, but we are also convinced that this bill will be the guarantor of Galicia's future, a Galician that respects, protects and defends its pets. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u77	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now move on to the defense of the amendment to its entirety and position on the bill. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning. I take advantage of all animal associations, animal protection associations, animal shelters, professionals, veterinary schools and anonymous people who have brought us hundreds of amendments to this draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia, which we are debating today. And I also use it to greet many of those people who accompany us here today as guests. That said, Counsellor, there are no proposals from the parliamentary groups here to debate today. Here today we are debating a whole amendment to a People's Party Government bill; that's what we came to debate. [[Applause]] And it's important to know that it's a whole amendment, a proposal for a change that is made to an official document, which can involve only the request for a return, which is what happens in this case, or bring in an alternative text. But, above all, and also when it is before a bill, it is an opportunity to open debate, because, if there were no amendments to the whole, this debate today would not have existed; it would simply go to the committee, we would speak in committee of the partial amendments, but we would not have opened debate and you would not be here presenting this draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia. [[Applause]] What I don't know is if it's going to do a lot of good, considering this presentation that next week you're going to make in a luxury hotel on Tuesday; it's a presentation of a morning inviting certain people to talk about: "Presentation of the Protection and Welfare Bill of pets in Galicia, June 13, 2017, Santiago de Compostela." It is an absolute lack of respect for this House to make a presentation and to inform it in advance of the amendment to the whole debate today in this Parliament, it is a lack of absolute respect, because it could happen that half of its Members voted in favour of the amendment to the whole and, therefore, the bill no longer existed as such and they could not take a course a week coming on a text that is not yet final. In addition, you are invited to speak of social demands for animals transferred to the political level, a political party that is not represented in this House. We have the most absolute respect for all the political parties that did not get a seat in the Galician Parliament, as is the case with this political party, but we believe that all we have worked on this text that if we are represented here we would have something to say on that day, on that day's day of joy that you will celebrate next week, skipping the Galician Parliament. [[Applause]] Having said this, this amendment to the whole has not been submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group either by opportunism or by political strategy, as the Director General of Natural Heritage said the other day. By the way, when we asked him a question about animal circuses in our autonomous community used in their shows, you decided that they wouldn't give us the reason. We do so because the Rules of the House give us the opportunity to present a whole amendment and because the Members of this bench work with all those people who come down to the mud, who pick up dogs every day, who wash them, who seek their lives to feed the abandoned dogs and cats so they don't die of hunger. And because we do believe in the debate. And I repeat to you that, thanks to this amendment to all of us, today you came up here to talk to us about this bill. And, above all, because this law, which we have in force, is twenty-four years old... by the way, counsellor, if it has changed. It's not true, as you said before, that this law, this text had no change. You said, "more than twenty years without an update"; that's what you literally said, because I copied it as I was saying it. It was changed in 2014 to update sanctions; therefore, it is reformed and modified. You've been moving this project since the past legislating — much more than a year — and the result is a text — gives us the feeling — made from an office by people planning above animals and that the only thing they do is organize courses to talk about a text that has not yet been approved in Parliament. It seems the feeling is, let's put the media focus on the people who are going to hang up a medal to defend the animals. This bill seems like a missed opportunity to regulate the abandonment of domestic animals, Taurine parties, which animals we talk about when we talk about circuses with animals or horse abuse, without dialogue — as I said — with those people who come down to the mud every day and without dialogue with the rural world. In this amendment we show the spirit of all those people and those associations that we were talking about before, which made us conform to the amendment to the whole and the 53 partial amendments that we also present to this text, which hardly has fifty articles. We understand it must be improved, and much. This spirit can center it on the incorrectness for us of its title. He speaks of "companion animals" and we understand that it is to retreat from the Law of 1993, which speaks of "domestic animals", which are those who create or possess a man, a woman, in order to live in domesticity in the home. We understand that it would be a concept that includes pets and would be more appropriate. This law also violates the 2007 Organic Law, the 2004 Welsh Law, as regards equality between men and women, because when it speaks of the Advisory Committee on Animal Protection, it says nothing, it makes no explicit reference to the mandatory balanced presence of men and women. I should specifically pick it up. We know that this is not important for you, but for us, it is important that in advisory committees, business boards and in all kinds of bodies women are represented at least 40%, and we believe that this should be explicitly reflected in this law. You have just said that you have an end, that is to avoid abandonment, "conceived to fight against animal abandonment" — I say expressly. Well, sometimes it seems that what you want to favor is the disappearance of animals, because the deadlines for contacting... President, I would like you not to have me reprimanded from the People's Party's benches. Because I'm talking and I hear a runrunrun, a runrunrunrun, which I'd like you to... If you have the right, tell Mr. Trenor that, if you want, when you get out here, tell me what you want, but don't tell me during... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u79	I would ask you to continue, to keep Members quiet, those of the People's Group bench, and also before there was a runrunrun when you were talking about your colleagues, who certainly didn't try to interrupt her, and I think there's no interruption. Anyway, I beg you to keep quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u81	...including some Members of the Socialist Group who tend to make quite noise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u82	Thank you very much. I beg you to let me continue, because time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u83	Don't worry, we'll take it from time to time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u84	Thank you, President. It seems that, as I said, it seems to favor the disappearance of animals, because the deadlines to find the owner of animals, to communicate with them, are so short that what seems to favor is not abandonment, but just the opposite. This law should -- and so also say animal defence collectives -- make it compulsory to identify all kinds of animals and to fight for the protection and well-being of horses -- equidae have no specific legislation, advisor -- of animals employed in any type of Taurine show, including closures, because you again supported bull abuse. You were talking here about bull abuse as if the bulls were not animals and, therefore, they did not suffer abuse, when, when, at the entrance, if they were drawn into a sword to be able to kill them in the bull market; a spectacle which, on the other hand, we are serious, counsellor, is not part of the historical and cultural heritage of our autonomous community. As for circus animals, it would be good if you, in addition to banning the use in the circuses of wild animals, of wild animals, created — and so on, our amendments — an observatory for assessing the use of animals that are not wild in the circuses — the dogs, which are very common — and that could work for a time — we gave you a year — to observe the conditions in which these animals live and decide whether or not to prohibit their use in future times. You don't recognize the selfless work of associations and protectors in defense of animals. There are articles that exclude all those associations that have not been declared public utility, there are articles that do not allow the work of volunteers or volunteers in cases of abandonment of animals, and there are articles in which they are not expressly recognized as interested under the Administrative Procedure Act of 2015 in case an administrative infringement procedure has been initiated; articles 4, 22 and 29, have names and have specific numbers. Counsellor, this Advisory Committee on Animal Protection is very good, and protective entities know that they take it into account, but you don't collect anything in the project about campaigns and awareness-raising initiatives for the general population about the future content of the law. And for us, in all areas, prevention, awareness-raising and education are perhaps more important than subsequent actions, which we already see are not always dissuasive. And with regard to the sanctioning procedure, not only do sanctions remain the same as in 2014 – and we are in 2017 – but you do not even claim the possibility of modifying through a decree annually, in accordance with the IPC, and updating these sanctions – therefore, a new reform would be necessary in this Parliament of the law that was already in force to update them every time; it is much longer, much more complex – but, in addition, you allow to hang advertising with the names of those people who have committed some kind of infringement, going against the doctrine of the General Council of the Judiciary Power and the most recent doctrine of the Galeg Data Protection Agency. I would not want to end without making a small reference to the partial amendments that we have made to this text, because it should not exclude bulls, it should not exclude the equidae — as we have already said — but should exclude the damage that may originate — we believe — the dogs of personal assistance — the hounds of lazarillos, those employed in therapeutic treatments for people or in integration and social reintegration programs, the guard dogs and livestock management, the shepherds, the police and military activities, those of hunting practice or any other kind of activity that pursues a social end during the transfer and development of their work and training. Because it might be a coward, a police dog or a mastic taking care of a shepherd's sheep suffer damage while they do their work and we understand that they shouldn't be punished. You should forbid chains, cables, ropes or necklaces that cause drowning or pinchos necklaces. They should care about the animals that wait inside the containers when the vehicles are parked, not only those that are inside the vehicles, but also inside the containers, and thus respect the European Union's legislation. They should, as I told them earlier, include this assessment observatory for non-wild animals working in circuses. They shouldn't sanction, not penalize having more or less animals inside the house. Yesterday a friend of mine who has six cats told me if he's going to have to ask the Galician Board for permission to keep his six cats in his house. And only if you should communicate or request authorisation in the case of animals when you have more than five when it comes to people who want a profit with layers or when it comes to zoological nuclei, not in other cases; that's what we understand. You cannot make the feline colonies solely the responsibility of the municipalities and should put a transitional period prudential - we give them a year too - so that they can be conditioned by the municipalities, which are left by God's hand. And you should subscribe to collaboration agreements with protective entities and associations. And then this is again the Advisory Committee on Animal Protection — what we have already talked about — in which politicians who do not believe in absolute awareness of animal protection and welfare should not cut their seats. Finally, counselor, a wrong text for us that should be returned to bring another more negotiated text to this House, except that you consider this project presentation to be much more important in a luxury hotel by the Galician Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. We now begin the round in favour or against the amendment or spokespersons of the non-amendant groups. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u86	Thank you, President. Good morning. First of all, I would like to thank publicly for the work done by all the groups, and mainly by the animal protection associations, which brought us their approach, their amendments, in order to be able to carry out the work of enrichment and improvement — which we believe is of course highly improved — of this text, this draft directive on the welfare of pets. And before I get to the bottom of the matter, I'd like to refer to two pre-questions, which are formal issues, but also substantive, and very deep issues, because the background and form, especially when we talk about legal texts, is very important. The first question has to do with language correction. This text adopted by the Board of Trustees has an innumerable number of grammatical and lexic errors, and it seems to us that it is an obligation to extreme care and respect for language, written language, spoken language, something which, of course, does not take much care of in this Parliament and in this text since then adopted. In official documents and speeches we have to be extremely careful and correct and the public use of language must be a model, an example and also the measure of what matters to us, starting, by the President of the Galician Union, which is the best example you can give. And I don't know if he's studying English, whether he's improving English, or whether he's mastering it, but of course not, in Greek, he should study it, he should improve it, he should give an example and, for example, learn that in Greek he doesn't say "crisi" -- "crisis" -- and so many other mistakes in his speeches. There is another formal issue that seems also important to us, which has to do with non-sexist normative language, and this appears in the gender impact reports and other reports of the Legal Counsel, which indicate that the law does not respect this issue. And there are expressions like "two possessors" and "two possessors" of domestic animals, which can be solved with expressions as simple as "of possessors and owners of domestic animals", and so in many other cases, that should be taken into account in improving and correcting the text. And by going to the analysis, to the general criticism of the document, it seems to us, of course, that in many respects it is a reversal of the previous regulation, to the 1993 Law is very behind other autonomous regulations that have been adopted in recent years and therefore is a missed opportunity, at least at least, to make a really advanced law, according to the times and that it is the fruit of participation and broad agreement. And it seems to me a daring, Counselor, that you come here to tell us that it is the most ambitious and complete law in the world or in Europe. See, in no European country would admit a text like this, which allows for the abuse and torture of animals like peas; in no European country would allow such a text; of course, in Holland, which you quoted here, you would not accept a law like this; therefore, do not set as an example a law that allows such barbarities. [[Applause]] Of course, it's a law that in its own name, in its own name, is a reductionist, because it speaks of "company animals," when the previous text told us about the protection and well-being of "home animals and wild animals in captivity"; therefore, this is already a starting point, at first, that must be corrected and that must be improved. And there are many other eves and deficiencies in the preliminary draft, as it has pointed out, in addition to manifesto, in an absolutely devastating and powerful report, the General Legal Counsel, who has made an authentic suit to you in a report of 82 pages that is absolutely demolition, and which has highlighted, for example, the deficiencies and deficiencies that have been processed by the preliminary draft and as to participation or how for example to the intervention of the Galego Council for the Protection of Domestic Animals and Savings in Cativity, that you put into the text that had issued a report on it, when you actually did not report, and we feel extremely grave that a text like this does not have a report of this advice. And that's a defect already of birth, of origin, important as to the lack of participation, information and public debate. And it also seems to us that there has been an important deficit of participation in the intervention of associations working in the field of animal protection; otherwise, how does this avalanche just come to us in the last few weeks of additions, amendments, proposals for improvement and new drafting or replacement of the text presented by all these groups? And even today there is a cry against it, because outside this very Parliament there is a concentration of collectives working on this issue, which are the people most interested in having a good law, who are criticizing this document. Therefore, no consensus, no consultation or report of the Galego Council for the Protection of Domestic and Wild Animals. Therefore, lack of participation. You made a song here too to associations, and that song, that praise of associations, does not correspond later to practice, to reality, and to the very wording of the text of the law, because you don't give them the recognition that these groups deserve, starting out because it doesn't establish, for example, the need for help to collaborate in supporting the altruistic activities, solidarity, benefactors and humanitarians that make these collectives, which are the ones that are allowing them to fight against the abandonment of animals right now. So that task must be recognized, but we must legally recognize it, and we must recognize it above all with economic aid that will facilitate their work, so that it does not fall into their own pockets. And in the text itself and in the explanatory statement they talk about, for example, campaigns of awareness and education and adoption, and, curiously, they put something like the following: "cooperation of the administration with them in awareness campaigns." How does the Administration collaborate with the associations? It may be necessary to establish mechanisms for associations to have an area of work that enables them to strengthen and collaborate in the work of the Administration, but who has to do the main work must be the Administration and then support the work of the associations. And/or the obligation to declare public ownership, which is much more restrictive and demanding than the legal framework we have now for associations and which will make their work even more difficult. In the background, the basic design is to take over the private management of these permitted and welcoming centres, to the detriment of the work of associations. There are other aspects of the text that also seem to us to be important, for example in the division of powers between the autonomous administration and the municipalities. There are shared and cross-competences here, and then there are obligations of the municipalities without any further funding of those competences and responsibilities. By entering into concrete aspects of the articulation of the law, we are inescapable — of course, the BNG will not support it and will combat this drafting — the exclusion of certain practices, the exclusion of the equidae in the text, the exclusion of the tourists in the text, and this role that the People's Party plays in defending the excellence of Spanish traditions, traditions of abuse, traditions of violence and animal abuse. Look, I'm going to read a text that says: "The bullfighting is the infamous and commercialized art of torture and killing animals in public." This text was drafted by UNESCO, a United Nations organization for education, science and culture. Take note, apply it in the Spanish State, apply it in Galicia and prohibit that cruel and inhuman spectacle of abuse of animals that are tourd. Of course, the BNG is going to battle this document and also with the handling of the bill that you presented to this Parliament in the previous legislation and also in the present one to pass a law prohibiting the tournaments in Galicia. And we also want to extend that ban to other practices of abuse of animals in public shows, because the text speaks of generic prohibitions, for example the use of animals in fighting, parties and shows or any other activity that leads to ill-treatment, cruelty or suffering, and then such practices as bullies are allowed. We also find it incomplete and improving the drafting of animals in circuses. Title I does not refer to pet animals; we think that this question should also be included; it is only about the prohibition of use and the keeping of wild animals in circuses. And we also think that it should be taken into account and given what happens to these wild animals that cease to be used in circuses, because the experience and knowledge of reality tells us, of course — and they worry a lot — the final fate of these animals. Also, of course, since the BNG we have shared the idea defended by virtually all animalistic collectives and also by veterinary professionals that we must include in the law the identification of all domestic animals, also in the case of feline and furons, by the way, as has already been done in other communities, in Madrid and Catalonia, in Cantabria, in Asturias, of course far more advanced than Galicia in this matter. So don't come here pretending to be such an advanced law that goes behind others that you've been approving in the last few years. Identification must be done for reasons of prevention of abuse and abandonment and also for reasons of health care. We are also very concerned about the wording given in the text to the question of euthanasia and the linkage of sacrifice in some way implied. We think it's an intentionally ambiguous wording, which includes assumptions too wide that can really be a cull for sacrifice and where we talk about motivated reasons, animal health, public health, security of people and environmentals for euthanasia. I don't know what they mean by the environmental reasons for euthanasia, but it seems to us that there may be a pretext for an animal sacrifice here. And there's also concern about our part about certain expressions that appear in the articulated. For example, in Article 23 concerning the abandonment of domestic animals, which after those deadlines, which seem to us to be completely shallow and too short, establish the possibility of the municipalities to give them the fate that is legally appropriate, and also for the reception centres, which are empowered to give them the destination that is legally appropriate. But what kind of writing is this? It seems to us that it is a drafting, of course, intentionally ambiguous to give them proceedings since they are not the ones that should be given in an animal protection framework. Another important asset of the document has to do with the Advisory Committee on Animal Protection. It seems to us that in its functions and composition it is a very restrictive committee; it seems to us that it has an excessively bureaucratic composition, that there is a hyperrepresentation of the Administration, as it often happens in all these advisory councils and committees. And what you want is to create a domesticated body, that doesn't follow up, that doesn't do evaluation, that doesn't do advice, that doesn't do updating and regulatory development, and above all that doesn't make proposals for advanced, really advanced public policies, which is the function that should have an advisory council, an advisory council for these characteristics. It also seems to us that as far as the sanctioning regime is a very good text, and BNG, of course, has made amendments in that sense. For example, the wording of the prohibition and the penalty for people who feed animals on public roads seems to us to be an aberration, we think they have since changed it, that they cannot put this issue in a text, like the ban on the collection of abandoned animals. And, therefore, the text should be improved, it should be corrected, desecrated and allowed these altruistic and humanitarian behaviours of the people who feed and collect animals in the public street and, on the contrary, by hardening practices and attitudes of ill-treatment that have a penalty, to our understanding, too smooth in the text, that they qualify as minor infringements, for example if they do not keep animals in adequate hygienic-sanitary conditions or to facilitate sufficiently adequate food and drink to animals. So, in conclusion, it seems to us that it is a law which goes backwards in certain respects with respect to the previous law, which has a defect, a starting water, which is the deficit of participation, of information and of public debate, which is a restrictive law with respect to the previous law, which excludes areas and practices of ill-treatment, from the moment we do not share — like the tourists — which penalises protective behaviors and is permissive with practices of abuse, which gives the backs to the animalist movement and protective associations, which lacks clear and explicit recognition of their work and clear support for their social function, and which is highly improved in time, with debate and without haste, which we think is a sufficiently transcendental issue for them to have behind a large political, institutional and social agreement. From that point on, BNG's arrivals are going in that direction, gathering many proposals that have brought us to the animal protection and animal protection groups of the world. So I end by saying that this is essentially a matter of sense and sensitivity and, as Abraham Lincoln said on his day: "I favor the rights of animals as well as human rights, and this is the only way to be a complete human being." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u87	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u88	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. The first one is to thank all the promotional associations, veterinary schools, trainers and individual people who have collaborated with us in all the work we've been doing around this law. The truth is, I'm very excited, like a human animal that I consider myself, and I'm very excited to be able to work on the improvement of this bill that the Government brings us to the House. I thank my group for this task of getting the best law to ensure the protection and well-being of all the other animals who share their lives with us. A society where animals enjoy rights and are respected, where they live with dignity, is a more just and sensitive society. That's why we are faced with a law of enormous importance to coexistence and training in values. I'm going to quote here a sentence from the philanthropic animal rights defender George Thorndike, who already said in 1868: "Sometimes they ask me: why do you spend so much time and money talking about kindness to animals when there is so much cruelty to human beings? So I say, I'm working on the roots." To only address the problems that are specific to the human species is to attack the symptom but not the cause. When we abuse non-human animals, we do it to ourselves, because we're part of the set of species that make up this planet. And allow me here — I hope not to bore them, because I think it's an important subject and also unknown to a lot of people, and to see if from here we can get to know it — that I remember that there is also a Universal Declaration of the Rights of Animals, of the United Nations. Article 1 says that all animals are born equal before life and have the same rights to existence. Article 2(a) every animal shall have the right to do so. In b) man, as an animal species, cannot be attributed the right to exterminate other animals or to exploit them by violating that right, he has an obligation to place his knowledge in the service of animals. (c) all animals have the right to care, care and protection for men. Article 3 states: no animal shall be subjected to ill-treatment or cruel acts; and in paragraph (b) if the death of an animal is necessary, it shall be instantaneous, painless and not causing distress. In Article 5 (a) it says: any animal belonging to a species that traditionally lives in the man's environment has the right to live and grow at the rhythm and conditions of life and freedom which are the property of its species; any modification of the forward rhythm or of the conditions which were imposed by man for commercial purposes is contrary to that right. And finally, I'm going to quote article 6 of this universal statement: every animal that man chooses as his companion has the right to the duration of his life according to his natural longevity; and finally, the abandonment of an animal is a cruel and degrading act. For all of the above, we are going to fight to try to convince all groups — and of course the government group — that this law is necessary, but we have to work hard to improve it significantly. That's why we'll present more than 65 amendments on that line, amendments that could already be in the bill if it really produced a full, participatory work, with most protective associations, professional schools, trainers, etc. We have actually checked that, with most of them, participation was not so; yes, it is true that you worked with some, but not with the vast majority, as they come to transfer us. And we don't present a whole amendment because we believe that there is progress on the previous Law of 1993, but there are many things to improve and adapt to a very different social reality after twenty-four years, where the awareness of citizenship about animal rights is, fortunately, very majority. Several surveys of the Sociological Research Center result in over 70 percent of citizens have a lot or an important sensitivity to the rights of animals. Take this into account, and let's all take it into account, because if you don't, perhaps many of these citizens will take it into account in three years' time when they're going to vote. We don't want to make this law, which affects fundamental animal rights, a political battle. We pick up the glove offered by the advisor and expect a fruitful job in the commission for the indispensable changes the law needs. The first amendments that we tabled are in line to correct the returning articles with regard to the 1993 Law, which seem inescapable to us. It can't be that, after twenty-four years, we left behind on a subject that socially advanced so much. For this reason, we propose to return to the title of the previous law: "Law on the Protection and Welfare of Domestic and Wild Animals in captivity", which is much more inclusive and much more appropriate to reality than the law has to defend. Then we also proposed that entities, protectors and associations should be declared directly, as was done by the previous law, of public and beneficial-teachers, and not as it is now said, that they must obtain for themselves that title before they are recognized. We think recognition has to be automatic, depending on its activities. There's another issue that's also another step back, which is the matter of feeding wandering or wandering animals on public roads without the corresponding municipal authorization. The former law did not prohibit it or sanction it. We believe that food for humanitarian reasons cannot be prohibited or sanctioned. The road is education, information and management, so that, where necessary, it can be produced in adequate health conditions. And then we're also against the step behind the incorporation that we can't make animal donations that have certain diseases. We think and advocate that sick animals may be adopted, as long as the adopter is fully aware of his or her illnesses. In the previous law, it was cited that the municipalities should establish the reception and reception services, and now they say "power"; we think that we have to go back to the previous writing, not "power", but "should." That's why we make an amendment that marks that all municipalities should have a canister, be it municipal or co-ordinated with other neighbouring municipalities, for the collection of abandoned animals. Priority will also be given to establishing them and financing them to the protectors established in those territories. That would greatly facilitate the end of this measure. The deadlines for an animal to be considered abandoned are also very important in today's law. It's true that there are people who think this is better, because it's not allowed for people to come quickly, as is normal and in the vast majority of cases, claiming their missing animal. But it is true that there may be many circumstances that prevent him. That's why we think that declaring an abandoned animal at three days shouldn't be found in the law, and expanding it, in the animals identified, at ten days, and in the unidentified animals, where it's much harder to find their owner or wife, to extend it to twenty days. Now I'm going to talk about amendments that are advances on the current bill, not the ones before, which were directly backwards with respect to the previous law. We reject the exclusion of the application of the law to animals in the family of the equidae; they are domestic animals and in Galicia, besides with great importance, and we think they have to be collected in this regulation. We also reject, of course, the exclusion from the application of the law to animals employed in any Taurine show, including closures. Planting this in Galicia seems to have no meaning anymore, when there is at all no tradition on this subject. We advocate in many articles for the greatest involvement, recognition and support of non-profit associations that have as object the defense and protection of animals. We urge that they be declared of public utility and stakeholders in all proceedings of this law. We reject, without exclusion, the use of animals in trade fairs and other similar attractions, and not, as the law states, that this may be authorized by the competent local authority. We have added a ban on keeping animals tied or chained indefinitely or permanently limiting the movement necessary for them within their ethical characteristics. We call for the differentiation of definitions between "euthanasia" and "sacrifice" of animals, which has nothing to do with them. The latter, the "sacrifice", will be prohibited in any circumstance, except in very serious emergencies of public health, and not all the other possibilities that the law marks, which leaves complete arbitrariness to the entities that may have competence in these matters. To improve the conditions laid down in the law for zoo nuclei, to extend the deadline for an animal — I commented — with identification is not considered abandoned until 10 days, and to 20 when it is not identified. To extend the powers of temporary foster homes of abandoned animals, allowing them to have more than five animals, after communication to the competent council, only for the purpose that undesirable situations cannot occur, but not for control or to prevent this activity. Promote the creation of controlled feline colonies in all municipalities. We also propose the identification of feline, ferrets and other domestic animals, and not just of canned animals, since the extravagant and abandonment of animals is a reality in other species, which would facilitate their recovery and punishment in case of abandonment. We also propose the prohibition of collars of punishment, pinchos, drowning, electric discharges and lemonella. We think it's not the way to educate or socialize animals. And so up to 65 amendments, which we hope to be able to defend widely in the debates of the committee. And finally, we make an additional provision of absolutely essential importance, so that the ends of the law can be developed: their budget allocation, of which nothing is spoken in the law. We believe that there should be an economic memory that valued all the obligations and provisions that the law made, especially to the municipalities. Because if this is not done and the entire budgetary burden of these measures is left on the municipalities, in most cases the material impossibility of complying with the requirements of the law would be given. Without budget that worth all the actions to be developed, the law will be wet paper and a corner to the sun, and that is absolutely unacceptable. I'm just going to set an example that I know very well, which is the theme of the feline colonies in the city of Coruña. There are registered seventy feline colonies with between five and ten cats that live in freedom; that's about five cats. Capture, identify and sterilize these cats can cost more than one hundred and fifty thousand euros, without considering the cost of sorting, maintenance and care, which would greatly increase the cost. Maybe some council can assume it, keeping it from other games, considering already the budgetary problems they have with the Montor Law. But most of Galician municipalities would be absolutely impossible. That's why the Galician Union has to respond to this, make an economic memory and keep in mind that in the budgets of 2018 this law has to have an important welcome in these budgets. And finally, in the line that the best laws are those that educate and change improper social habits and habits for the times we live in, we propose that information and education programs - even in the field of regulated education - be developed, budgetedly, be provided to make Galicia a country that is also fair to non-human animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u89	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u90	Good morning, gentlemen. A greeting to the people of the protectors we've been working with these months and to those we've had quite a few meetings. I also greet those representatives of the entities we've been talking to and they can't be here today. And a greeting, ultimately, to all those people who were concerned about bringing their contributions to this text. "It is a great advance in many respects," said the Galician Council of Veterinary Colleges. "The state's most advanced law," says Pacma. "He celebrates the progress that has been made," says Libera. And more comedicated but speaks of "a step forward", the Members of En Marea. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the whole reflects perfection, — better said — reflect what remains of the Socialist Party in Galicia, which by the wise decision of the Greeks has not even led the opposition in this House. A game... "Hey! don't ask silence when you're here if you're not willing to do it afterwards, right?" [[Applause]] The only thing I could match today with the Socialist Party's spokesman is that we're in a whole amendment debate. [[Murmurs.]] We have all the parliamentary work ahead: to form the presentation, study and debate the amendments, and I suppose we will talk a lot in the coming weeks. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the letter of presentation by the Socialist Party: an amendment to the whole, which only seeks to break up with dialogue with the majority group. Let us wait, Your Honor, to see if you can achieve even half the support of your own group for this amendment. An intervention, Your Honor, arrogant and even offensive. But who do you think has a goal with this amendment?, to the People's Party, to the Nationalist Block and to En Marea, who have not registered amendments to the whole?, to whom do you think you have set a goal? Your Honor, all those people who are concerned about the welfare of animals. [[Applause]] You, Your Honor, add to cheap populism. You look like one... or you're an advantaged student of Mrs Cancela. What should be more powerful? Well, there goes Mrs Vilan and amends the whole thing. What a compliment you are! What to be populist? You're the first of the class! Why does your group lose some more reason with this? What's the matter? You have your little undercover, Your Honor. With false arguments lacking rigor and coherence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, that before you get into the whole amendment — which is what touches us today — make a few brief reflections. So weak is the justification that you make of your amendment that today in the debate of the amendment to the whole seems to you, who knows that you made a mistake, instead of defending your amendment, has been justifying and drawing out themes that have nothing to do with the law, such as the presentation day of the amendment. Besides, you know you're wrong. You are an experienced Member, and you know that the amendments of all have their reason for three reasons: in your opportunity, in your principles and in the spirit of the bill. And that's why, since these aspects are not amendable, partly proposes the return of the text. But you didn't talk about it, you didn't talk about the opportunity, you didn't talk about the principles of the law and you didn't talk about the spirit of the project itself. Also, as you said, I could propose a full text alternative to the project. He had plenty of time to prepare it, but he didn't, he couldn't introduce an alternative text. Why work, Your Honor, why? You make a rather arrogant statement given the position of your group in this House. Allow me, Your Honor, to tell you that I trust more of the Greeks and the Greeks we've been talking to than you have. Let me give the other House groups more credibility than theirs. And let me tell you that the concern of this group and of all the collectives and associations we've been with is more sincere than yours. It's true that this last one is personal valuations, it's true, it's personal valuations! But since you are discussing this amendment to this type of valuation, let me also make these personal assessments. You accuse us of lack of dialogue. Mrs. Vilan, you've been in the past legislation, you've been a member of this House in the past legislation. Only two legislative proposals submitted by the Government have obtained the favourable vote of the opposition groups, only two! In the rest of the proposals submitted by the Executive, the response of the opposition was almost always the same: amendment to the whole and vote against. Does this mean there was no desire for dialogue in the previous legislation? On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary; it was a legislation where there were laws passed unanimously. Which one? The proposals by you, the proposals by the opposition groups, and in which the majority group has been able to approach positions. Six laws passed by proposal from opposition groups that our group supported against two; six against two, gentlemen. [[Applause]] There was dialogue, lordship, dialogue prior to the drafting of the text, dialogue during the hearing process, dialogue with the proceedings of public exhibition and dialogue with associations, with groups, with professional schools and with protectors. See if there was a dialogue that we were also gathered together with the comrades of Podemos, Your Honor; even with them we were gathered together. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But let's go, ladies and gentlemen, to justice... it's very disturbing that you're headed and doing gestures and laughing while a member is elected by the citizens by speaking and defending the position of our group, and above all it's annoying when we — very much more committed than you — always have a reproach on the members of your group. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So, if you're asking us for a little respect, you also have respect for the rest. Let's go, ladies and gentlemen, to the justification that you have registered for your amendment and see if you meet the criteria of opportunity, if you meet the criteria of principles or the spirit of law. You are criticising — but to criticize — up to the title of the project. The text draws up a new definition of "company animal" — first point in Article 4 — which includes not only domestic animals but also animals from zoos' zoos' collections and zoo reserves and wild animals kept in captivity. Therefore, your assertion is incorrect and the scope of the bill is greater than that of the current Act 1/1993. But this definition is not a whim of the Galician People's Party, this definition is used to maintain coherence with other norms; some of the higher rank, such as Law 8/2003, of 24 April, of animal health, or of other current autonomous norms. In relation, ladies and gentlemen, with the composition of the Advisory Committee on Animal Protection, which does not make explicit reference to the fact that the balanced presence of men and women is mandatory, Article 31.3 of the project points out that the composition of the said Committee will be determined on a regular basis, if only the collectives and the administrations are set up and represented in it. But let's say, even if it wasn't necessary, since the composition will depend on the regulation, our group introduces in the text the explicit mention of "balanced presence of men and women," and we did it through partial amendments, gentlemen. You also justify your amendment to the whole because it is not mandatory to identify all domestic animals, whether they are of company or not; besides that you change your terms again and forget that domestic animals are already collected within the group of pets. But, look, regardless of the semantic debate, with regard to the identification of all domestic animals, the group of pet animals collects infinity of species, in many of which individual identification is impossible given its size, given its characteristics or even its behaviour. We're referring to wild animals, small animals and fish. The bill establishes the mandatory identification of dogs, with the aim of concentrating identification efforts and thus able to eradicate their abandonment, without prejudice that we can then advance in the identification of other species. With regard to the exclusions of this law. The 1993 Act on the Protection of Domestic and Wild Animals, which was adopted in its Article 1, was to exclude those animals which are subject to specific regulation, such as the one created for the use of their productions and the wild. Therefore, this project follows the same line as the 1993 law since the premise that the specimens belonging to the species of equidae, to the species of production or experimental animals must be regulated by their specific regulations, when they escape from the same definition of pets as the object of this law. And you justify a whole amendment for this, but in turn you present a partial amendment that literally says, "This law will not apply to animals that are subject to a specific regulation." With which you are saying the same thing as the preliminary draft, and there is absolutely no change in the scope of the 1993 law. With regard to another of the advances that incorporates the law, the prohibition on the use of wild animals in circuses, you also consider that this justifies the return of the text because it does not envisage the creation of an evaluation observatory on the conditions under which non-forests live. Put on a balance, Mrs Vilán, the prohibition on wild animal use and the non-creation of an observatory, and tell us really if you think this justifies a whole amendment, which means returning this text to the Government. But I want to remind you, Your Honor — I would like to remind you that sometimes the memory is red — that just a year ago we discussed an initiative of yours by literally "prohibiting circuses with animals belonging to the wild fauna." Your Honor, that's the inconsistencies of your amendment, that's the justification you have for presenting a whole amendment; if you're amending yourself. In relation to the aspect of the draft law concerning the creation of protective associations as public utility entities, this was in response to the desire to place protective entities, which would, on the other hand, benefit from tax reliefs and advantages that such a condition provides. However, and as a result of dialogue and communication with animal protection groups and entities, we are aware of the concern of many persons and entities involved in animal protection for being able to achieve that condition, so my group has tabled an amendment to the above paragraph to maintain the same requirements as they now have. Our group dialogues and their group calls for the text to be returned; think of whether the justification of theirs is well-founded to proceed in that way. You say that the law does not expressly recognize for associations the character of stakeholders in proceedings instituted by administrative infringements. You just don't have to recognize him. And as you are a lawyer, I suppose you will know Law 39/2015, of the common administrative procedure of public administrations, which clearly says that — whether or not to put this law — these societies will have a character of interest, and that is what you already know. And if you justify that to present an amendment to the whole, well, we see also the depth of your arguments. It confuses also premeditated prohibitions with infringements. The same way it confuses authorization communications as well. Perhaps the justification of the amendment was somewhat empty and it was necessary to fill it, and when that is the criterion, there is no confusion whatsoever. But it is sad on the part of a person who is indeed aware of the administrative procedure. He says there is no reference in the text to campaign development along with protective entities and associations. This is completely false. The project draws different references to collaboration between protective entities and the Administration: Article 30.2 on agreements with protective entities, and in the same way and in the same way in Title VI there is a specific title for this, which has its articulation on disclosure, education and training, establishing clear commitments to implement awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns of society. But you must be that you haven't read the law, and then you think making things up can also justify your amendment. An important bet is made to prioritize and enhance the adoption of abandoned animals by establishing a specific regulation for the collection, adoption and reception of such animals, which only responds to the welfare and protection of adopted animals. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that the deadlines set for the collection of an animal abandoned by its owner in a collection centre also meet an animal protection criterion, bearing in mind that the animals actually abandoned may be adopted within a shorter period, thus reducing the time limits for the animal to remain in the collection centre without being able to become part of responsible, concerned and committed families with animal welfare. And for those properly identified animals, as this document establishes, a period of three working days is set; three working days since the official notification of this animal's presence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u92	...in the pick-up center, that is, since you are aware of the owner of the location of that center so you can go pick it up. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have started the parliamentary procedure — to finish. We're going to talk, we're going to keep talking, we're going to study absolutely all the amendments that your groups have tabled. We know from the PSdEG that you will not dialogue and we know that you will do what this group does, the majority group, you will vote against this law, and you will vote against it not for principles, you will vote against it for pure electoral tactics. Ladies and gentlemen of the Block, gentlemen of the Tide, you think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u94	...that this text is a good starting point, improved, and that's why they present in coherence the partial amendments, we offer them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u95	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u96	...to work for Parliament to approve the best possible law, and we would like to achieve its support. It wasn't the usual thing in the past legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u97	Thank you, Mr. Trenor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u98	...but since this is the first law, in addition to budgeting, to see if we are able to put the welfare of animals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u99	Your time is up, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u100	...the fight against abandonment and abuse over party interests. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica from the amending group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u101	Good day again. I, if the president allows me, have to say that it's very nice to come here to make a law to protect and take care of the welfare of animals, but what you can't come here is to do a show to say [...] [[Applause]] I like teaching, but not so much as to have to explain today what an amendment to the whole of it is, because the debate is on the whole debate. That is to say, today we have been talking here about the amendment to the whole amendment which the Socialist Parliamentary Group tabled exclusively; we have not been talking about partial amendments, nor about amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, nor about amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, nor those of the BNG of a partial nature. We have come to talk exclusively about the debate by amendment to the whole. And we opened — I repeat — this debate thanks to the fact that there was an amendment to the whole, because if not even you, Mr Trenor, could go up where you went to speak and say the things you said. [[Applause]] And if we have to give a political battle, because this is the Galician Parliament, this is not a café or a hotel where to make a talk inviting the collectives and political parties you mentioned. He didn't quote any of us here, he quoted two people who are going to give a presentation in that talk that you're going to organize next week. Because as you are because of dialogue and democracy and the separation of powers, instead of debating here we debate in a coffee talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is a parliamentary group that supports the Government and there are parliamentary groups that we are in opposition. And I'm going to have to make a scheme and hang it here like in the colle, because I don't have a slate. And those of the opposition make opposition, we can't praise the Government, because for that you are already, which is what they do continuously in every debate we have. Please! [[Applause]] It is a text that has received around one hundred and seventy amendments tabled by all parliamentary groups; it has barely forty articles, with some additional provision, some transitional and some derogation and final. We believe that a text that receives a hundred and seventy amendments after almost two and a half years, put in a box of the Environmental Council since you are a counselor, you deserve a whole amendment clearly on the whole of the House, not only on that side, but also on the side that is supporting them. By the way, that amendment that you are talking about, Mr Trenor, of the Advisory Committee on Animal Protection is a partial amendment, which you will be able to discuss on the day of partial amendments; but not today, today it is up to speak of the amendment to the whole of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The sentences made are very well, reading international texts too, but the important thing is to make politics, which is what we came here, and to dialogue and listen to the people who will be out tomorrow in a concentration against this bill. And that is precisely what we have collected, and that is why we tabled the amendment to the whole, and we also tabled partial amendments to this text. We haven't come here to try to convince anyone, but these associations, these abandoned animal collection protectors are privately owned by nine-year-olds in Galicia and publicly owned by eight. And you didn't talk to them, because if you talked to them tomorrow they wouldn't concentrate outside of this Parliament and they wouldn't have made so many amendments. [[Applause]] By collecting what you said to me that it was obviously electoral tactics, because, perhaps not the amendment to the whole of it is electoral tactics, because we have no elections in sight, at least of which we have news — you have privileged information on it — but it may be that as there will be municipal elections and as the Environmental Counsellor is the candidate for visa to the mayor of the town of Coruña, perhaps this bill is an electoral tacticism by the councillor and you, who perhaps also want to go to that list to the Town Council as a concelerator. Of course, with this intervention you did today, I think you just lost points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Mrs. Vilán, could we remove the expression [...]? Because I don't think he's a... No, no, I'm sorry, I'm asking if we can take her out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know we're talking about the animal protection law and the word can be put in that context as a metaphor. But I don't think... I'm sorry, I don't think it's an expression that should be used. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I believe that no Member shall say [...] in the sense that it may perhaps be interpreted. It's a play of words and then we understand that it has a lot of kindness and that we can pull it out, is there any problem? [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo: President, it's a pun.]] Well, thank you very much. If you're talking if you understand people. I think this is correct what we just did. Nothing else. Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Debate taken into consideration the Proposal for a Law, the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u103	We are now debating the bill put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor for the presentation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has already made a statement both in the budgetary debate and in a question addressed by our spokesperson to the President of the Council of Galicia at the plenary session on 5 April, which our Community was refusing to exhaust the deficit limit which was allocated to each of the autonomous communities. For Galicia the difference between the approved budget and the authorised one is one tenth, that is, 60 million euros in revenue for the Autonomous Community and therefore 60 million euros in expenditure capacity. Galicia was one of the few autonomous communities that did not go to the Financial Liquidity Fund launched by the Central Government in 2012; a fund that was enabled for communities to secure their funding and provide their public services. Galicia resisted because joining involved a reputational cost, understanding it as a ransom. But the reality is that for these communities another line of credit was offered called "Finance Facility Fund", which did not have the FLA's bad reputation, and the State until September last year injected into the Autonomous Community the amount of 2,164 million euros, although in reality the conditions for the FLA and the Financial Facility Fund today are practically the same. The president of the Galician Board told us in a plenary of April that Galicia was resolutely using the Financial Facility Fund, because he had a kind of null interest and therefore additional debt using this fund would not mean any cost to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And he also told us that we were in a financial situation, in comparative terms, extremely favourable. So it seems that we have legal capacity to be indebted, that it will cost us nothing and we have no commitment to financial stability either in the medium or in the long term. Still, we're about to finish the first semester of this year and we see no answer. There was no proposal to amend the Budget Act to exhaust the capacity and use these 60 million euros, despite the fact that the President of the Board committed himself in the middle of April to bringing here the bill to raise the ceiling. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we socialists bring here this bill to raise this expenditure ceiling, to increase the capacity of the Galician Union by 60 million euros. We are therefore debating our bill and will be able to respond as soon as possible to the needs that exist today and now in our country. To govern means to make decisions, but for some, like you, to govern is to match accounts and for socialists to govern is, first, to think about people and to meet their needs. We have already said in the budgetary debate that budgets should be directed to the population of the territory where the community has competence, not in contrast to how you do it: to meet population needs according to how you measure accounts. You do an economic policy, you value each of the services and you value them for their economic profitability. Their neoliberal policies have left in the cuneiform a very important percentage, too important of our population, when people most needed it, when they needed a strong administration, in times of a crisis, of the worst crisis we have experienced, a crisis that lasts ten years, with financial markets that shut their doors, and the administrations of the state and the Autonomous Community of Greece concerned only because of their accounts. I'm going to do an X-ray of the country that we have today: Galicia has a population of 2,707,000 inhabitants, with a loss from 2009 to 2017, that is, in eight years, of more than 88,000 inhabitants, with an increase of people over 65 years old in more than 54,000 inhabitants, and we've lost people under 20 in more than 13,000 inhabitants, and the most shocking: of people between 25 and 34 years old, for these eight years, we've lost nearly 176,000 inhabitants. A unemployment figure registered from May 2016 to 2017 which in Galicia decreases by 9.45 %, while in Spain it decreases by 11.06 %. A number of homes in Galicia today — EPA in the first quarter of 2017 — with all its members in unemployment of 73,900 homes. And the number of homes in Galicia in the first quarter of 2017, which have absolutely no income, is 36.800 homes. Four out of ten people live in homes without the ability to face unforeseen expenses. The average amount of pensions in Greece is EUR 776, while for Spain it is EUR 919. And a 16.95 percent poverty risk rate. However, with all this data, the Galician Union in the 2016 financial year leaves 100 million euros unimplemented for the promotion of employment, reaching only 60% of its initial commitments. This is the X-ray of our country. This is the IGE data and it's your data. His balance sheet, the ruling balance of the People's Party at the Galician Summit. [[Applause]] An older country, a more impoverished country, a youth without opportunities to emigrate, but still, they match accounts before caring for people. That's why we socialists today bring this bill so that the needs of those most vulnerable, the most disadvantaged, the worst that's going through, so that they can redirect their lives and regain their dignity. The amendment we present is a single article, where in point 7 we detail what are the games we propose to increase with these 60 million euros. On the one hand, it increases Galician social inclusion income. In the budgets there were 57 million, we proposed an increase of 29 and would be left with a total of 86,506,340 euros. An increase also in the help service in the dependency home. An initial loan, which is recorded in the budgets, of 59 million million. We proposed an increase of 14 million and, therefore, we would make a total of 73,396,118 euros. An increase also in the bookstore linked to social services and care around it, with an initial credit of 60 million. We proposed an increase of 14 million, and there would be a total match of 74,848,419 euros. A family support programme, supplementary assistance to tax deduction for children under 6 years of age. With an initial amount of 3 million, we proposed an increase of €2,888,000, which would give a total of €5,888,307. We also propose, in point 8 of this chapter, the creation of a new budget share of expenditure, which would be families and non-profit institutions, freedom for the independent life of disabled people, endowed with EUR 1,056,450. And at point 9 we propose the amendment of the additional sixth provision, which regulates the provision of childcare to families. It would be for those persons who, on January 1, 2017, are in charge of children under the age of 6, and are entitled to receive a 360 euros allowance for the first son or daughter, 1,200 for the second son or daughter and 2,400 for the third daughter or child, and so on, under the conditions that the Social Policy Council itself can establish. They do it, they show that they have sensitivity, they show that they care about our society, they worry about the data that I just reflected and they're concerned about people. Have they had the opportunity to read the report on the state of society of the nation 2017, prepared by the State Association of directors and managers of social services? It's shocking data, demolitioners. They're not the only ones, there's a lot of solvent studies that corroborate this data, and they point to such important issues as poverty in Spain has become a structural problem. We have already surpassed the social emergency to settle in precariousness and lack of opportunity. The lack of social mobility is conducive to the transmission of poverty, poverty that is inherited; a new feudalism. Some 6.4% of the Spanish population is officially poor; that is, 4 out of every 10 people suffer in one way or another poverty. Social exclusion comes from the difficulties that people have to overcome situations that are the result of a process that substantially and negatively alters that person's relationship with society. A large part of Spanish society lives in a precarious situation, largely because of job insecurity, and the Galician Union does not use the resources available to increase employability. Inequalities have increased in Spain in the years of crisis, due to an unfair political, economic and social model. And in 2015 1% of the population concentrates as much wealth as 80% poorer. [[Applause]] I mean, People's Party gentlemen, there are 2.3 million people in our country who own a heritage greater than 42 million people. In the same report, in the DEC index, we are told that the development of social services in Spain is at 4,5 %, while in Galicia it is at 2,6 %; in the fourth position by the queue of autonomous communities and below the average of the three indices. Since public policies the right answers are not being given. Look, Risga, the income of social inclusion, is a public benefit designed to guarantee economic resources of subsistence to those who lack them, as well as to progressively achieve their autonomy and social and labour integration. And I'm stressing "subsistence." The 2017 budget increased the counties to meet the Risk by 5 million, and the budgets were approved — I want to remind you — in February this year. And it has already been necessary to inject, on the one hand, 600,000 euros first, from a game to deal with drugs from people without resources, and another 900,000 euros this May, reaching the historical barrier of the 60 million. Social policy seeks, for the second time in two months, funds for 129 new aids. A demand for public lifeguards to avoid poverty despite the fact that we are talking about a context of economic growth and job creation. Increasing Countia for Risk is necessary because there are many needs, but it also corroborates the situation in which we find ourselves. It's the most demolitional data that corroborates the failure of their public policies. It confirms that for you accounts are before people. And it corroborates the very poor social policies of the Galician Union. That is why we ask them again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Members and Ladies and gentlemen, are they using all the resources that the Galician Union has in order to strengthen social policies and that people in this situation can get out of them? I hope that your answer will be affirmative and that they will vote in favour — as Mr Trenor said before — of this initiative, which is absolutely necessary for social welfare. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u106	Good morning to all and to all. The nationalist group is in favour of taking into account this change of law proposed by the Socialist Party. It could not be otherwise, because as we denounced at the moment in the debate of that law, and in view of the results, it is clear that we were right when we said it was a law anchored in continuity, conformityism and absolute submission to the central government. The deficit margin, which we're talking about today, is a good example too. It is also an example of an economic and social policy which does not want to place social justice precisely as one of its priorities, and which is absolutely insufficient to reactivate the economy, the strategic sectors, absolutely contrary to guaranteeing the equality of the Greeks and the Greeks and contrary to what is needed to help them get out of the way to all those people who are suffering from it. Because look, from BNG we repeat that budgets are the most powerful tool you as a group of governments have to change the material living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks. And you don't have that as a goal anymore, but you don't even -- within the limited framework that you adopt in social policies -- I'm able to make good budget planning. You sell yourself as good managers, but just as that alleged expansion of budgets didn't even expand to the maximum margin of deficit, simply consolidation of recovery is a falsehood, it's absolutely cosmetic, like, if not, can you explain that they have already, as the socialist spokesman has already collected, to make two credit changes to cover the Risk, and the first one of them not a month after the budget has been approved? From BNG we understand that this reflects three things. First, an absolute lack of forecast. That self-label of good managers was quite big. It's just that, hey! it's already more than a million and a half of the gap between forecast and the need for spending just this month we're in, which hasn't even passed the 2017 equator yet. And secondly, an absolute lack of realism. Look, when we criticize your model of social de-protection — because you can't call it social de-protection — you deny the greatest and always win a theoretical recovery; but that you have to resort to making these budgetary changes reveals precisely that when you have to do so with help with so many limitations of focus such as Risk, deeper and more worrying issues. For example, it shows that, in the same way that this figure is consolidated that we denounce the consolidation of the poor worker and the poor worker, it also consolidates a change in the profile of the Risga applicants. Many people in our country who had a job, who had a certain stability and economic independence and who, as a result of policies such as plural labour reforms — including those of the proposed group — saw their living conditions gradually getting worse and now living in a situation of absolute need. It also shows that, as much as this macroeconomic framework improves, there is a huge difference between macro data, between GDP data and absolute unemployment data; there is another underlying reality. We can take the latest unemployment data in hand and you'll be glad that there's almost 5,000 fewer people on the unemployment lists, and that's right. But if we scratch a little bit, what happens? If we scratch a little, we see how with less than 5,000 jobs more we have more than 87,000 contracts signed in our country. This reflects the consolidation of precariousness, the consolidation of temporality and the consolidation of poor worker and worker in the interests of partiality. This shows that there is no capacity by popular classes to stabilize their economic situation and that poverty is beginning to be something already structural. So it's logical that so many people's disappearance, that they now have to stick to these new Risga applicants. Finally, this situation is a further test of that model than since BNG we have described as a strategy of social deprotection. They don't fool us, they extend the Risk because there's nothing else left, because it's a regulated, stipulated and legally expandable help. But if we look at, for example, the 2016 credit changes, we see exactly how several programs that reverse that social aid tissue are the ones that see their budget down to more than 2.5 million. For example, to name one, social services of care to dependent people or social services of care to older and disabled people. This is your deprotection system, so from BNG we understand that there is a change of direction. But I'm talking about change of direction consciously, because it's not just about correcting wrong decisions like not to cover that allowed deficit, so we're going to vote favourably for the Socialist Party's proposal, but we also have to aspire to go further. The fact that the Central Government was not constituted last year showed the role of guardianship that this Government plays over the Greek Government, while it was absolutely absent and without the capacity of ambition. That our Fairy depends on the approval of precisely the limits of deficit and debt approved by the State, unilaterally and homogenously, reveals Galicia's subordinate role. We are denied political and financial autonomy and refused to be a real administration. It treats us as more decentralization, and the nationalists of this country are not worth this model. This model doesn't apply to us because it prevents us from developing our abilities and because it prevents us from protecting our society. They are the consequences of an autonomous corset diametrically opposed to social justice and which unfortunately only the nationalists of this country question. This lack of autonomy not only in order to limit the margins of deficit or indebtedness, but also the derivatives of a structurally inadequate financing system to meet our needs arising from a complicated economic situation, prevents us from covering the basic pillars of our society: education, health and also the social protection system that our country would need. That is why we understand from the BNG — and tomorrow you will have an opportunity, in the request presented by this parliamentary group to the Government on the financing model, to correct some of its strategies — that, as long as we do not question that framework, we will continue without have real capacity to change the material living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks. No question about it, we're just putting on caps. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we are in favour of exhausting that deficit margin, using those 58 million more for social policies and changing the policies of the People's Party. That's a necessity, but there's another fundamental need, which is to question that political framework that prevents us from developing our abilities. Because look, social debate is a very political debate and you can't limit that deficit margin, you have to go further. Two days ago the anniversary of the birth of a referential person was celebrated for the economic theorization of Greek nationalism, Alexandre Boveda, who in 1934 had written for sure on Our Earth, speaking about the needs of young people in Greece to have a future in this country, the following: "If it sinks a little bit into the great political struggle that is venturing in the world, it is not difficult to see that their roots are mainly of economic order and that their possible solution revolves around these two ideas: historical states and social justice." Well, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we will keep insisting and putting a very clear question on the table: there will be no social justice in this country unless we change the economic and social policies of the People's Party. But look! we won't get social justice in this country, nor will we get a decent exit for all the Greeks and Greeks on this land if we don't change the economic relationship we have with the Spanish State, if we don't change that financing model. We therefore invite all the state forces present here to dare to give this debate honestly and to the change we have allowed in this House not only to exhaust that margin of deficit. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u108	Good morning. My group disagrees with the budgets of the Union for 2017 because we consider them antisocial, unfair, restrictive, inefficient, poorly formulated, even erroneous, because they are built by inconsistent hypotheses. We said that a few months ago, in the budgetary debate, and that is why we voted against the budgets. And we keep saying that now, with more reason, so it's been this long. We don't agree with the spending ceiling that has been fixed or the breakdown of the deficit between the different levels of government. We reject the hypotheses about which it was built and we continue to say that the estimates of the macroeconomic framework that are at the base of the budget are wrong. In Marea he reported that there were budgets that continued on the path of adjustment, of cuts, of austerity, and time gave us reason. Even more, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, these budgets are surpassed by reality, and we dare say that sooner and later it will be the Council of Galicia, it will be the People's Parliamentary Group, which brings here a proposal to modify the budgets. And it has to be that way because the evolution of fundamental variables, both in income and expenditure, force the budget to change. By the way, they are not changes derived from any exceptional circumstances, but they were evident already when the Board brought the budget here to the House and the People's Group approved it alone. Let me quote the three most relevant questions that were raised by my group at the time of the debate: First. The budgets of the Board have frozen the salaries of employees and public employees who now, as soon as the general state budgets are approved, are obliged to amend chapter I of the 2017 board budgets to transfer a 1 % salary increase. By the way, an increase far below the IPC, so people working for the public sector in Galicia are going to suffer the greatest loss of purchasing power since 2010. How hard it is to convince a person to lower his salary that we're out of the crisis! Secondly, the general budget of the State — and this is my favorite theme — includes a quantification on the so-called deliveries to the account of the system of self-financing which makes it ridiculous to the Galician Union, as you warned in the budget debate in Marea. Together, she drew up her budget based on a forecast of the revenue that would be received from the autonomic financing model. She put the figure of 79 million euros that we were going to receive more in 2017 than in 2016. We already said, it was incongruent to estimate an increase of 1% of the revenue when the Central Government forecast was that nominal GDP had increased by 4%, and above all that fiscal collection would grow by 7%. And now it's written, the general government budgets come to confirm what we said. Advances to the account that the autonomous communities of the common system will receive in 2017 will increase by 6,5% compared to 2016. That is, six times more than the Business Council has introduced into its budget. Expressed in absolute figures, where the Board said EUR 79 million, the state budget speaks of around EUR 350 million. I want to be fair. Even though you're not Mr. Fanda's advisor, you're not mistaken, you've done so on purpose. It's not that In Marea you knew more than the Council, it's that this formula of estimating income below is a bastard tool to impose cuts. Once income is defined and once there is the deficit limit, the expenditure ceiling derived from that sum acts as an iron law on public spending, both in services and in services. Thirdly, one of the basic hypotheses on the basis of the economic framework evolves radically different from the expected: the forecast of inflation. The Government has built, together, a macroeconomic framework with an IPC estimate of 1.2 % for 2017. In the first five months of 2017, the average IPC is 2.9 %, i.e. almost three times more. And this has very significant consequences on both income and expenditure. We spend on it because at this price level the budget decreases in real terms. A fall in real terms that affects the vast majority of the functions in which the budget is distributed. For example, health and education, which grew by 2,8 % nominally in real terms, are frozen or falling, and the same is true of investment in infrastructure, the dynamisation of the rural environment, environmental performances or R & D+i. The 2017 budget could no longer qualify as an expansion because it grew below nominal GDP, but now, with inflation that increases by 2.5 to forecast, it becomes a clearly contractual budget. A simple sample data. Nominal GDP, which is the sum of real GDP plus price change, is growing right now around 6 %, and yet non-financial expenditure increases by 2.7 %. If one compares both variables, increasing 2.7 against a nominal GDP change of 6 %, that contractual character is evident. In the case of income, the situation is the reverse, because a nominal increase higher than the estimated is translated into the improvement of the taxable base of the different tax figures, therefore the collection will be greater than the forecast. This is a shadow tax that particularly impresses wage earners and pensioners. I was reminding myself as I was preparing this intervention when -- I don't know if everyone knows this concept -- I was talking about "defacting" IRPF's rates; those times when inflation was considered to be a shadow tax and that if IRPF's rates and price changes were not updated, there was an increase in the shadow, hidden, taxation, which pays above all those who pay taxes in this country, that we are employees and pensioners. So if there is no correction in expenditure, the result will be profound in cutting policies, devoting the highest nominal income to reducing the deficit, while reducing the allocation of resources that finance public services. In short, what we've been doing since 2017 confirms what we said when the People's Group singled out the budget. It's a restrictive budget because it grows far below nominal GDP. It is technically ill-founded because the hypotheses about which it was built, inflation or advance to account were deeply wrong. It's unfair because it leaves the tax burden on employees and pensioners. It is austere because it continues the path of cuts, as spending increases below inflation in health care, education, wages of employees and public employees. I'm done. It is a reality-surpassed budget that would need a whole amendment to the Socialist Party, because it is difficult to partially amend this budget. In that sense, the amendment seems partial to us, but we're going to support it, because "no" we leave it to the party of the non. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u109	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, what the Socialist Party brings to us today is a proposal for reform of the Budgets Act which consists of increasing the indebtedness limit from 0.5 of GDP to 0.6 of GDP, to allocate the countia, which is estimated at EUR 60.9 million, to various current spending shares in the Social Policy Council. And I emphasize this, that we are talking about debt for current expenditure; social, but current expenditure. There's a first question to clarify. Some economicism is always convenient when it comes to numbers, but it calculates an increase in income by absorption from that margin of 0.1% of GDP by 60.9 million euros, when actually the calculation should be made on the budget itself, that is, over 59 million, with which 1.3 million euros are out of excess and we have already begun to decimate the figures. Even figures that in your proposal, in the legal text, do not match the revenue you expect from spending. The expected revenue is EUR 60.9 million and expenditure 61.01. So some bills are good and some economics are good. In order to increase the indebtedness limit from 0.5 to 0.6, Mrs Rodríguez, it is not necessary to amend the Budgets Act, because the Budgets Act itself, in its Article 35.2, provides for the automatic review of the net debt position, among other things, of the additional amounts covered by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council agreements. Interestingly, in your drafting of article 35, in the bill we are discussing today, this automatic review capacity is eliminated. Therefore, there is no need to reform the law, in addition, by deleting the article that allows it to be unnecessary to incorporate new indebtedness to the Budget Law. In addition, and with regard to content, you create increases or appropriations which the current law itself foresees are already considered to be expandable: this is the case with Risk and is the case with family benefits for children under three years of age, which are clearly expandable; therefore, as has just been said, they have already been extended and do not need to reform the Budget Law. The other two parties that want to increase are not expandable, but, as you know perfectly well, with the creek modification mechanisms it would not at all be necessary to reform the Budget Act to increase — if necessary — expenditure, which currently does not seem to be, according to the execution of the budget. Finally, they introduce something that is deeply incoherent, which is to increase the provision of children from 0 to 3 years to 3 to 6 years. It is not noticed that this goes in parallel with the exemption provided for in the IRPF. The benefit is for those parents who cannot — because they cannot — make the statement of the IRPF. You extend the allowance only to those who do not make the income statement, and in your proposal leave out the parents of children from 3 to 6 years old who apply the same reduction, but instead of receiving a benefit, making the corresponding discount in the income statement. So it would generate injustice between parents of children aged 3 to 6 who make income statements and those who don't. The proof that it is expandable to the creeks is at its own risk. This neoliberal government has increased its share of the Risga, which when it ruled the left progressive was 22.8 million euros, to 57.5 million euros in recent budgets; and as it has already been said, this government is constantly expanding it according to demand. There were two enlargements. Mr.Antón Sánchez was not in the House when in the 2010 budget debate the great criticism made to the budgets was that the risk was not expandable — when it was — when it was. Now it's expandable. Of course, these changes assume the commitment that all people who meet the requirements, and who are in a delicate situation of subsistence, receive the Risk within the time set by law. That's the goal of the neoliberal People's Party. You say it is the failure of an economic policy, and for us it is clear evidence of the clear commitment of the People's Party to the people who need it most. [[Applause]] A commitment, by the way, that in relation to Risk also has to do with attention time. It went from 119 days in 2015 to 67 days in 2016. And it wouldn't be as many days if some council -- like Vigo's -- didn't apply the staff that Junta subsidized him to deal more quickly with the help of Rising to other issues. Well, as you know, the Vigo Town Hall -- the People's Valedor's Report said here -- is what takes time to deal with the risks. Finally, the People's Party's commitment to social spending is beyond doubt. I insist, we can compare the 126 million spent on dependency with the 336 going on in the 2017 budgets. The 65 million disabled in 2009, with the 95 going on the 2017 budget. The increase, since 2009, of 75% of children's school squares. 141 % increase in day-care centres; 22 % higher residence squares; 81 % in alzeimer centre squares; 16 % in disability centre squares, totaling an increase — in crisis and with less resources — of 50 % of the social care squares. This, Mrs. Rodríguez, can qualify him in many ways, even with denominations or political qualifications of compassionate conservatism, as you wish, but neoliberalism, neoliberalism, does not seem, I say it frankly. You delete, as I said, Article 35 of the law the above-mentioned ability to incorporate the fiscal and financial policy board agreements, but they also eliminate something else. For example, they delete that the due net position is calculated at the end of the budget exercise. It simply eliminates this, which means that one can understand that the limit cannot be exceeded during the budgetary year — i.e. day to day, week to week — with which one interprets that the possibility of doing bridge operations to reduce the cost of indebtedness cannot be done, which, in turn, is really contradictory. This is because you in your amendment remove the article that allows you to do this. How they delete that it's the advisor that can formalize obliging operations; we don't know who would formalize them. They either delete paragraph 4 of the same article by deleting the reference to the subrogation of the debt of SPI, when the company is liquidated, in the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. Finally, Mrs Rodríguez, social spending has grown with the PP markedly in relation to the Bipartite. It shows the social commitment of the People's Party every year; it remains a priority. The games that most affect those who need it most are reversible or can be increased by changing the crest, and demonstrate the need to modify this budget law. With all this I just said enough, but I'd like to make a last thought. As far as economic policy is concerned, now that you see who supports this law are the ones who are against the system as a whole and want to break the principles of spending ceilings, balance of accounts, etc., you see who supports it. At a time when the Socialist Party wants to be more powerful, but sometimes populism seems to breed easily. And besides, by the way, at the same time that Greece is committing the ultimate ransom and people are manifesting themselves in the streets because there is a left-wing government that cuts even more pensions. I want to talk a little bit about the public debt, because here the public debt of the opposition we hear from everything. That we owe ourselves very much, that we owe ourselves little. In the budget debate it was that the debt grew a lot; and now it is: you have to increase the debt a little more. Well, the truth is we have 6 points less deficit since 2010; it is 3,600 million euros less debt as a result of fulfilling the deficit. As a result, since 2010 Galicia has been the least affected by the rise in debt, 28.9 %, compared to an average of 45% autonomous communities. With which, what each Greek citizen owes, which is about EUR 4,000, is 50% less than the average of the citizens of the various autonomous communities to their government, which is around EUR 6,000. We have a percentage of GDP debt of around 19%, that is, 6 points less than the average of the autonomous communities, which is around 25%. What are the effects of your debt? Well, I brought you some of the reports you should know: that of the European Commission in relation to the situation of the Spanish economy. It says exactly: "The excess of public debt is a burden on the economy that makes Spain vulnerable to any change in economic and financial conditions, and it can also increase its costs," says the European Commission. What the Banco de España does not report last year, which has just become public, are headlines like this: "The high indebtedness of the Spanish economy is a vulnerability to any additional increases in interest rates". "The public debt ratio on GDP remains at very high levels." "The debt position of international investment remains an important element of vulnerability." "A possible scenario of interest rate increases would have a contractual impact on Spanish revenues." "The sensitivity of the financial burden of public administrations to interest rate movements has been raised as a result of the increase in public debt in recent years. In the context described, it is a priority to resume the process of fiscal consolidation." If they don't need official reports, I'll give you an appointment that I would also recommend you to read, which is: The new skin of capitalism, of professors Xosé Carlos Arias and Antón Costas. They literally say in chapter II, Recovery and escalating paths, in an epiphany called Debt Mountains, or the following: "It seems, therefore, that especially Europeans are trapped in a vicious circle of high debt that curbs growth, which in turn makes debt levels grow. The long-term survival of this out-of-scale debt situation has serious consequences for the economy. On the one hand, it maintains vulnerability to the risk of new financial crises. On the other hand, it is clear that the permanence of high debts is a reminder for the reconstruction of the foundations of economic growth." I suppose these two authors won't qualify for you as neoliberals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u112	I therefore conclude, Mr President, with a question. The Greek economy is growing -- the last data we know in conjunction -- from the Economic Forum -- to 3.6%; it's generating jobs -- of better or worse quality; you have to work in quality, but it's generating jobs -- at an annual rate of 10%, whether EPA data or INEM data. Is it reasonable, with all I just told you, to increase the debt? And increase the debt for current spending? I don't think so, because besides, as I've just shown you, social spending is already a priority of this Government. It is not necessary to reform the budget in order to increase social spending, nor, of course, to rely more on it than the economy needs to improve permanently, grow healthy and minimize the impact of crises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u113	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica. Author group of the bill, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Puy, since we are here recommending readings, I can also recommend that you read that "the Banco de España alerts that business benefits grow more than wages." And I can also recommend to you, from that book that you recommend to me, The New Law of capitalism, that you read the chapter devoted to inequality, and perhaps opinion is no longer the same. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Puy, you say there's a mistake in the counties. Well, we can assume that some mistake we can make. We're not perfect, we know. But in any case, those mistakes, if you agree and will support this bill, we're willing to rectify them and amend them, because sometimes we're also wrong. But look, you tell us it's not necessary to reform the law, but the president of the Galician Union himself in this plenary session, right here, said he was committed to bringing this reform of the law to achieve that spending ceiling. Therefore, the President must not have all the necessary and accurate information either. [[Applause]] On the other hand, you also tell me that you don't need to increase these games because they are open. But, look, we're starting the month of June, they've twice changed the counties for Risk. So we're afraid that, as the months go by, if the budget accounts end — because some guess they'll be exhausted, in some case they'll get 100 percent of the expense -- and therefore they won't have anywhere to get out of. And we want to make sure that these accounts meet the needs of our people, the people of Greece, because as much as you say -- and it's true -- that macroeconomic data says that we're growing and that there's also greater employment, you also point out that this job is still precarious, and the reality is that today there are 17,000 dependents on waiting list, given by the Government of Galician Unity. And the truth is, they've had to double enable Risga's increase because it's not enough to meet all the risk needs we have in this country. And I'll tell you more. The risk — which has been repeated — is a public benefit intended to guarantee economic resources of subsistence — I insist, of subsistence — to those who lack them, as well as to achieve progressive autonomy and social and labour integration. [[Applause]] So we have a very important group of people in our country who need those economic livelihoods, regardless of macroeconomic data. I was also commenting on the increments, and I was telling you that the increments and needs are greater, and that the increase in Risk that comes to corroborate -- I insist and repeat it again -- is the failure and the lack of social policies of the Galician Union. Because the rise in risk, even if necessary, points to a very, very worrying social and economic situation. All the data that are giving us all the social reports tells us that we have a population that we have to deal with. And you -- I urge you -- prefer to settle accounts and not attend to people. What we proposed to them, with this 30 million increase to Risk, would be to attend 5,000 more beneficiaries and increase by 15 percent their count. And I want to remind you that the risk is EUR 400 for Galicia, while in the Basque Country it is EUR 665. It's still insufficient for those who have nothing. But we ask that the attention be increased to the people on the waiting list and that their content be increased to meet with dignity the precarious situations that are taking place in our country. Also, on the subject of dependents, we have 17,000 people on the waiting list. And so we're asking for an increase of 30 million euros to meet all those dependents, all those dependents who are waiting for public help that is fundamental to developing their lives. Look, I'm going to tell them to rectify. Think once and for all of the people, think once and for all of the families. We have data from the first quarter of 2017 of EPA: 73,900 homes with all their members unemployed, 36,800 homes without any income. Budgets are the political document that uses every government, which is where the will and policies that are applied from the government are placed. I ask them to rectify, to attend to these people who are in extreme need. Regardless of whether macroeconomic data is improving, when they get better to reach these people it is perhaps too late. Therefore, please ask them to think more about the heart and sometimes less about reason and accounts. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u116	We shall vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on the amendment to the full refund to the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, of return, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u117	If we all agree, it's okay. There was a fact that could not happen, that a Member voted in a place that was not his seat. It can't happen again, of course. But we can census it and vote by valid vote. Now this has been erased from me. [[Murmurs.]] It was another vote by Mr. Puy's delegation: 20 votes in favour, 39 against and 14 abstentions. It was like that, wasn't it? [[Assentment.]] Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia. We vote. Vote of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 1/2017, of 8 February, of general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u118	Open the doors, please. We're still on the agenda. As it has been commented, it corresponds to the point of motions. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the instructions given for the realization in the 2016-2017 course of the bachelor's assessment tests for access to the university, as well as the demands to be made to the Central Government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u119	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Trenor, I love to see you calmly. I'm going to present a motion that is the result of an interpellation that has been described as "finally unpolitical" or "politically thin". I don't remember, because, as the councilman at the time mixed the motion with the people's valet, I don't know exactly what was the order in which the terms were exposed. The truth is I lost myself at that time. In any case, this is not a motion — and I regret it very much — neither powerful nor populist, which is the mantra that has for this plenary the People's Party, which is so accustomed to the uniqueness of the messages when they are full. Today's campaign is a tremendous and populism as far as the Socialist Party's initiatives are concerned. [[Applause]] He's not strong, nor is he populist. It is a motion that is a consequence — as I said — of an interpellation that was made about the system of access to the university of the student who is racing in a bachelor's degree in our autonomous community. As we all know, the system of ancient selectivity has been modified. And, in fact, such a change was that it was expected that there would be no such system of access to the university. But the current configuration in the Parliament of the State, in the Congress of Deputies, made the Government of the State publish the Royal Decree Law 5/2016, which therefore left with no effect the final assessments of the Bachelorate, which, as we all know, had binding character to obtain the title. And that assessment is without force until the regulations that result from the social and political pact for education are published. As we all know, there is a subcommittee in Congress of Deputies working on the development of that social and political pact. But what's true is, in the meantime, the student has to continue to access the university with appropriate procedural guarantees. As a result of this real decree of law — which is an extraordinary legislative figure and urgency — the Ministry of Education issued in December last year an order which is an order that has vigil for this course that we are about to finish, for the course 20162017. It is therefore an interim order, an urgent order and an order that was indispensable to dictate to ensure access to university this course. As a result of that order I have just referred to, the Education Council issued a resolution on 21 February — although it was published at the end of March — to regulate for this course — except for this course, I insist — the evaluation of the Bachelorate for access to university. Just like the previous order, it was an urgent rule, it was a necessary rule. It is a regulation that applies — because these tests start tomorrow in this autonomous community — for the first time in this course, which is applied in an absolutely hasty manner. But I'm sure it's going to work out well, and I'm convinced because Galicia's education system has good professionals both in the structure of the Education Council and in the centers, and of course in the Greek universities. So I'm sure it'll be all right and that it'll go forward without any major complications. But that does not take away our understanding from the Socialist Party that it is necessary to dictate regulations that stabilize the system and that ensure a consistent and consistent functioning as long as you are not told the development regulations to which I referred at the beginning of my intervention, that is, that which comes out as a result of that social and political pact for education. And, therefore, what is required in this motion is that, first of all, the Galician Union urges the Government of the State to develop stable regulations — and hence to have a vigil beyond a course of application — so that the university access system has a continuous framework of reference, a safe framework of reference. And that, once the Government of the State tells you this regulation, the Education Council itself tells you the corresponding regulations which, with rank of order rather than resolution, also stabilizes that system of access. And that's the case, why? Because we can't be constantly waiting for the State to issue an order or a resolution for each course. We have to have a stable frame, and that's all we ask. And we certainly do not ask for it with the necessary force — because we understand that it is a matter of necessity even, if they want, extreme — because, if not, for the next course, for the 2017-2018 course, if there is no such regulation, we are going to meet again in a situation like this one. And as there is sufficient time for the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport to regulate, and there is sufficient time for the Council of Education to publish its regulations, we believe that it is necessary for this Parliament to approve this motion which we have, which, I insist, has no other objective than to stabilize the system of access to university. And, as your lords can check, at no time questions the figure of the People's Valedor. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u121	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. This debate, which, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party has well explained, derives from the interpellation made in the previous plenary session, we believe that it has also ended in this House — as it were — after all that happened — to synthesize it this way — with regard to the system of evaluation for access to university — which, of course, begins tomorrow morning, June 7th, and which has become popularized as ABAU. From the Galego Nationalist Block, we believe that it is the result of an absolute improvisation and an absolutely foolish management as to what it has to do with the elaboration of these tests, with its design and with all the regulations that it has come to give them shape. And it was, in addition, that absolutely clumsy and improvised management, the result of the commitment to apply to the last consequences of a law that was born dead from its beginning, as is LOMCE; but also for the fear of refusing to interfere with its application when most of the educational community in this country, the education community in Galicia, went out into the streets rejecting it. They've been engaged to the last moment and even the latest consequences of imposing a revalide, even to obtain the bachelor's degree. And when they had to retreat because there was no other one left — they were in parliamentary minority in the Spanish Courts and the suspension procedures of the LOMCE itself had already begun — the Spanish Government decided to take out an order that was applied in Galicia — we say that its elaboration is improvised and cheated — without criterion and even without legal guarantee to the more than 10,000 people — approximately 10,500 — who will be competing for the next few days with those tests. And I don't say so either the Block says it or they say it by the forces of opposition, but at the moment it says it to the people's own valet, which is not exactly an institution against, as a rule, the People's Party proceeding at the Galician Union. They had to amend themselves over the past few months, both in the weightings, because they were prejudicing the student with the initial version, which then modified — something terrible, absolutely terrible, if we take into account that in these tests the student plays an important part of his immediate future, as is access to the qualification they want, and for what they chose an academic itinerary that later the Board intended that in some cases it was not worth anything, as patching up from Madrid as they could the fact that there has been a student who will compete for the tests by a law prior to LOMCE, as if it were the first time it happened something similar. When COU was removed, for example, ladies and gentlemen, up to six specific calls were held for the student to study these studies. Here they decided to resolve with a transitional disposition, because we imagine someone would notice at the last minute of the matter. The event, from our point of view, with ABAU, with the proofs of access to university, also left to the discovery, or made even more clear, as if someone had some kind of doubt, that LOMCE is still in force, alive and, in addition, giving it to the tail, while the Government has limited the forces of opposition in a parliamentary commission that we do not have quite clear in which it will end, whether in a profound reform or in a washing of the People's Party's face, which now goes on a dialogueal party in educational matters, let's remember, after unilateral approval, with all the voices against, the LOMCE. We assume you've given him another deal like this, from night to morning. Since the BNG we will support the motion presented by the Socialist Party, which ultimately calls for the necessary measures to be taken to prevent something similar to what happened during this course in 2017-2018. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that this is also an interim measure, as is collected in the resolution part of the motion, until they complete the work of that subcommittee and leave the Spanish courts another educational law — we will see what support and what content they contain. For us it will not be left that the course coming from the student, the teacher, and also, in general terms, the families of this country have something more sure about not only the evaluation systems, but the selection and writing systems of the student who wants to access the university of this country. It's not a ballad matter, it's not a question to handle in a devious and improvised way. And we believe that this motion comes in some way to lay the groundwork so that next year at least it's a little bit more sure to accompany the graduate student. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u124	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. This motion will be supported by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. We're going to support her even though, as we have had the opportunity to comment again, we have not shared with the Socialist Party her position on the educational pact that is at the end of her initiative. But we will support it because this initiative has led me to a concern expressed repeatedly in this House and on which we could precisely ask in the plenary before the advisor; with little success, of course, how it usually happens. Well, far from a clear answer about the relevance or error of the evidence of the revalids, we find distractions and evasives. It was not clear what was the position of this government, whether it was in agreement with the revalids posed at its time or are more comfortable now with the decaffeinated version, after that exchange of chromiums they were forced to once they lost the absolute majority. The only thing that has become clear to us — as since the first day we came into this Parliament and we were able to ask some questions about education — is that this councillor lacks his own opinion and that as much as he aspires to be a delegation from the Government, a delegation, of course, is highly applied, being one of the only autonomous communities that has not yet questioned LOMCE or the revised comments. Assent, shut up and obey, one thing or the opposite doesn't matter, it depends on the day. Our posture, however, is meridionally clear and fully coincides with that expressed over and over again by the educational community, which says "no" to some revalid by segregators, elites and uniformizers, which says not to these tests, revalids, evaluations or how I want to call them, not to the primary revalids, of course, not to the secondary revalids and not to an improvised revalid-selectivity at the last moment without the slightest prior planning. For In Marea, take a university access system without profiling the following, ladies and gentlemen, it's not serious. It is not serious that this country's 2nd Bachelor's teacher had to pass the course without knowing that the student would be examined or, even worse, that the subject that entered the exams had been changed to just a few months before the test took place, in February, even on the contents that the school schedule established in the first quarter. It's a real purpose. It's not fair for young people and girls who have spent months and months of distress in class without knowing what they were going to have to examine, nor for their families, worried about what the new evidence would be. It actually suggests irresponsibility and the evident proof of the lack of planning for this council. Anyone would say that the daughters and children of the lords of the People's Party don't have to be examined to get to college. Of course, the results of these tests, when you go to private university, are not so important. That would explain the disinterest that the Council has shown in this matter. However, as the children and children of the workers and workers in this country go to public university, they and they were worried about cutting notes to be able to enter the selected career, they were worried about what content they had to study to examine themselves -- who from here we took advantage of to wish for a lot of action these days, tomorrow, last and Friday. Because they were worried and they were waiting for adequate, clear and concrete information from the Government, but that information came wrong, late and the trail, eight months after an educational calvary. "Education Calvary, eight months," entitled La Voz de Galicia, a newspaper which is not suspected of being an accomplice to En Marea. Legal insecurity has denounced the valet, as it has been said here, not suspected of being an intimate friend of En Marea. No inventions of this parliamentary group, no inventions of the opposition, so they've been complaining about the news blackout for months, asking and having silence for answers. We hope that this government will change its attitude at once and listen to the educational community, listen to what teachers have to say about how these tests should be carried out, listen to their complaints, doubts and concerns, and put all their effort into providing the education system in general, and the system of access to the particular university, of enough stability for the student to be able to care about the important, that is his training. That's why, as I said, we will vote on the PSdeG proposal, because we understand that it would help to avoid the problems detected this year, the unjustified delays in the subjects, the format and content of the evidence, the exemption of the repeater student and a long et so many dispropositions that the hasty application of LOMCE brought to our classes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning. After Mr Álvarez's various interventions in the last few weeks, Mr Corridor's response to Commission 4th and the answer also by the inquiry of the Education Counsellor himself, Mr Rodríguez, here in the plenary, I will try to explain for the third time why both the educational community and students in Galicia have to be calm, and in addition to putting together a noise and confusion that could generate around these ABAU tests. I'd like to highlight a few things, before I begin, as a headline. First of all, the legal security of students is guaranteed. Secondly, we respect and always understand — not from time to time, like the Members of the House of Marea — the reaction of the people's valet, to whom the relevant explanations have also been sent. And thirdly, we commend Ciug's work on a process of change and adaptation to the university access tests. We guarantee the willingness to coordinate between universities and the Galician Union to always seek security for students. Having said that, we must remember that this situation is framed in a process of regulatory change, in a political moment — in this case, not a technical one — in which corrections and modifications are made with an objective, which is to achieve an improvement in the education system in this country. Galicia is an example, in addition, because in the last PISA reports it is at the head of this report as far as improvement is concerned. We are — we are — working on a state pact for education, and this involves negotiations, we have agreements, whose results we cannot always ask for and request for in advance or for the previous month; that is, we have to give time, we have to give margins, contributions from different autonomous communities, to be rigorous by distinguishing technical criteria from political criteria. We believe that in this case a political reading is made by the Socialist Party of a complaint sustained on a purely technical, timely matter at a time. I say this because, if we talk about the evaluation tests, these tests are regulated in Royal Decree Law 5/2006 and Ministry Order 1941/2016. What does that order do? That order only develops the real decree passed by the Spanish Government, after the agreement with the autonomous communities at the sectoral conference and subsequently ratified at the Congress of Deputies with a vote in favour of the Socialist Party and other groups. Well, from a Socialist Party that we don't know if it's going to be that socialist party or cheap populism from today on. We don't know where it's going to be, whether it's going to be that line or whether it's going to change now to be the "no" party. [[Applause]] On the other hand, if we're talking about the resolution agreed in Galicia between the Union and Ciug, I'm telling you that it's a realization of the relevant rules to give security to the student in Galicia, always with the desire for cooperation and cooperation in the process of change. The processes of change — I insist — cannot be for the previous year; i.e., we have to leave. That resolution was not mandatory. We found that in other autonomous communities it didn't take place, it wasn't so agile, it didn't have that will we had in Galicia to work together. So we shouldn't transfer to citizens, students or educational community that every change or change is a problem or a complication. Because that will surely be very difficult to reach the pact, and surely it will be very difficult to move forward if every change is identifying the problem. So let's work together on the great state pact in education. In this particular case of change in ABAU a problem was moved that was not such, rather than the inclusion of the language matter in the test. All students from 2nd in Bacharelato began the course with the knowledge that Lingua Galaga is a trunk subject and therefore evaluated in the new access test, ABAU — which, unlike the previous one, only evaluated the 2nd course in Bacharelato; the previous one evaluated the first and the second one. It was in Decree 310/2016 of 29 July, where literature II and Gallega materials were already included as trunks; therefore, there was no doubt that it was included. So what you call improvisation -- or tricked, at one point, by the spokesperson of the Block -- is neither improvisation nor is cheated, is to adapt to the relevant modifications with the hand held, with the permanent collaboration, having clear, in addition, some things that I would like to reiterate. The situation is the result of a dialogue process, the legal security of students is fully guaranteed, the resolution published by the Council collects certainty and guidance. And from the very first moment, Ciug and the Council worked in coordination to alleviate all the confusion generated at a given time, with the weightings of exclusive competence from universities. The only thing the Council did in this case was to hold hands and collaborate to speed up the response. We are not going to support this motion because we believe that the explanations by the Greek Government are sufficiently supported by facts and solvents, if at some point they have caused some misunderstanding or confusion. All I want is a lot of luck to the students who have the ABAU exam tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. For the motion's own group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the positive vote of the Galego Nationalist Bloc and En Marea on this motion, because, in fact, what is meant is to overcome this improvisation that this course was through this motion. Mrs. Egerique, look, really, this is the same as when a student asks him the 18th century and has no idea, but, as he studied the 19th century, he writes the 19th century and hopes to achieve success through a qualification with praise. [[Applause]] Let's see, Mrs. Egerique, have you read the motion? Absolutely not! [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] He didn't read it in a oblique way or on top of it. Because you've challenged me with things that have nothing to do with anything... Mrs. Prado, I'm not talking to you. It has nothing to do with what we ask and with what we propose in the motion. He gave me the same answer as the CEO, gave me the same answer as the advisor. It's just that you haven't been politically fine, you've been disastrous. And you know what the problem is? Do you know what the problem is, Mrs. Egerique? The problem is to bring the arguments to read in the plenary. Because you were expecting an intervention of my aggressive, powerful and populist, and you didn't find it. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Paz, do you find yourself ill with health? You find yourself ill with health?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u129	Quiet, quiet, Mr. Pazos! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Peace, be quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u130	So, as you expected an intervention in that tone, I brought the thing prepared. But it's just that I did a proposed intervention: I called to overcome... I didn't blame the Education Council at any time. Did you notice? Do you mind when I did the exhibition? I said, first, that the ministry regulates the corresponding state legislation and then that the Education Council does what it has to do with it. I even explicitly recognized here that I'm convinced that ABAU is going to go ahead and it's going to come out well, because of the professionalism it has all the, let's say, human resource capacity that the Council has. I know her — believe me — I think she's a lot better than you. And, therefore, yes... No, it's a question of professional origin, nothing else, eh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not above anyone, but obviously, if we're talking about some education, I assume that in principle, I'm going to have some knowledge, more than nothing because I've been working on it for thirty years. And, therefore, it will be... But, look, anyway, you vote that you don't, which is what you're going to do, and then, when you're doing well, tell the ministry to tell you the corresponding regulations. Because you are in the 4th Education Commission, and a Member and Member of Parliament here too, and you will remember that we have a proposal to limit the number of choices that can be made by teachers of public education; you have appealed to the responsibility of the professor of public education, but here, a week ago, the council itself is limited to two subjects which can be asked for as a matter. I mean, the opposition never has a good idea, but then it turns out that some of them end up appearing in what you, with acceptable criteria -- acceptable, because these are proposals that we share -- they put in motion; and that's the sad reality. But you keep voting that you don't, and when the next course, in March, we don't have the regulations published, they say they're the champions of the organization and they regulate them without any need. This is the People's Party that you have just defended in the field of a proposal that, I insist, I would like as a sole objective to improve security in the legal field of the bachelor's assessment tests. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u131	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Motion by G. P. de En Marea, on the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with emergency care service 112
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u132	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u133	Thank you, President. At the end of the plenary session, she called on the Vice-President and, a month after asking him in this Chamber what he was going to do in the face of the 112 situation, a situation of lack of resources and coordination which has obviously increased with the transfer decided by the Council of Galicia without any kind of dialogue, in which two essential problems were located very soon. One, the derivative of the absence of template dialogue and the absence of compensation for workers and workers by the shift to the new work centre. And another, derived from the change of the operating system. A system that has failed before even the building was inaugurated, something that has warned workers and workers since the beginning, concerned that this would cause problems once attention had begun from the centre of the Road. A circumstance which, despite being warned, did not have any response by the Administration until the transfer was made and could be verified as the template warnings were founded; i.e., that the problems had already existed before and that, from the inauguration itself, the program was still not ready. So there was a situation that, in our understanding — and so we denounced it on previous occasions — was a very serious situation because we are talking about the emergency care of the country. Also a circumstance that accompanied insufficient training with the new program. A circumstance too, to our understanding, very serious because, I repeat, we are talking about attention to all emergencies in the whole of Galicia. During the past visit to the dependencies of the 112 we made by several Members and Members last week, in which, of course, if you prevented you from entering the central committee, that is, the workers and workers of the same emergencies, the Galician Union recognized the errors that the computer platform was having, but it wanted to minimize the impact by saying that never, ever, there had been critical failures. And I wonder what a critical failure it is. In the April debate we warned that the platform had failed and been disabled for quite a while, for several minutes, accumulating calls that were being collected with pencils and paper. I mean, 112 staff collected by that time, when it was that debate, calls with pencils and paper. Mistakes that are very serious — I repeat — because we are talking about emergency care throughout Galicia. That circumstance that we understood was so serious and it was obvious that it had already been warned, from the very beginning, by the people who had to use that operating system, should have made the Council of Galicia sit to work to solve it as soon as before; a concern that should have occupied them day and night, however, failed to pay attention. We would like to know what responsibilities will be imposed on Mrs Martín de Pozuelo Romay's company, ATOS Spain, because until now we had a program that worked and spent the Government a million euros, plus another half a million euros on computer servers, for a program that actually works badly, a program that makes mistakes. I mean, we had a program that worked, we spent millions and a half, and we have a program that doesn't work well in the emergencies of Galicia. Who is going to take responsibility for these mistakes? This contract was entered into in 2015, we're in 2017 and it's still out of date when the dependencies are already opened. And so if you're not ready, someone will have to take on those responsibilities. On the very day of the visit, on day 1 in the morning, the platform was blocked again, accumulating up to 10 emergency calls in the queue; emergencies that may be of all kinds: someone who is drowning, a fire, an accident on a ship, absolutely any kind of emergency. It's a very serious situation and should be given priority in resolving it by the Government. We've been asking the Galician Council — but we've been asking workers and workers for a long time now — that they feel they're negotiating, that they're middle, that they're trying to solve the problem. He's also responsible for the Galician board even though he privatized the service, because that's also a political option; something we've already transferred here to Vice President Rueda. And today we not only ask him, not only do the workers and the workers ask him, but today he is also asked by the Galego Labour Relations Council, which is mediating the labour conflict and which he has just recommended to both the company and the workers, that they request meetings with the Administration — that is, with the Vice-President — to mediate and try to resolve the conflict. Come on, it's not going anymore, what they've been asking for months of workers and workers. See if, now that the Galego Labour Relations Council has asked for it, the Vice-President is worthy to sit down with these staff to try to solve a problem that is very serious. That's why we're asking you again in this motion, which is nothing extraordinary: that the Union feels with the workers and workers solving a real problem that's there. And that, of course, is your responsibility. That's the first point of the motion. But we also want the relevant procedures to recover 112 as a public service, because — I said earlier — privatize the emergencies or privatised firefighters or privatised any service in our country is only a political decision, political responsibility and political solution. It is the Council of Galicia that has to initiate the proceedings before the end of the contract, in order to reverse the service to the public; and it is now, in parallel, in addition to solving the current problem, when they have to start preparing these procedures so that, when the contract is over, you can enjoy a public service of quality that can be coordinated with all the services of the country. A complaint that has been made by professionals, firemen in our country and health services for a long time, that of disunity, derived from the absence of a map of resources that has already given us much disgust in our country. We also spoke in the previous plenary session: the Fandicosta accident or the problems that occurred with the sinking of the New Marcos, but the Galician Union is still looking elsewhere. So what we want here is two points: that they solve, on the one hand, the current problem and, on the other hand, that they take care of starting proceedings to return to the public a service that must never be in private hands, because emergency care is a very sensitive service, gentlemen. We believe that it is quite clear and that, despite this, attempts to make the strike committee and the company committee go down not only, but the work of the workers and emergency workers in our country, they won't make the problem go away. In the past full, the Vice-President of the Galician Council was attempting to demean what they were currently transferring to the 112 Workers' Assembly, the Galician Emergency Techniques Association and the Inter-union Firemen's Bureau, denouncing discoordination in that unfortunate accident of the New Marcos Fisherman, saying that they did not represent all the workers and workers, that not all the firemen were represented. They have already been challenged by the professionals, transferring that representation is more than 90 % of all the templates in Galicia. But it's more: as he boasted of better supporting this model of volunteers, we also have to tell him that we must remind him that last week, Civil Protection of Pontecesures denounced the lack of coordination and the problems that there were with 112. Literally, they moved that it was as if 112 didn't exist. So both the professionals in this country and those volunteers, who are the preferred model, seem to be from the Vice President of the Galician Union, report that the emergency service is not working properly. And so it's the responsibility of the Galician board to solve, to solve a problem that, I repeat, is serious, because we're talking about emergency care in our country. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. This non-law proposition that we're dealing with is two parts that actually are one. What we're dealing with here, in our view, is the background and motivations of the strike that 112 workers and workers have kept since April 15th. These workers and workers not only demand their work rights; they also demand to work in optimal conditions, with proper means, and have outstanding reasons for their demands. They look at the operation of the 112 as something of theirs; so they want the maximum guarantees, because they are aware of what they have in their hands day by day. They are the ones who feel the distress of those who call and suffer each call. Believe me, they're afraid and afraid of this hasty transfer. Training was minimal: 20 hours, under normal circumstances, would be scarce; but with a program — the new platform — still unfinished, without testing, where training is interrupted every minute because it fails and technicians have to turn it around and repair it, real training won't come even 5 hours effective, 20, as we have already said, the presences. This is one of the causes of the strike. Day 15 begins with minimum services of 100 % and 17 are determined between 60 % and 80 %, provided that the day of transfer is 80 %. On the 18th morning it was planned to paralyze the transfer because there was a possibility of temporary, as it was later. And besides, that same day too in the morning the platform fell completely. Still, the transfer was done and what we all know happened: at two and thirty in the morning of the 19th the system was collapsed, with fires fueled by a strong wind in the north of the country, with uprooted trees and multiple emergencies. The phones that the population is already used to calling when they need help have been dumb, and the people desperate. Yeah, I know, they already told us about it at the institutional visit we did last week. By the way, they didn't let the press or the company committee go in that day, which they stayed at the door and couldn't come with us. That's right, they were all inside. There was a lot of nervousness, a lot of defensive people. There were no quiet consciences, they were profusely legged, but the increased prepotence... yes, yes, there were restless consciences, yes, sir, and the prepotency did not let them recognize it. Yes, sir. It was always the workers' fault, remember, that few were — as they were not present — That's why none of the incidences were recognized. Yeah, that laugh, like that, it's an offense, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u136	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u137	Therefore, none of the incidents was recognized and, thus, by chance, neighbors of St. Sadurniño, who should be offended, or of Naron, who tired of calling 112 without response to their requests for help, never existed and were an invention of the opposition to tear down the Government—little government, pathetic!—. As far as wage claims are concerned, they notice that the contract was made according to San Marcos. The workers organized their lives in view of that location. With the news of the times, the displacements and others are different and a negotiation is imposed — and we never lose the horizon of what is a multi-millionist collective of 65 workers — but a three-band negotiation, because there are three entities involved: the workers' collective, the adjudicate company of the service and the administration. It'll be nice to think of a contract change when you've changed your working conditions. Finally, if we don't understand the cover of the transfer made in the middle of a strike where everything failed — platform, weather forecast, fires — we don't understand the PP model, which leaves private hands to manage a strategic service. Take things carefully, negotiate and reach a satisfactory agreement for all, fix the program and think about moving this service into direct management. Functional defects detected in the last month and peak are not received. For all this, Mrs Solla, we are going to approve this GNP, which is presenting the Group in Marea. And nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u138	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, gentlemen. It is true that we are in a situation that demands an urgent solution: the summer campaign is there and 112 services are still on strike and operating failures—I think we all know— It's been more than a month and a half of the employees of the company hired, and the Government of Greece is not taking any clear responsibility to resolve it, not to mention that the courts have cancelled the minimum services issued in the Official Journal of Galicia of 12 April. We understand, from then on, that it was irresponsibility to carry out this transfer in mid-April, without having agreed on the minimum working conditions for those affected and sufficiently tested the new platform. The problem isn't just work, it's work, too; and, much less, the workers' guilt, as those in charge of 112 try to show. In the absence of a logical prior negotiation before changing working circumstances, what seems, if not improvisation, if a more complete lack of forecast in the operation of the new communication platform; implications for the operation of the platform, such as in the area of geolocation, of sending SMS warnings to charges and operating commands; the important protocol of allocation of resources has failed; response times of more than 6 minutes are accredited; lack of information to the operating staff in the room about how queue calls are going, which were not working either. There were both incidences in Cesuras, or in Pontecesures, as in Monforte, on May 26th; mild a priori — and less ill than mild — incidences, which put in doubt, precisely, the ability to act and act in reasonable response times by the 112 services. Even the inter-union table of firemen in Galicia addressed Vice President Rueda with an open letter, on May 28, expressing his grave concern at the incidents that have occurred, in these and other cases, demanding the immediate solution of this serious problem in an essential service such as 112. At the institutional visit requested by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which held the Commission on 1 June and which, as has been said, was not allowed to enter any representative of the workers and the workers and the media in order to be able to counter information, it was exposed, by emergency officials and the Axega—of course, in an unacceptable way, in any case—to a completely normal functioning of the service, only affected by strike. Even there are certain pressures — yes, of low intensity — conversations that we have had, logically, with workers and workers in the 112 service, which are becoming smaller, more able, the functioning of the services and, above all, that are obviously diminishing the working capacity of the workers there. We need — I believe — more stricter matters, more responsibility; and I hope that issues that I hope will be anecdotal, such as that, today, and please check and, if not, correct themselves, on the 112 Axega website, are still located the 112 services in San Marcos. Please, we're talking serious things. We did not make these web geolocation errors in this case. It is that it is not rigorous and certainly cowardly to attribute the problem to 112 employees exclusively. They present, as we have repeatedly demanded in Commission 1st, a technical report on the situation and the consequences of the operation of the new platform. They resolve, through the necessary collective bargaining, the labour conflict and do not leave it alone in the hands of the concessionary company, because it is the Council of Galicia that holds the service; they do not continue to disagree, we do not have a serious emergency with the operation of 112 precisely in the current situation. For that reason, and taking into account other services that have to be incorporated into the new platform, we will support — because we are in all this work, in the area of the 112th Road transfer services — this initiative put forward by the En Marea Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u140	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to speak calmly, forcefully, with little populism easy and without entering paternalism or [...] that you did in your previous intervention, Mr. Álvarez. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] I would wait for your apology, for the intervention you had before. And I also want to leave behind Mrs. Solla's demagogy, the falsehoods of Mr. Rivas and Mr. Díaz. Today we approach an initiative on the transfer of the 112 Integral Emergency Care Centre: a magnificent centre that the members of the 1st Commission were able to see and check on on a visit last week. So I just listened to this gallery, we had to attend a completely different visit, because if you came to say that you didn't see the calls on the queue, when there was a wall video, which made that screen six times, where everyone we were there could see how the calls went into the queue. Mr. Villoslada, change your glasses, because if you haven't seen the glue calls in that video wall, you have to change your glasses. Well, I, as a Galician, am proud of those facilities, gentlemen. In the 21st century, we have a vanguard facility. If you want to pour out falsehoods here, if you want to demagogy with a subject as sensitive as emergencies and generate insecurity to Galician society, there you, there. We have a full record in which we are already seeing what their rigor is, what their seriousness is, and what responsibility they have as representatives of the Greek people in this chamber; that is, zero in responsibility, with their demonstrations. Look, Mrs. Solla, you said here a lot of falsehoods, and also a lot of falsehoods that were rebutted to you by the Vice President of the Board the other day, that were rebuffed to you, in the visit we made to 112, by all the staff. I'm very grateful not only that I had received the Director General, but that I was the whole management team, all of it. Of course, Mr. Rivas said they were all in there; man! for it was better that they were all, Mr. Rivas, and that they could answer us the questions you asked on the platform. I already know that you are very smart; I, sorry to tell you, I am an ignorant in technical matters and I very much appreciated the explanations that have been made to us in a completely pedagogical way and for us to understand that amalgam of technical issues, which were difficult to understand. I understand that to a primary teacher -- as you appealed there that you were a primary teacher -- as such, don't miss about it by lowering the level of explanation a little bit; I very much appreciated that they had lowered the level of explanation, because I technically feel an ignorant in that matter. No, I'm telling the truth; you told his truth, I'm telling the truth that I saw there. You said the platform was down. They already explained there that the platform did not fall; that at a certain point operator R fell and, when operator R fell across Galicia, the calls of R fell across Galicia and, therefore, it was not that the platform fell, but that the server of R was not going to. And what did you do to the platform? What did you do to those facilities that we have at the vanguard of the 21st century? Then move to the Phone automatically. That possibility, if we were in the center of San Marcos — which you are so strange — could not be possible. So instead of taking note with pencils and paper on the Road, they would be taking note with pencils and paper on San Marcos, with the difference that, rather than a few minutes, if it took a few hours until operator R was operational. Mrs. Solla, tell the truth, because that's the truth, and that's what they explained to you there. [[Applause]] They said the system had failed before the building was inaugurated; but they already explained that the platform had already begun, the moment it closed on San Marcos, on the Road. Tell me when the platform failed before the building was inaugurated; Mr. Rivas, please don't lie with that disarray because the lie itself leads you to say that the 18th day had dropped the platform, when the center began on the 19th. You cannot lie so much without any consequences, Mr Rivas; please be serious and rigorous. Look, they say they didn't let the company committee and the media. The visit Mr. Díaz asked for was an institutional visit to the center, didn't you ask for a meeting with the company committee, did you, Mr. Díaz? If you want to meet with the company committee, like the other groups that have met, you have the possibility to do so at any time. The company committee asked me to come in and I gave him my card to get in touch with me; I'm still waiting for the call. Just as they say he did not meet and he did not mediate the board of Galicia; the director general offered to meet with them; on seven occasions he met with the board of Galicia, in seven!, and from there he also offered to mediate with the company. They're still waiting for the Director General and the Vice President and the Vice-President — as you say — to meet, to ask him for that meeting, Mrs Solla. Of course, you say that now the Galego Labour Relations Council asks for it because that's what you're mediating. What's wrong? That the Galego Labour Relations Council is not able to mediate with those who ask it to go up like those who live on the Road than those who live in the Coruña? Because it doesn't seem reasonable, Mrs. Solla, that those workers who used to work at San Marcos and come from the Road, and they were 21 kilometres away, now -- according to you and according to the company committee -- are also affected; they will benefit, because they have the job next to their home, and you can't expect a linear climb. And Mr. Rivas said, "Of course, they're millionaires." They're millionaires, but do you know they're 30% above the collective agreement, Mr. Rivas? Do you know that? I don't understand the workers' claims either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u143	...I am the first one I want to reach an agreement and an understanding. And we all have to keep working to make this happen, for everyone's sake. But please stop saying falsehoods, stop making demagogy on this subject...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u145	...because emergencies are a very, very sensitive subject. Mrs. Solla: in point 2, when you say, "Let a public service recover," I'm sorry to tell you it's already a public service; another thing is management, and management is the same as the fire department in Santiago Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Paula.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u147	...where you rule, and you haven't changed it; or the Crown Deputy, who also has the same indirect management and where you, ruling with the PSOE and the Block, haven't changed it either, so first of all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u149	...do where they rule and then give thanks to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Closing tower, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u151	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the opposition groups for supporting the proposal. I think the People's Party didn't really understand what he was wearing on the paper, since the second point obviously refers to direct management, which is what we understand for a public service. We understand that you don't understand the same thing, but if you find it hard to understand it as it is on the paper, I'll make an amendment in you so you can put "direct management" and then you can vote in favour of it. Mrs. Prado: The truth is, if you ask me to tell the truth, you can't also ask me to say the same thing that you say, because you're the only one who did it was to lie throughout your intervention. So the truth is, both things are incompatible. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're not in the debate. [[Murmurs.]] It seems that now the workers and the workers of 112 are privileged, who came to them wonderfully with the transfer. And they'll have to thank you. You say you're waiting for them to call you on the phone -- you seem to have a special vice president. You could have made it easier for those workers and workers to enter; we certainly don't, because we don't have that ascendant. I hope that you will also have to tell the Vice-President of the Board that two and a half months ago this Member has requested a meeting and is still waiting — by the way, the meeting that I will repeat on one occasion—the meeting that also asks the workers and workers, but the Council of Galicia refuses to sit with them and them. It has to be the Labour Relations Council what it tells you right now what they've been asking you for months to do, and it's just to sit down and negotiate. It seems quite regrettable to me, Mrs Prado, that you say that the Labour Relations Council is not able to mediate, which is what you said here in the intervention. I have respect for the administrations and, if you consider that the Labour Relations Council is not able to mediate, surely the Galician Union will have the ability to transfer it on the day it feels — if it is right to sit down to resolve a conflict that affects the emergencies of our country. You said something that's not true, probably because you have no information. It confused the day the notes were taken with pencils and paper with the day — which was referred to during the visit — that the platform would fall. It wasn't the same day, Mrs. Prado. That day the notes were taken with pencils and paper was in April, in an intervention this Member had asked the Vice-President of the Galician Council. There was only a week before the strike started, so it wasn't. And that's fruit that there's incidences all the time. And I ask again, what are you going to do? Because -- straight -- we had a program that worked; we have a program that doesn't work, and where you spent 1.5 million euros plus 10 million of building that building so big and so megalomanous that we now have for the emergencies of the country. There are two points. As I have now done — I do not know whether or not I will accept this amendment in your voice — you can already understand what the two points mean and you can vote for them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Álvarez. What do you want the word for? Please stand up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u153	Thank you. In accordance with Article 76.1, and Mrs Prado's judgment of value just made on my speech — not only because she was not in the debate — she wanted to use the floor. I remind you that you called me [...] in your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u154	Excuse me a moment. Yes, indeed, there is a trial of value, which was that you did a masculine intervention. I didn't notice that, but, anyway, you have the right to that shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make it clear to the whole House that I could have a powerful intervention. Frankly, this is interpretable, but at the moment I was told that I made an intervention [...] because I was giving the reply to a woman's lady converts to [...] who makes that statement. I therefore ask Mrs Prado, one of two, to withdraw her words or that you withdraw that statement from the Journal of Sessions with regard to my intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u156	Thank you. I think I was clear about what I said, or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u157	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u158	I did not perceive that his had been an intervention [...]. I framed it inside...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u159	No, no, it was Mrs Prado who made that statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u160	Silence! No, we're not going into debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u161	So I ask you to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions that statement to my intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u162	Excuse me, Mr. Álvarez, I'll answer this. It's a president's competition, so I'll answer this matter. I did not perceive that it was an intervention [...], because you addressed the honourable Member in the use of what is his profession, without more. That's how I perceived it, no more! No more! [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm not giving anyone else the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, I too was a deputy and I used my medical condition to beat up, and that's not why I'm... [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then why is it? I think I was going for that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's clear up where he was going. What's next? What is it? Give your voice to the scene. Where did he go?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. What I said was that it was a paternalist intervention and [...] because Mr. Álvarez told the honourable Member not to read the initiative or the motion or even in oblique. That's disrespectful. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u164	I am sorry, that is part of the daily debate of Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u165	That's a lack of respect and an absolutely paternalist intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u166	The story's gone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, he's retired, he's retired. [[Murmurs.]] He's retired because it was the perception that I had, in addition. And I usually, if for something I'm characterizing, it's because I'm paying attention to the debates. Of course, it's the role of a president, I think. Motion by G. P. de En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the action to be taken in relation to the development of the Public Transport Plan and the new Transport Map of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u167	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u168	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u169	Well, I was looking at the intervention and I wasn't very attentive to the debate, but I think the manager of the company that sells the software to 112 is the niece of Romay Beccaría, right? Everything is still the same in this country. All right! But it's a coincidence, we're not going to ask for an investigation commission for this, calm down. [[Applause]] Let's talk about Galicia's public transport plan. And we want to start by saying that the Greek Government couldn't make it worse, with more improvisation and less participation — they forgive their voice, but I have a pretty important flu. We couldn't do any worse in these years, since 2009, we haven't been able to lay the groundwork for making a public transport plan now, and so we're in worse conditions than if we had a government that had done our homework in a number of fields. There are intentions and facts. When Junta is talking about these days that this plan will improve the provision of services in rural areas, and throughout the country, we're talking about intentions that can't be demonstrated, selling advertising and propaganda again. But when we talk about improvisation, we don't talk about intentions, we talk about facts, we talk about that the Government of Galicia's Board only acted since there was a sentence in March 2016. And this is a fact, it's a fact! Before this sentence, the German Government has not been doing a planning work to replace a transport map that they now consider obsolete and not adapted to the 21st century. In February 2016, was that transport map not obsolete and not adapted to today? Why did they just start working — working in haste and running — after the Supreme Court judgement? We can also talk about what would be the best conditions for developing a public transport plan in this country. And there, no one who is honest can deny that, due to the absence of, for example, good land management and a good rural situation — rural municipalities — and the existence of metropolitan areas, districts, consortia entities, etc., it would be an effective tool to implement a public transport plan in Galicia. The disorientation of the territory in which you have been influenced by this country is a very important asset in developing a public transport plan. The lack of capacity of the municipalities — from many rural municipalities — to be able to intervene in transport policy is also an important factor in the lack of territorial management policies. You have resolutely suspended those duties of having a well-trailed and well-vertebrated country; you have also suspended in the policy of territorial balance, which balanced the Atlantic axis with rural, which reverses the trend towards abandonment and aging. The dramatic situation in many parts of the country — which has fled as seen in many of the forty-two preliminary drafts published on May 30, with areas where up to 36 % of the population has been lost in 20 years and that is why companies now leave these lines, because cannot be profitable—that rural situation is also a bad starting point for public transport. And what we can't do is just keep applying economic criteria that will aggravate that vicious circle of abandonment and aging, which is where we are now. This lack of rebalancing policies to ensure the future of rural areas leads us to a situation that greatly makes it difficult to maintain public transport lines in that area. And to reverse that situation needed planning, it took time, transparency and participation of all the agents who have to be involved, and none of that if you're doing it. The public transport plan should be framed in a future plan for rural areas, with marked targets and which, together with other measures of service and economic dynamisation, could reverse that situation. And once again, there's nothing of an integral plan, once again it's improvisation and gossip. We would start from a better situation if during the eight years of Mr. Feijóo's government, during those years, they were preparing a process of real participation, a process of elaboration of the real plan, in time, which could provide a solution to the needs of people. Because we have to differentiate the politician from the technician. You guys haven't made politics, and now you have technical solutions. And then they want to lead us to the sense of having to debate whether transport to demand is good or bad, or whether the integration of service is good or bad. These are technical solutions that are given all over the world, these are issues that, depending on how they apply, can do right or wrong. That's a technical matter. What's the political issue you didn't do. We're not going to fall into that mistake of getting us to argue here if we transport to demand yes or no. Depending on how it applies, it may be fine or it may be wrong. Improvisation, therefore, is demonstrated. It has often been mentioned here in this story, in the Emergency Measures Act in 2009, in the 2010 Resolution which extended the concessions, annulled for ten years by a Supreme Court judgment, of the fraudulent and misleading execution of the ruling, fraudulent and headstrong, of the Transportation Act 10/2016, which had to be amended months later in the Accompanying Law to give solution to the many companies that were going to give up the lines, which is what is now being done. Right now there is the public exhibition of forty-two preliminary drafts of public transport lines — sixty lines of public transport! — of companies that have resigned, and that, as they are not lawful, will leave the neighbours and neighbors of many rural areas without service. And the tenders for these farm projects can still be deserted. And we're going in a hurry, that she's never a good advisor to do things right. You had to do that because companies could give up, according to article 3.1 of the Law, and because you didn't do your duties in time. In addition, they are two-year contracts, because in 2019 the Law provides for a transport plan to be auctioned across the country. What's going to happen to these forty-two pre-projects that are going to be dealt with directly? Are you going to make the necessary investments for two years or are you planning to stay for the country's transport plan? A real joke, gentlemen of the People's Party! You're repeating the same mistakes as in 2009. They're just negotiating with companies and they're not doing a real participatory process -- you know that, and that's why they're presenting a non-law proposal by tomorrow that goes in that direction but that doesn't satisfy what is a plan for participation. They're repeating the errors of 2009 and 2010, and we're losing an opportunity to have a well done public transport plan that really solves people's needs, which can help reverse the trend in rural areas and which can improve the provision of services that are so needed in urban areas. So you haven't made any ongoing dialogue plans with the municipalities since 2016, with Fegamp, with the deputies, whatever!, to use a figure that is provided for in the law, which for us is key: the supra-municipal entities, the groups of municipalities to manage transport; either with any legal formula, consortia or whatever. The supramunicipal entity, without reaching the provincial deputies, is fundamental to providing a good service and to have more options to give that service, even to have the option that these supramunicipal entities have the sufficient, economic and technical entity, to be able to manage directly where companies do not find it profitable to provide a service. Many of the rural councils have no authority, no technical or economic, today, to make transport policies, and their work should be to plan these entities throughout the country, which guarantee that transport policy can be made from the municipalities. Our motion is — and I am finished — to expand the field of participation, to set up a study committee in this Parliament so that businesses, municipalities, ANPAs and consumer associations can be told about their impressions, needs and proposals. We are asking for this, we are asking that instead of ten days — ten days! — to study forty-two preliminary drafts be put on thirty days of public exposure. When someone wants to participate, it doesn't take ten days to study forty-two transport projects. That's evidence that you don't want to participate. Finally, we call for participation and transparency. In addition, transparency in a field where it is very necessary to see the background, the boxes of Vega Sicilia — etc. — and the benefits of large businesses — by the way, the large companies that aspire to do more of the cake at the expense of small businesses. This may mean a further cut to rural areas, a destruction of employment for small and medium-sized enterprises, which we must, as far as possible, avoid. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u170	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u171	Thank you, President. We're talking about a matter of great transcendence for people's lives, of course. It's also for the vertebration of the territory, especially of rural Galician, and also a fundamental issue for social cohesion. And above all, one thing, in addition, that has a lot of transcendence from the point of view of economic activity and job creation — it has been said here that this sector generates around 5,000 jobs across the country. And the BNG wants to do, first of all, in the debate on this matter, is to denounce the lack of information, the lack of transparency and participation with which this entire process was carried out resulting from the Supreme Court ruling of 2016. It's a quick, urgent, improvisation act that is deriving from the imposition of a series of force changes and without the necessary negotiation, without the necessary information and search for agreements. This seems very serious to us, that the debate has not been brought to this Parliament on this issue of such transcendence and that it has to be dealt with in the committees — in Commission 2nd — and today in plenary, by the opposition groups' initiatives. The normal thing in a matter like this would be for the Government to bring here the subject of debate, through an appearance and through other formulas, which we have analyzed, which we have discussed and which we will reach a minimum of agreement on it. And so it was with other sectors, with the municipalities, with the deputies, with consumer associations, with the ANPAs, with the companies in the sector, with the unions. There was no necessary negotiation and information on this issue, and this, of course, generated a state of alarm, of concern and — I would say — the rebellion of companies in the sector and the unions that arrived at the call of a strike by the transport unions. Of course, this has a previous story that I'm not going to stop telling, it's been related in part by comrade Antonio Sanchez. In any case, what I want to do is pretend that since that sentence occurred, it has acted hastily, hastily, improvisedly, after six years without doing anything. I mean, now the rushes have come. And beyond propaganda, the reality is that you're running a process that we understand has two keys. First — first — to make time on a calendar that is marked by the municipal elections of the year 2019. This is one of the keys that explains this process of these two years of experiments. Secondly, a fundamental question, a hidden agenda — which is what we think is most important — is that you are carrying out an experiment test field to change the road map of public transport in Galicia, concentrating the business — which there is a lot of business here — in large companies. And we have seen over the past few months how large companies in the sector — many in the sector — are buying Greek companies, precisely because of this uncertainty that is being generated with these new contracts. And this will lead to the destruction of that business fabric, of small and medium-sized enterprises that are precisely located throughout the country and, above all, in rural areas, which will disappear as a result of this recruitment process, because they do not have the capacity to compete with this form of contracts, with these large companies. And that will also lead to the destruction and precariousness of the working conditions of workers and workers. It is preparing the ground for the entry of large monopolies into the sector, and it is a design which is established by the European Union and which you have already applied. It follows the same pattern, for example, that ambulance contracts — which we already know how they developed and where they led, even with a judicial investigation on this issue — are conducted. With regard to the studies that have been carried out in the last three or four months and the proposals for this reorganisation and these new contracts, it seems to us, of course, hasty; it seems poor: the preliminary draft of these new contracts is a genuine legal framework, and this is taking place, because of all the errors that have these preliminary drafts, to an avalanche — or there is going to be — allegations, in this short term which have put ten months for the allegations, and, of course, it also causes a lot of doubts, for example, about the unilateral cancellation of the existing school transport contracts which are in force until 2020 and which will be removed in a way — I say — unilateral. What compensation are you going to have to pay for this? Or what compensation will they have to pay for the reduction they have applied to those 7% contracts or for the update of the CPI? In addition to the avalanche of allegations, there are also a lot of calls from the municipalities to the board, the General Directorate and the delegations to ask for explanations about this reality that they have just announced to you, through the DOG and through the press, a week ago. There is, of course, alarm and concern in the sector: first of all, as I said, in the unions, for the loss of jobs, for the precariousness of these contracts that are set down and that are going to be a change, a very important decline for the people who work in this sector. And also on the part of the business associations — however, because it turns out there is one that seems not to be very concerned, curiously, is one that has as manager a former senior position of the People's Party's Union; but these associations — the unions — at least have already managed to get the advisor to receive them and see what response she gives them today — and the other companies, the federations of transport companies, asked the president of the Union to interview them and still haven't answered them. Let's hope there's a quick answer. Finally, BNG will support this initiative. And the more we propose as adding that the processing of this so-called "first phase" of the Plan should be stopped and therefore the suspension of the processing of these forty-two contracts. We think there's time to analyze and study the matter calmly because, to begin with, they haven't solved yet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u173	...renunciation of current contracts and the opening of a process of dialogue and public participation and information at institutional and social levels. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u174	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good days — you will be here by now — but, in any case, good day to all and to all. Only 14 days ago In Marea he called in this same House to Mrs. Infrastructure and Living Counsellor on the development of the new Galician Transport Map — by the way, it is an exclusive preliminary draft and it will be an exclusive map and we will see it today, both with this initiative and in which it will take place tomorrow morning. By the way, it does not cease to be curious that the Counsellor will repeat permanently — and rightly so — that the public transport of passengers by road will be the star issue of this legislation in her department when in the name of its council — Infrastructures and Housing — the word "transports" does not fit. And the fact is that sometimes the subconscious betrays — or not — because, well-considered, the word "transport" did not accumulate any merit in the first two laws of Mr. President Feijóo to be included in the designation of the Infrastructure and Living Council so that it was also visible. I remember that it would be a negative visibility, exclusive in a Supreme Court ruling that, contrary to law, an act by the Directorate-General for Mobility for violating the Community regulation. In 2016, it was the result of an illegal act by the Government of the People's Party in 2010, which sparked the work of six years — from 2010 to 2016 — in the field of transport. Six years of passivity, paralysis and neglect of transport in general. Failure to fulfil obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Thoughtfully, there were substantive reasons — all negative — to justify that the Government — by action or omission — had limited the designation of the Council to Infrastructure and Living. It is quite true that he had an irrelevant presence in the Government's action, little more than his presence in the Council's denomination. From our point of view it was regrettable and unacceptable that a fundamental issue for any Government — even more for Galicia — such as mobility of persons and commodities, had been forgotten in the forms — the name of the Council — and, above all, the absence of government action of impulse. The judgement of the Supreme Court in 2016, for which the extensions of the concessions were annulled, shuddered the Council, and caused it to wake up from the clear lethargy in which it had been installed for six years. We must assume that the impact of the judgment has created uncertainty in public road passenger transport actors. The users lived with uncertainty, the business sector lived with the insecurity of the economic viability of their companies, and the adviser doubted which way to take — first I present the resource and then I withdraw it — and makes the decision which the Socialist Group considered to be correct: the Law of urgent measures, but called and exclusive by considering as an annex to the Law the Public Transport Plan of Galicia. We believe it was a serious mistake to reject the obligation of contributions and reports from agencies and institutions, as it was an error to draw up the preliminary drafts of the operation of the regular public transport service of general road-use travellers without the contributions of the sector, without the contributions of users and without the contributions of the institutions closest to the users. The publication of the Infrastructure and Housing Council in the Official Journal of May 30, 2017 of the Resolution of May 29, 2017 of the Directorate-General for Mobility, whereby public information is submitted for preliminary drafts of the operation of public services for the regular transport of passengers for general use by road, so that within ten days it can make allegations, only finds the Council's desire to prevent and reject all types of arrivals and contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, contributions and approaches are essential for a project like what we're talking about. Therefore, with the desire to participate, the Socialist Group will adopt, accept and support the motion made by En Marea. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u176	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, Mr. Sánchez, who, after the previous insinuation, begins by telling you that 112's computer technology has been assisted in an open, competitive and public, transparent process. You can search the web for it, if you like. On the contract platform you can, if you want, see the minutes of the recruitment table, see the technical reports and know why you've helped a company that is, by the way, one of the largest consultants in the world, with dozens of thousands of employees in the world. By the way, the best thing they would prefer is that we use the recruitment system used by the Tides in Santiago or in Coruña: all direct contracts or contracts without advertising and even in many cases newly created companies, not large consultants, but newly created companies, some of them in the Coruña, a few days before the adjudication, and without advertising or transparency; perhaps that's the model they want to transfer to the rest of Galicia. Little to teach in recruitment in the Coruña, in Santiago, little transparency, many Marea signatories in direct adjudications and, if you like, go to the website and look at what is a transparent and competitive process. [[Applause]] In any case, he spoke of many things, many things, and little of the motion. I, so you don't tell me the same as the previous motions, I'll talk about the motion. You've talked about a lot of generals about transport. I see that the other day in Commission 2nd the explanations the Director General gave you did not internalize them, but what is clear and objective is that in most rural areas of Galicia these new plans, this new plan, these new contracts will improve, duplicate or triple the number of stops in the lines and services that the Greeks will have, especially in rural areas. That's objective data. In any case, opposition gentlemen, there's a sentence to be complied with and there's a public service to be guaranteed, because what we're proposing here is that we leave in August. people without a job and leaving hundreds or thousands of workers without a job in August. That's where we're not going to be, because the main goal of the Council is to give that service and improve it as much as possible. Look, speaking of the motion, it is clear that up until now a participatory process has been made. That process that you demand is already done, it will continue to be done and will continue to be done intensively, because participation has been done and will continue to be done in the second part. There's a panel of experts that's working to make that coordination exist and it's working technically, because this is a technical job. The main market consultants were hired in these works, because they did an analysis of the reality of current transport. There were meetings with the municipalities, fourteen specific meetings were held by groups of municipalities, and after these meetings they were referred to these municipalities — 279 — a particular survey, and 169 of them responded to the survey, where they manifested their proposals, demands and improvements to the service. Within the follow-up meetings of the Metropolitan Transport Plan it also took advantage of at all meetings to discuss these issues with the municipalities. In addition, there were meetings with the transport associations, with the unions, with the main collectives of ANPA in Galicia and with the Fegamp, with them all met. Especially significant to me is the comment made by the president of the Fegamp, not close ideologically to the People's Party, who valued this plan especially in rural areas and valued the dialogueal position of the Government of Galicia, the People's Government. Users of the service were also consulted, street-based surveys were conducted and answered. So, I think it's a lot of proof that there was a broad dialogue, and it's going to continue with him in the second phase. Look, they're setting up a commission and we have to run this in August. We all know how long these committees have been, by past experience in this House. Besides, I think you don't just know that you don't have to be working on these lines that you put down in a couple of months, but we have to have approved this plan in the next summer. For all this, I think it is necessary to keep that dialogue, as we have seen. That's why we present the proposal not for law that we will debate tomorrow about how to systematize and incorporate not only the municipalities but also the deputies. But, frankly, asking for a suspension, as amended, for this contest, or asking, when it is already being done, for the public processing of ten days that extends to thirty, when afterward there is still a need to answer the allegations, to adjudicate contracts, etc., etc., it is simply to try to boycott or attempt to say that in August rural people do not have transport or that they want hundreds of transport workers — already finished, president — in August they are without work. I understand your motion and your amendment what you want is to try to paralyze a process that is having good acceptance, especially in the rural world, and that may be what you don't like. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u178	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the motion, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u179	His model of recruitment is not that of the Mareas, he would only be missing; hiss is that of Ignacio González, Punica, Lezo, Zeta, Montepío's overnight stay — a friend of Mr. President — that of Villar Mir, the one of the City of Culture, the one of Baltar, the one of Louzán or the one of Pikachu, who you were there, right? So, I don't need to teach you any lessons, you're already in history, you're already in history as a corrupt party; so I don't have to teach you any lessons. [[Applause]] That battle we've won, that battle we've won. You have the prestige you have, you are a party [...] I mean, I've devoted myself to battles that pose me some challenge; that's not; compare the tides with the People's Party, no, thank you. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, gentlemen, yes, gentlemen. That's right, you have a lot of merit: being from the People's Party and coming here to talk about the tides contracts has a merit, and not getting colored too, it must be a matter of pigmentation. Yes, sir. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't talk about the motion. Yes, I spoke, what happens is that you didn't understand, that's the difference; I hope you won't tell me I'm a machist. And look, just one question I want to explain to you too: the study commission is for the Public Transport Plan of Galicia, which doesn't have to be in August, it has to be in 2019, Mr. Fernández Prado, in 2019. So, man!, read well.... [[Murmurs.]] No, no, the Galician Public Transport Plan, for 2019. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If we don't know that, or the basics, Mr. Fernández Prado, please! It's twenty-one months since the entry into force later on the bidding process, etc. Yes, sir, a year, a year to do a commission. So don't make excuses that are not true; i.e. you can do a commission. Let the rural people come here, so satisfied is by this plan. Home! I know that rural people don't even know the plan. I don't know if she's satisfied or not, but she doesn't even know him. The only thing that came out is that we can run out of public transportation. That's what rural people know; knowing the plan, none. As much as you say there was a process of participation, there wasn't. It's just you guys didn't do your homework. You have suspended this because you can take 41 Members and be a bad government; that may be the case, it is obvious. And you didn't do what you had to do, you didn't plan this process. They started working only after the Supreme Court judgement and, therefore, if this is an opportunity, as you say, please the Supreme Court, which cancelled the concessions for harming them; we do them wrong again. Unfortunately, we missed an opportunity, because what we all agreed on is that it was an obsolete model, an obsolete system. We had the opportunity to take a leap forward, to improve in urban and rural areas, and you're going to waste it again, by continuing improvisation and because you feel more comfortable sitting in the offices talking to companies that open the process to society as a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u180	Thank you. On the amendment, will you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u181	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u182	And another question, Mr. Sánchez. I ask you to remove the expression "you're a party..." from this bench. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I ask you to remove the expression, when you went to this bench, "you are a party [...]". You know what I think of that, I ask you to withdraw it. You take it away? Don't you take it off? I'll call you in order. [[Murmurs.]] Regulation, regulation by hand, they know the regulation. If you don't remove it, I have to call it in order; so I call it in order. Yes, yes, that's the regulation. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, that's right, that's right, that's right. It was another slaughter. No, no. Don't compare. We'll close the subject. This question has been closed and we are going to vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u183	We vote for the motions. We voted for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the instructions given for carrying out the course 2016-2017 of the bachelor's assessment tests for access to the university, as well as the demands to be made to the central government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u184	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla Fernández. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with emergency care service 112. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u185	And finally, we voted for the Group of Parliament of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García. He said he accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group as an addendum. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. de En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the action to be taken in relation to the development of the Public Transport Plan and the new Transport Map of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u186	We suspended the session until four and a quarter, sixteen fifteen. Don't you agree? [[Murmurs.]] Seventy? I don't care. I don't have a problem, too, fifteen minutes... sixteen thirty? [[Murmurs.]] Sixteen-hundred. Four and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u187	We resumed the session. Opinion of the Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on the projects adopted at the first call of the Interreg V-A Spanish-Portugal (POCTEP) programme in the field of social policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u188	The Social Policy Adviser has the floor for the presentation of this meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come on my own request to report to this Parliament on the granting of new European funds for the development of four social projects, which we hope will allow us to complete four priorities of this council which we hope will move to the Greeks and to the Greeks. The framework for the call for funds is the Interreg V-A Spanish-Portugal 2014-2020 international cooperation programmes, which will finance 75% of this social policy fund mobilization of EUR 7.8 million. These are four initiatives: the Nutriage program, focused on improving the eating habits of older people; the Red May project, which seeks to generate a support network for older people, especially in rural areas, through technology and innovation; the Ledera project, a program aimed at catalyzing employment opportunities and new people's enterprise; and the Eurocity Keyes-Verín initiative. As for the first project, the Nutriage project, responds to the need to respond to a reality: the increase in the proportion of people over 65 years of age in relation to the population set, which is a common phenomenon, in addition, fortunately, to all developed countries. This population ageing is particularly significant in the European Union, and within it, in the area that affects us, in the northern Galicia region of Portugal, where at the beginning of 2015 there were more than 1.3 million people over 65 years old, representing 20.3% of the total population of the two territories. In Galicia, 24% of our entire census is people over 65 years of age, and in northern Portugal, 18.4%. Even so, as you well know, the population projections of Eurostat account for the population over 65 years in the European Union in more than 125 million in 2030 and about 150 million in 2050, of which more than two million will reside in the Euroregion GaliciaNorth of Portugal, which will also be one of the regions of the European Union with an older population. In 2050 most of the Greeks will be in the range between 50 and 79 years old. In the state as a whole, the percentage of population over 65 years old, currently 18.2 %, will rise to 24.9 % in 2029 and 38.7 % in 2064. Low birth and increased life expectancy are the two causes that cause this situation to us. This is a new situation that we are living in the last few years, with a tendency, of course, that will continue in the next few years, so there is an important goal as a country to which these programs respond, which is the challenge of living longer but also the challenge of living better. In addition, the proportion of older than 80 years, which is obviously the percentage of population with greater dependence, is increasing faster than any other age group, and therefore requires new health and social planning, a necessary socio-health collaboration. The larger population is a very vulnerable group of high nutritional risk. The high incidence of chronic diseases requiring medical treatment and rehabilitation, combined with physiological, psychological and social changes associated with older people, increases nutritional problems both by excess (obesity) and by default: nutritional deficiencies, poor eating habits and specific deficiencies of micronutrients. Malnutrition is associated with a higher risk of mortality, higher rates of infection, an increase in the number of falls and fractures, longer hospital stays, as well as an worsening of acute or chronic underlying diseases. Therefore, malnutrition, in addition to compromising the quality of life of the people concerned, is associated with a high economic and social cost, since all these issues, of course, involve an increase in the use of health and social resources that directly affect the sustainability of the system. Today, our diet is closer to the recommendations than the rest of the population, which doesn't mean that we don't have to affect, because our seniors are also more vulnerable. In this context, the purpose of this project is to ensure healthy aging through the evaluation, study and design of custom nutritional strategies. These will be based on traditional Atlantic food and the development of new food products that optimize the nutritional status of older people and prevent their functional and cognitive decline. What I was talking about before: to live longer, which is a reality of these times, but also to live better. This initiative will improve the habits of our seniors and also the menus of residences and day centers, as well as the lunch program at home, where Galicia is a pioneer, through which people over the age of sixty have limited personal autonomy, a balanced menu and adapted their needs. Currently, the Dinner at Home program is present in 148 Greek municipalities and has more than 1,000 users, which we want to increase with collaboration between the Galician Union and the municipalities in the coming years. Just like dinner at home, what you're looking for with the Nutriage project is to improve the quality of life of older people through nutrition. In addition, this programme will enable them to strengthen the sustainability and efficiency of the health care system, as well as to encourage their growth and the generation of new business opportunities for the agri-food industry. All of this through the creation of a multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral cross-border network of healthy aging, nutrition, diet and nutrition. This network will consist of researchers, nutritionists, clinicians of the pathologies in which food is crucial, care services, administrations, business associations, companies in the agri-food sector, as well as associations of older people. Its function will be to facilitate the standardization of the nutritional status assessment system for the larger population, providing an appropriate context for the study of relationships. between nutrition and state of health, something that is, in addition, fully current in all areas of our population. The operational targets are as follows. First, identify practices for the management and organization of food and nutrition in the homes of majors and day centers. Secondly, to know the ingest and eating habits of older people; the factors that influence it, its preferences and its level of satisfaction. Third, to know the risk and prevalence of malnutrition in older people. Fourthly, evaluate the possible relationships between food and metabolic pathologies at the largest. Fifthly, to evaluate the relationship between malnutrition and neurocognitive functions. Sixth, development of new foods and nutritional supplements with the agri-food industry. Seventh, design adapted nutritional intervention strategies that respond to nutritional deficiencies and imbalances in this population segment. Eighth place, develop mechanisms and protocols for nutritional assessments. As it is an ambitious project, we have the collaboration of the University and the Santiago de Compostela Institute of Health Research, the Galician Food Cluster and the Anfaco-Cecopesca Technology Center. And in the Northern Region of Portugal, with the Portuguese Catholic University of Porto, the Polytechnic Institute of Viana do Castelo, PortugalFoods and the houses of mercy of Porto and Viana do Castelo. The total investment in this project amounts to 3.5 million euros. In the work plan we will have a first phase, consistent in the study of the current situation, with an evaluation sample of 1,500 residents in major centers, day centers and lunches in the home dependents of the Autonomous Community. In the case of northern Portugal there will be 140 people. The goal, therefore, will be to make an intense diagnosis. The second phase will focus on the design of intervention strategies based on the results of the first action, with a double objective. Firstly, the design and development of food products for the elderly population. Secondly, the design of the nutritional intervention strategy in the homes of older people, day centers and users of Dinner at home. The number of larger people living in centres that will participate in this second phase will be 300 people in Galicia and 140 people in northern Portugal. And in a third phase of the project, intervention strategies will be put in place. To know how to increase the health well-being of the older people who participated in the chosen samples and develop the procedures and methodologies created for this effect for their implementation in the health habits of our older ones. In short, what we're looking for through this program is to ensure our seniors a healthier and more active life, taking into account a factor that is decisive in this goal. We're talking about the factor of food, the factor of a healthy and balanced diet. Eating well and eating better, which will result in the state of health and will not only increase life expectancy, but, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, live longer and live better. The second of the projects we share with the northern region of Portugal, for which we have just obtained the funds, is also focused on the larger population, in this case older than 55 years living in rural areas. The initiative is called Red May project, a network of support and community maintenance for older people in rural areas through technology and innovation. The goal is to promote research, innovation and improvement of social services in the Galicia–North of Portugal area, which share a specific characteristic: an important dispersion of our largest parishes, of many places of population, for which it is essential to obtain advantages through new technologies, through the services of proximity. The Galician Union will be the main partner, and will also participate as very important partners at the University of Vigo and the Municipal Chamber of Braga, administering a total budget of 1.1 million euros. The main interventions envisaged in this project are as follows. The start-up, piloting mode, of a mobile social services unit, consisting of a professional team that will move and install in 20 Galician localities, 20 rural localities, with a five-day stay in each of these localities. It's about getting closer to older people who live in rural municipalities social services of proximity. They all know perfectly well the basis of the concerted plan of the 1980s of social services, which was based on the decentralization of basic social work units: bringing social services to different neighborhoods, bringing social services to parishes. We are therefore taking one more step through the implementation of this programme, which also coincides with the very important increase — for the first time in many years — that made the Autonomous Community of Galicia of our agreed plan, with the grant for the municipalities of the hiring of more than 60 new professionals, which will allow the first entry door of social services to be clearly improved. Secondly, another theme on which we are working and that this program will allow us to implement will be the entry into operation of mobile services of alzeimer and other neurodegenerative dementias, integrated by specialized professionals of care of people affected by these diseases, which will provide therapeutic stimulation services. It is held in 10 localities, with five-day stays in each locality, with a proposed duration of three months. These mobile services will allow us to continue to another measure that we are developing, such as the progressive deployment of new therapeutic services for early care to those affected by alzeimer. We are launching 60 new services in the municipalities of Santiago de Compostela, The Road, Marín, Tui, Ourense and The Nogals, which complement those that have been operating in the municipalities of Ferrol, La Coruña, Lugo, Vigo and Pontevedra. The purpose of these measures is to extend the coverage network, making it especially fine-tuned to the attention of people who have the first symptoms of alzeimer, so that they can act as soon as possible and prevent and delay the progress of this disease. It is fully demonstrated that rapid diagnosis and early therapeutic action, as in many disabilities, will greatly favor the quality of life of the people who suffer it. Thirdly, this project will allow the creation of more friendly contours, in order to ensure the stay in the homes of our older people at optimal levels of autonomy. In this context of care in the family environment, it must be pointed out that it is a very important line of the Galician Councillor for Social Policy, strengthening the home support service in the municipalities. Look, this is a community that, as I said before, has an important population dispersion. The home help service allows us to reach each of the parishes in Galicia, each of the population cores that Galicia has. We are the autonomous community of all Spain which has a greater coverage of care in the home aid service. As you know, in the previous year we increased by 1 million hours, and right now I say that, through the Galician board grant to the municipalities, we pay 6 million hours of attention throughout Galicia. For this, a work of analysis and collaboration will be carried out with our partners and with the Municipal Chamber of Braga, to establish the lines of our field of work. Fourthly, another of the actions of this European project will focus on promoting the empowerment of older people by setting up mobile services for this purpose, which will provide them with information and tools to make them feel secure in their homes. Like our older people live longer, there's also the situation that many of our older people live alone in their homes. We will therefore create teams of professionals in different fields, in the field of social work, of legal assistance, health care... so that they provide advice, information and resolution of doubts also on basic issues of their daily life, such as bills of services such as water, light, medical prescriptions, banking services for which they sometimes have a special need for attention, which also fits with a line of action that we are starting at the Council, which is the empowerment of social volunteering, especially intergenerational volunteering. Fifthly, this will also allow us to make progress in the digital home, an activity designed to facilitate the autonomous life of older people around it. You will have a monitoring device activity using a sample of 50 older people, and you will select those best suited applications and technology services. A remote care centre will also be enabled, in this case in the field of passive security: smoke alarms, gas leaks, detection of inactivity in the homes of our seniors. So, online also with a work that we have to develop along this legislation, which is the greatest implementation of teleassistion, both basic teleassistion and advanced teleassistion. I just said this, that we have a lot of population cores and we have to be able to get technology to improve the attention we all pay. Ladies and gentlemen, this project of support for the elderly in rural areas, together with the Nutriage programme, of what I told them earlier, to improve food habits, will enable, surely, to increase the quality of life of our elders, a priority collective for all. With the granting of these European funds, and with the hands of the universities and the Northern Region of Portugal, we can continue to move forward on a strategic goal of the country: that Galicia be the best place to be greater. Two other initiatives, in this case in the field of youth. In the Leader project, the focus of the program is on integrating growth through cooperation between territories for greater business competition. What this project is looking for is to improve the conditions that are necessary and conducive to the emergence of new business initiatives. To achieve this, the focus will be on small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as on promoting entrepreneurship, in particular by promoting the economic use of new ideas and promoting the creation of new activities and businesses, also through business farmers. The Galician Board, through the Directorate-General for Youth, Participation and Volunteering, will pilot this programme together with the Galician-Europe Foundation, the Official Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Services and Navigation of Santiago de Compostela, the Galician Entrepreneurs Association – Assecega –, the Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth, the Portuguese National Federation of Youth Associations and the Inter-municipal Community of Ave. The budget for this program is 1.4 million euros. The goal is to promote cross-border economic development through the value-added work capacities that they have, and the empowerment of the enterprise of our youth. We count on this program to facilitate the adaptation and placement of 500 young people who are not currently in the labour market, and new unemployed through activities leading to the improvement of their active search for employment, their empowerment, the improvement of their employability and the value of their personal concerns. We will seek for young people more employment and training opportunities, through the development of personalized activities within the youth employment support network, which will allow the inclusion of 200 young people on a labour behalf of the territory. And we intend to create teams of boys and girls with high involvement in the search for employment through the launching of a business idea that results in the realization of a hundred new business initiatives in the territory. The main result that will be sought is the launching of new business initiatives, the consolidation of those recently initiated and the inclusion of new people through three phases. First, activity is growing. Creation of a transnational network of support for the employability of the youth population and the impulse of the entrepreneurship through the dynamization of our youth spaces. Particularly the young spaces located in Curtis, Girl, Pontedeume, Betanzos, Carballo, Chantata, Vilalba, Viveiro, Lalín, Vilagarcia and Ourense, as well as the cross-border offices located in Verín and Tui. Secondly, activity catalyzes. This activity aims to improve, enhance and boost the viability of youth projects and ideas through the following actions, which will take place in the young spaces previously marked and constituted as a network of entrepreneurial spaces. Third and last, activity takes place. It will be directed at those initiatives, ideas and businesses that want to start a new business line that counts with a degree of maturity sufficient. In conclusion, with this programme, what we are doing is betting on our youth, their talents, skills and entrepreneurial spirit within the competences of the Social Policy Council, mainly those of informal education. And the fourth and final project that will be financed by this new Interreg V Galicia-North of Portugal is that of the Eurocidade Chaves-Verín, with an budget of 1.7 million euros, with two objectives. The first is to encourage dialogue between the different agents of the territory and strengthen cross-border cooperation between them, cross-border cooperation between administrations, the private sector, universities and local population; and, secondly, to continue to strengthen the institutional capacity of the public authorities and stakeholders, as well as the efficiency of the public administration. So, what this is about is to continue this project, consolidating the actions that have been developed so far in the Eurocidade Keys-Verín, which has been distinguished on numerous occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, with these four projects co-financed by the European Union, we have the opportunity to move forward in two of the main country challenges facing Galicia. To continue to improve the quality of life of our elders, especially those with dependence and who reside in rural surroundings, and to offer young people new opportunities for personal development so that they can get a job more easily. These are two goals that can also be framed in one of the strategic lines that will undoubtedly mark this legislation: the demographic challenge. The largest population in Galicia is very numerous, and what we're looking for is that it has a state free of dependence, which will also be achieved through better habits and closer and better quality care. And also in the demographic field, we need to revitalize our new people, offering more opportunities for informal training, promoting entrepreneurship and self-employment as another possible alternative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u190	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u191	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. I have to admit that I continue to sin as naive. It turns out you're not here to come up with the risk situation, because practically the days of approval of the budgets had to expand the game because it's been short enough, which means you don't have a real X-ray of the country, because, if they had it, it's impossible that a nearly 60 million euro game would be cut by a few days before you approve the budget. That they had to make two changes in that game already because if it's too short, that means... I hope you don't come here after you're not going to waste more on Risga, that means the dramatic situation in which Galicia is in, when so many people need and welcome a help that is to survive, exclusively to survive. You don't come here to show up because of this situation, you don't come here to come up with the infamous waiting lists for the assessment for dependent people, you come here to explain some projects from the Interreg, from European funds. The first question I want to move you today, Mr Rey, is that it turns out that this European Union and the Spanish Government and the German Government, following the guidelines of both the European Union and the Spanish State to make theoretically the accounts, made the deficit the most holy, and it turns out that in this implementation of the European Union policies they made adjustments to bring us closer to 10 % of GDP — you are speaking at the state level — about EUR 100,000 million. The catalogue of cuts was very wide and indiscriminate in pensions, unemployment, wages, health, education, culture, dependency... and, in addition, reductions in public spending items, human resources, investment reduction and maintenance. Ten percent of the drop in social spending was a real demolition. for the welfare state. The first was that reduction in public weight and then transferred part of the payment of these services to citizens. And we have a scenario where these neoliberal policies, so energetically implemented by governments, have first made a continuous transfer of public services to private initiative. You, since returning to the Government, have virtually crippled infrastructures, and instead of creating a network of well-being in Galicia, a network of day centres, a network of residences, a network of children's schools, what you've done is virtually paralyze that situation and transfer through bonds, cheques; that is, instead of giving public services, you made a transfer to the private company and then this was followed by a contraction of budgets. So we have all this decision-making situation in the European Union for those who really make decisions, which is economic power, and it turns out that, after that infamous reduction of public budgets, of paralysing, of introducing colognes, for example, to our elders, because now you come here to present a series of projects, to beg the European Union for a series of projects, the strawberries that leave us the European Union; prevent us, on the one hand, and then allow us a number of questions. You here today present four projects, and I see that they follow that publicity speech, we're in another pool. The first part was that Galicia was the best place to be born and to live, and today comes with the second part, which is that Galicia is the best place to be bigger. I mean, we're moving forward in that propaganda policy. Look, Galicia is one of the state's oldest communities. I'm going with the first two projects: Nutriage and the support network for older people with technology. They're gonna let me tell you a bad joke that's been coming to my head while you've been making your exposure. A few years ago he was circling a joke about a visit that the pope had made to Africa. As the pope saw that the children had a rough belly, he asked those who were there: but these children why do they have such a rough belly? And they said to him, They do not eat, holy Father. And very diligently the pope put his hand on one and said, "There's more to eat! There's more to eat! And you come here today to do something like this; it's a bad joke, but you come here to do something similar. It turns out that we have an aging population, a low-income population, and a situation — as described earlier — of the lack of day centers, the lack of older homes; a situation where our seniors' pensions, despite being the lowest in the state, are a fundamental part of meeting the needs of many families. It turns out that Galicia is one of the oldest communities in the state, we have 665,897 people over 65, 237,000 over 80, that is, almost 25% of the population. And that's where we have fewer requests in relation to the population, which is strange, given that situation of greater aging. We have fewer beneficiaries in relation to the population, and fewer under the state average. It turns out that we have nearly 18,000 people with the right to dependency benefit and that they are not being implemented. I mean, we're talking about nearly 20,000 people in that limbo of dependence. We have to have between 2012 and 2016 cuts in state budgets for Galicia on dependency issues decreased by 151 million euros. We have to have in Galicia 304 euros less destined for dependence between 2012 and 2016, which has been gradually cutting, while life has not been decreasing but has been increasing. We need Galicia to be one of the oldest communities, where there's a lower per capita expenditure. That's the situation. And in view of that situation, you come to tell us that we have to make a plan for nutritional improvement, which I think is very good, but it's like talking about candy when you don't have to eat. Counselor, first we have to talk about the things to eat and after the candy. So, I see you, the whole government, follow this path, just as we could talk about the Health Council, when you reduce staff, reduce resources, reduce budget, dismantle primary care and then come with plans for technological support and innovation in rural Galicia. Great! And the first question I want to ask you, Counsellor, is: when this program is finished, by 2020, what will be left of this momentum to innovation and technology in rural areas? What part will you stay?, what infrastructure?, how many professional?, how much public network will you stay after this injection of public resources for these fantastic programs that you just explained to us now? I'd like you to tell me, at the end of the program, that you're going to stay firm beyond this money injection primarily for private companies. And then it turns out we have a situation of dramatic Galician youth. I'm not going to repeat to you the data on emigration, employment, unemployment, precarious employment, that our youth... we're in a situation where parents and grandparents and on-the-spot retirees treat their children or grandchildren in a situation that is tremendously more precarious, with worse wages and no guarantees. We have this situation, and you're still with the mantra of entrepreneurship as a solution and you're going to pick up a dispatch, pick up a series of computers and self-management, set up your own businesses. They intend to install the speech that we are in an individual problem; that people, having a lot of desire and a lot of ability, have the solution within reach of the hand. They know they're fooling people. I'd like you to have brought here the final results of all those people who get involved in entrepreneurship and then get fired -- we've asked them several times and never brought them back -- they're left with no resources and, above all, because of those entrepreneurship projects they started. It turns out that the problem of the situation of youth in Galicia is the dismantling of our productive sectors, the dismantling of the financial system; that the saving of Galicia, instead of investing in Galicia and to boost the economy of Galicia, because it turns out that it emigrations fruit from that financial dismantling, and it turns out that the solution is in the enterprise. We are faced with the dismantling of public services, the massive theft of rights to population, the reduction of wages, pensions, and it turns out that the solution goes back to the Leadership Plan, which is to tell our youth to self-manage, when by the Administration, by the Government of the United Nations, by the Government of the People's Party, no income is being taken from the country. We don't have a government worthy of such a name that stands in front of the country and makes the country produce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u193	...and generating jobs and wealth for our youth. Instead, instead of having a government to deal with and actually ask for fair funding and stand in front of certain measures, you come here again with the entrepreneurship mantra, telling our youth that what you have to do is self-management. Counsellor, I don't know if in your second speech you'll have anything else to tell us, but what you've told us so far is a good way to have us entertained, to sell that you get European subsidies, when the European Union, the Government of the State and the Council of Galicia are responsible for the situation, are responsible for having eliminated billions of euros destined for our country's development and intended...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u195	...to depend on and to the attention of our elders. And that, of course, is not solved with four little programs from an Interreg program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u197	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like, first of all, to make a special mention to all Members, the men of this House who debate with women on equal terms; that is, they do not use—it is a pity that Mrs Prado is not here—the doctrine of Mr. Arias Cañete, as I had done with my companion Elena Valenciano, to be afraid of being called a machista. [[Applause]] No, the people, the women we are in this House, we are elected Members; women but women, we are not ladies in a feudal court. [[Murmurs.]] Well, if you have made that clarification, allow me, Mr Counsellor, to remind you that the Counsellor you are conducting — to see if I am wrong — is four general addresses, a technical general secretariat, four territorial heads, four advisory technical councils, five technical commissions, a foundation, and, as an adscribed body, the Service Consortium. Despite the fact that the social area, the area at the global level — not just its council — has suffered a EUR 500 million cut since 2009 in respect of 2009, is managing the third highest budget of the entire German Government. In particular, you depend on family policy, children, demographics, social inclusion, older and disabled people, youth, participation and volunteering. Given this, I don't even know how to qualify, my group doesn't know how to qualify as the first appearance you have in this House, after exposing the general lines of your department, either to talk about a series of projects, of microprojects, which account for exactly 0.2% of your overall budget advice. Because, Counsellor, it is not four million euros; what is going to manage directly the Galician Union of these projects — and it comes to the POCTEP website, which can be consulted by all the honourable Members, and those who are seeing us right now — it is 1.7 million euros. [[Applause]] That's what the management responsibility of the Galician Union will be for. It is therefore that we consider this appearance useless, unnecessary and completely lacking ambition. Today the most interesting thing you have said here is to give good afternoons to Members and Members of this House. The rest of the appearance can be summed up in a blah, blah, blah, blah. I'd be grateful if the spook hadn't been capitalised because there are very important issues in this autonomous community that are waiting for a social policy advisor to respond, face-to-face and solve. [[Murmurs.]] You come here talking about demography and, causality or not, you just solved the call for squares in public childhood schools. There are more than 30 percent of families who requested a square that remained outside. There are, ladies and gentlemen, 3,000 families who don't know where their children will be left when, at best, they're going to work; or, at worst, they have to go to work. That's a demographic problem, that's one of the causes -- your policies -- that this country -- and quoting you -- is not a country to have children, and that's not what's happening. Lack of forecast? No, everything was planned. The fact is that in their budgets there are 7 million euros for, directly or indirectly, diverting money to private children's schools. You call it Bono Concilia; we, from the Socialist Group, prefer to call it "Good Privy", since that money -- the money you're going to use to cure an asset you've created -- is to pay private schools. That's because not to mention the help to those schools that were going to be done in industrial politics, European funds, of which you might have come to talk about, more than 80 percent without running; they made a real fuss. I mean, Counselor, do you have anything to say about this? Don't you think it's a reason enough to come to this House to be generating or sinking into a situation that generates more class inequality and gender inequality? Don't you think it's a reason or something important enough? And with regard to the risk — which has already been said here and which we have said at the beginning of the legislation — there is not enough money, the budget that is affecting the Council of Galicia. And they made deaf ears. We still have a number of people who are six points below the state average who perceive the risk. And you're wrong that you're wrong, and you've had to renew twice and expand that credit available for the Risk. And why? Because you, for the issues of poverty and social exclusion, are like the bad students at an exam, leave everything for the last day; that's the way the People's Party acts. Don't you think this situation would be nice if I came here to account, explain here, and talk about what happens with the risk budget? And then you come here talking about older people, that older people need to learn to eat, that older people need to learn to read an invoice. And, of course, yes, Counselor, but before that, it's not that older people don't eat because they don't know, it's because they don't have to eat, and it's not that older people don't pay bills because they don't know how to interpret them, it's because they don't have to pay them. And that, Counsellor, is the consequence of the policies that you practice, that is the consequence that we have the lowest average pensions in all of Spain, that is the consequence that your department, the department you're piloting right now, is spending on average EUR 400 less than in 2009, in an autonomous community, as you well remembered, with a very serious aging problem, with two provinces like Ourense and Place that are almost at the head of Europe in aging, and you don't care. The seniors are not a priority, and today you've shown it again in this House. And if we talk about older people, we can also talk about disability and architectural barriers that suffer to a large extent as well, and we can talk about a law that you put into effect, that you voted alone in this House because you had no kind of budget and then you counted on the abstention of the entire opposition because it was a law that was born for failure; a law that promised that before December 4 this year the architectural barriers would be eliminated. There is no development of that law today nor is it being complied with. Tell me, Counsellor, why does he consider the people's worth of complaints that most of the complaints she receives are through oppression — and I read textually — "of the rights of persons with disabilities and the lack of accessibility." Aren't the disabled, the disabled, a sufficiently important reason, and the architectural barriers that are in their day-to-day lives, how to come here to this House to explain why this situation is and why it is delaying the entry into force of this law? And if we talk about youth, you never give the data because they shake every time you see them, and so do we, but we do it with responsibility. For every degree attracted by a job, two are marching, Counselor, and they don't go because they like it — we always tell them — they don't go on the adventure, they don't leave because they want to start; they leave tired, bored of having jobs that they don't give them to be emancipated, Counselor. There are one-third of the young men and women between 30 and 34 years of age in Galicia who are still living in the family home, as a result, Counselor, of their policies. What are you guys doing? So you come here to talk about projects for youth when you have reduced the budget by 28% over the year 2009 in this matter. And you can talk about promoting the young spaces wherever you want; I can tell you about Ourense and how you have sent or how your government has sent there to Mr. Feijó's cousin to establish an iron control, to deny freedom to the associations that are there, and how that reduced freedom is, yes, Counselor, that reduced freedom which was the Youth House, which you now call Youth Space, which is in danger of extinction because of their guilt, no less. [[Applause]] And the worst thing is that it comes up with something that you can't assume, because if you look at and review this call, it turns out that the Extremadura Board takes 3 million euros more than POCTEP than the Galician Union as a whole; a border, that of Extremeura, which has no third of the economic and social capacities that has the border with Galicia. So you can't come up with flowers, you can't pretend, you can't hang any medals for these projects, because, I repeat, they represent 0.2%, they're going up the credit you're going to have to manage the Galician Union 1.7 million euros. Today you have two interventions left, take advantage of them to respond to the concerns of the Greeks and the Greeks, not to speak of the ordinary, which is neither important nor new. In short, change the reason why you came here today, which is not, Counselor, no less than trying to take your hair from the opposition, that you have smoke curtains on your nefarious management. The only one who is demanding the Socialist Party today and who has been complaining since the beginning of the legislation is a high-profile Social Policy Council. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u199	Good afternoon. Counsellor, I am the truth that if I thank you for this attendance, I am grateful that you have brought these pilot projects here, which are nothing but crumbs about the global budget of the Union, European Union crumbs, as you have already pointed out, and I thank you sincerely, seriously, for your presentation was very illustrative, very illustrative of the political and ideological lines of the People's Party. I wrote down here. He spoke often of business and very little of well-being; in this can be summed up much of his intervention. I, like my previous comrades, when we saw in the summons an appearance of you, for the first thing that came to mind was to say: come up with the tremendous data of having to modify the risk game shortly after you approved the budget, for these tremendous data that they do to us is to think that the Board not only has bad planning but also despises — as we have already told you many times — the very serious social data that our country has; as we thought it might have appeared by these waiting lists in the infant schools or, as it has already been pointed out, by the lists of waiting for the valuation of dependency or the labor disputes of its advisor. But finally, bring these projects here. We wonder if the motivation behind his appearance is that on June 29 in Madrid, this seminar of projects approved under this first POCTEP call is going to take place; we find no other reason. But finally, since you brought them here, we're going to look at them as I exposed them, because there wasn't any documentation attached to this appearance either. And this programme, the Interreg V-A, is funded by the ERDF funds, whose theoretical objective is to strengthen — it has read — "the socio-economic cohesion within the European Union, correcting imbalances between its regions". What's going on is that with this kind of project, with crumbs, it doesn't change the Socio-economic balance of the Euro-region of Portugal with regard to the European Union, with isolated projects, with projects, in addition, of so little silence; with pilot projects, in the end, which has been presented, it is impossible to contribute to correct regional imbalances. We can see the data of the evolution of the euro region's per capita gross domestic product, and we see, in addition, as already below the European average in 2006, for example, at the level of 100, Galicia is in 87 and northern Portugal, 65; in 2015, Galicia, 79 and Portugal, 65. I mean, they're stuck; it's more, in our country it's seen that the crisis has caused a great fall in gross domestic product per capita and it's particularly a lack of convergence with the European Union. So instead of saying that the causes of aging — I think you said — were low birth and high rate of aging — it's obvious — you have to say that the causes of aging may have something to do with this lack of convergence and the lack of country project, which causes this situation. So in the analysis of the projects that bring us, we also see that there is a lack of analysis of the real causes of stagnation in our country. These are projects that go on the line of this neo-language of healthy aging but that don't affect us... these programs look good in terms of the nutrition of older people, but they notice the main problem, which has already been pointed out, that they cover decent pensions — we are the second lowest in the state — and they look at older women; above all we have to take into account that eight out of ten pensioners per widow are under the poverty line. That poverty situation in older people who have already been pointed out should have motivated at least one line in the presentation of these projects, such as Nutriage, this project to ensure that older people have better nutrition, appropriate to nutritional recommendations. All right, but what we need to guarantee from the public sector is that there is a public management of the food supply of these care centers in these centres. There was a tremendous business niche there, and we believe these programs, so you've explained, go in the same direction. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure the public management of the feeding of care centres and, on the other, to the older people who live alone, because powerful municipal programs to encourage nutrition. And, by the way, with regard to this problem of the elderly, who live alone, who die on their own many occasions, unfortunately, in our country, it is certainly a problem of some 170,900 homes inhabited by a single older person in 2016. What is needed is to have a service care and coordination protocol that the Board must develop. And then, as far as Red May -- I think it's called that -- explained that it would be about encouraging people living in rural, older people to be better cared for. It is that it is solved by strengthening Community social services, rather than removing competences from these municipalities and removing their ability to make social policies, because the reality of Community social services — we have told you, I do not know how many times — is the saturation of staff, the lack of capacity to make policies. On many yes, in many staff is saturated and they don't have enough resources to ensure it's a network, as you said, of first contact that has a level of excellence and so what you do is unsaturate the rest of the network, concentrate the resources there. Of course, we agree with the decentralization of these services, but it seems like a joke that is a mobile unit of social services in 20 localities, five days in each locality. It is about strengthening the system of Community social services. Finally, as far as the Leader program is concerned, we came back again — the fellows of the Block and the PSOE also told the mantra of entrepreneurship, with a youth who has a problem of brutal work precariously. And we talk again about entrepreneurship with an budget that will only guarantee that, perhaps, a person can define some project that is successful. Finally, it seems to us that we are always diving in these new concepts that are not at the root of the problem, which is, as you have already been pointed out, the European Union, which sets some draconian conditions so that our country does not develop and now gives us a series of certain pilot programs that can, at best, alleviate the situation of some people in the county. And as for aging and policies — as sometimes spoken of — of birth, it has also recently joined — I believe that here, in Santiago, even you have presided over — the Macroregion of the regions of south-western Europe, and what they have sought is also — this sense of these projects, in this language — to define policies that have deepened to prevent this ageing of the population and have fixed them in conciliation policies and in the improvement of the quality of life of the older people in rural areas. And there are these projects, theoretically, of socio-health innovation to address aging, which could also come into this kind of project. But, of course, let's not go back to the root of the problem, to that demographic challenge that you always refer to. So you miss the fundamental foot, which is having a job, you don't have to look at places like Sweden, where there's a great network of reconciliation policies, where there's real support for families, but where there's also a rate of activity in women like men and where you go to the concrete root of gender inequality to enable women to have the children and daughters we want to have. I link this to what neither of these projects see a gender perspective, when in Galicia older people, women, have greater problems — as in the rest of their age — than men. So we don't analyze that gender perspective either. We are talking about the euro region, about cooperation projects, and we see that neither the Union has a stake in the euro region, as you have pointed out, for example, the Atlantic axis, many times. We're a population of 7 million inhabitants, with a common culture and history, which needs to be re-founded, and we need real vertebration with infrastructures. So what it takes, more than these crumbs, are projects that are going to have the Atlantic Axis power and that we have a development project that makes it possible for us to live here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u200	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. It seems not to the opposition groups that Galicia now has four European projects amounting to EUR 7.8 million and which are intended not only for older people, but also for young people and girls to find a job. It seems that the opposition groups do not care if a Social Policy Adviser comes to this Parliament to realise what Galicia can now access through cooperation with the European Union to further improve the quality of life of older people, especially older people with some kind of dependence and who live in rural areas. It seems that opposition groups don't care that there are programs that offer young people new employment opportunities. For us it is neither unnecessary nor minor importance to the presence of the councillor; for us what was an exciting capital is that the opposition considers that this appearance is neither important nor useful, because of course it will not be important or useful for opposition groups, but it is important and useful for older people in Galicia, for dependent people and for young people who want to find a job. For them it is important that the counsellor's appearance. [[Applause]] Because look, we're talking about 7.8 million euros, we're talking about programmes co-financed by the European Union, but we're talking about these 7.8 million euros going to add up to the EUR 221 million with which the Galician Board counts on budgets to carry out actions to care for older people; we're talking about supporting the councils for home help service; we're talking about currently spending over 60 million euros on supporting the municipalities to provide home help service; we're talking about 1,700 new seniors in the home aid service; we're talking about 18,200 people who can now use the home support service; we're talking about the fact that TV assistance and telephone support to Junta is going to EUR 1.8 million, of which are benefiting 6,000 older people in Galicia. But, of course, for you, this isn't important, this appearance is useless. By the way, shortly after the debate on the budgets of the Social Policy Council, the adviser was in this Parliament explaining the general lines of his advice, where he explained the situation of all the programmes and all the areas of his advice and where you asked the questions you thought appropriate. And it turns out that now, which comes to talk about something that we believe the Council has to report to the House, they say it's a spook and that it shouldn't come to this House. We're talking about transfers to the municipalities for the construction of equipment for the promotion of personal autonomy, we're talking about the budgets of the Union, of the 221 million euros to increase public squares in residences and day centres; we're talking about budgets to increase books for dependency attention, which this year will be 1,700 new books and for which more than 60 million euros will be invested. But, of course, it turns out that the model of Galician Union is not the right social model for the Greeks and for the Greeks. It turns out that the right model for the Greeks and for the galleys of social services is the right model you're saying, which is yours. Well, while the Galician Union has access to a European grant of 7.8 million euros, the Santiago de Compostela Council loses a European grant of 6.2 million euros to fight poverty and social exclusion in Santiago de Compostela. This isn't important, ladies. The European grant and begging for crumbs to the European Union for the Greeks and the people of Compostela is not important. By the way, why would you lose this grant? Why, of the 6,2 million euros sent by the Council in its report to apply for the grant, was it intended to allocate 4 million to staff costs, to services and external experts, to travel expenses, to housing expenses? This is your social model. But we can keep talking. While Junta increases the budget for the Home Help Program to EUR 60 million, the Santiago de Compostela Council waives 5,700 hours a month financed by the Galician Board to care for the largest Compostela in its homes. Why? Why do you have 123 people pending in the waiting list to receive those home help services? Why can the Town Hall, which could provide this home aid to more than 135 people, renounce this Galician board grant? Why do you stop using public resources when there are people waiting for this help? Won't this be smart, Mrs. Prado? Won't this be the spook, not the counsellor's appearance? [[Applause]] Look, while the Galician Union is betting for increasing the support to social institutions that are working with people who need it most — 7.6 million euros — what do you do? They reduce aid to social entities, they don't want to work with social entities. While the Galician Union guarantees that all the dining rooms, all the hostels and all the reception centres have grants amounting to EUR 2.3 million, you cut municipal aid to social entities fighting poverty and social exclusion by one third. You cut the aid to the food bank, to the Home Project or to the Compostela hostel for an amount of almost 50,000 euros. While the Galician Union spends EUR 107 million to care for people at risk of social exclusion, you again cut the budget of that famous social income. In the presentation of social income you in this Parliament criticized Risga in countless occasions, and that the right model to care for people who needed it was their social income. They launched it in the Town Hall of Coruña and said they were going to reach a thousand people, with an budget of 2.1 million euros. Do you know how many people receive social income from the Atlantic Sea? A person is collecting at this time from the Town Hall of the Crown—a person!—the social income. And of the 2.1 million euros in the budget, what happened to the budget? There's no such budget for social income anymore. What was most of that budget used for? To pay debts or to buy bicycles from the municipal bike service. That's what you care about social inclusion in Galicia and the Town Hall of the Crown. [[Applause]] While Galician Union increased its risk budget to EUR 57.5 million, Vigo's socialist mayor took up to seven months — seven months! — to process Risga's requests. And a member of the People's Party does not say so, in the report just mentioned, the socialist spokesman, that the Vigo Council takes seven months to process the Risga files; and he comes here to tell the Galician Council, that he has just expanded the risk budget, that he has to continue to expand because there are people who need it. Indeed, ma'am, there are people who need it; therefore, socialists, you speak to the mayor of Vigo and stop delaying the processing of Risga's applications. Because, look, in Vigo there are more than 63,000 people at risk of social exclusion — more than 63,000 people! — and it turns out that the Vigo Council takes almost seven months to send the file to the Galician Council so that these people can perceive a Risk. [[Applause]] And the worrying conclusion of the report by the people's valet, of what the socialist spokesman was talking about, is that the situation of the Vigo Council creates a sense of deprotection and anguish of people in extreme need. Therefore, when Mrs. Noela says that the People's Party does the bad students, who leave everything for the last day, please tell her that you have to retrieve the mayor of Vigo the cordura and process the files of the Vigo Greeks who are waiting to collect that Risga. Therefore, while the Galician Union allocates EUR 643.5 million to social policies, the Pontevedra BNG is in the ranking of officially poor municipalities in social services... — of course, it is not interested to listen to this information. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Only EUR 35.75 per inhabitant. Is this a fair funding, Mrs. Prado? Is this the model of social policy that you want me to carry out in the Union of Galicia? Yeah, look, no. Do you remember that Mrs Pontón, in the budget debate, criticized the President of the Union, Mr Feijóo, for the social services budgets, when are the highest budgets in the history of our community? He even came to tell her that he had no heart, that he had a heart of stone. Well, look, today we pay tribute to the BNG and the Pontevedra Town Hall because you have just received the Stone Heart Prize for being a soulless council, insensitive to the suffering of your most needy neighbours, granted by the State Association of Directors and Social Services Managers. Of course, we're not going to share his model. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u202	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica, Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, I'm surprised at some of the things I've heard here, because I've seen to come up, at my own request, to talk about subjects I think very important to all the Greeks. The truth is, it's amazing that instead of talking about strategic projects in the country, we're making a general appearance at the Council. I have no problem in answering point-by-point to the specific issues of the Council, which would practically be like a general appearance, what happens is that, really, this Parliament — I believe it, eh! — must not, frankly, always be based on a general conditioner, in the overall performance of a councillor, having an opportunity with these subjects we are talking about — these four projects — to talk about specific topics that affect many Greeks in their present and, above all, in their future. The four data, which are the basis of a general policy, I think they are frankly a deterioration of what has to be the future of quality social services for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Another reflection, which I also think I should do to them, is: what would happen if we lost the European projects that we presented to ourselves? Well, that would be a very important issue in the country, and come up with interpellations and come up with questions to lose them. [[Murmurs.]] The least I can do is come here to explain and share with Members what we are going to do with these projects. It would also be interesting to have some suggestions, though some of them could get from their interventions. Look, Mrs. Prado, we'll talk about the Risk tomorrow. I don't refuse to talk about the Risk; sometimes we want to talk about the Risk, specifically tomorrow. In that mantra of paralysis and cuts, you tell me about squares of day centers and squares of public childhood schools. Look, it's just that you were in government in 2009. I'm going to give you that data with the realization you're asking me for. In 2009 there were 975 public squares in day centers in Galicia — 975 — some more than eight years later we have 2,637 public squares in day centers. An increase of 170 percent, Mrs. Prado. And then you tell me about... well, as you see, data that has nothing to do with the programs, but, I say, I have no problem with every time I come to make my own request, if you talk about each of the topics at the Council. In children's schools, in 2009, 12,681 public-funded squares; in 2017, 22,316 squares; an increase of 75%, and I'm telling you, in addition, that there are children's schools that are currently under construction and there are day centers that are currently under construction to join the public network, managed by the Consortium. Look, Mrs. Prado, I'm going to give you another data, since you're talking to me so much about the bigger ones: these projects, which are exactly an important part for the bigger ones... almost seems to be disregarding our older ones because we don't care about them. Now, look, the year 2009 was there too, and just as I gave you the data from day centers and childhood schools, I'm going to give you the data of higher attention to the Dependency Act in 2009, when this board was in hand — I suppose — of the BNG: 14,000, with a 36% payout ratio; in 2017, 48,700, with a 73% payout ratio. It's not to hang up any medals, there's a lot to do, but, well, it's not to get lessons that these kinds of projects, which are innovative projects, important projects, are useless. Look, Mrs Blanco, with regard also to the general state of affairs of the Social Policy Council, I will give you a data: you have suffered a cut — tell me — the Social Policy Council of 500 million euros. Look, we are currently administering in the Social Policy Council the highest budget of Galician autonomy. We'll have some social engagement! Not only have we dedicated ourselves to social policy — as others do, by the way — but we have invested more public resources in social policy than ever before. Look, saying that the Bono Concilia is a privatization, in the end... by the way, we'll have the opportunity tomorrow to talk about the Bono Concilia. That's why I tell them... If we can talk about what they want, I don't have any problems. Even the president told me that we government members had no time limit, but it's true that we came to talk about what we were talking about. Look, I just gave your partner the public squares in children's schools; they've increased by 75 percent. You should know that we're doing children's schools not Galician municipalities that let us make children's schools. For example, in her we're building a new childhood school, which will of course be a public child school, because so much about privatization, privatization, privatization, is that the little schools we're doing are all public. Then, Mrs. Blanco, tell me about the Risga. I told you, tomorrow we'll have a chance to talk about the Risk. It seems I had to come here to say that the risk budget increases. It's just that I'd have to come over here if we didn't have public funds to meet Risga. We've transferred funds because at the meeting of the budgets they'll remember I said we wouldn't agree that no Welshman who needed it was waiting for the Risk. [[Applause]] Tomorrow I will reply, Mrs. Blanco, to this, and I hope you will not be ashamed of some socialists who delay the processing of Galician social integration income. And another thing, it tells me about Extreme. You told me about Extreme. I've never, ever, spoken of other autonomous communities because we have enough to talk about our own, but, as you told me about Extreme, I'm going to tell you some interesting ratios of Extreme: ratio of home support in Extreme, 2.71% older who have home help; ratio of home help in Galicia, 30.30% — 2.71% in Extreme and 30.30% in Galicia. Day centers, which just got out too, attention ratio in Extreme, 6.43%; attention ratio in Galicia, 12.40%, double. So, I say, I don't come here to speak to other autonomous communities. It is that if we speak of other autonomous communities in social care, in attention to our older ones, in attention to our children, we will see that we almost always have better rates of attention than the rest of Spain, because we have a good social policy. But we don't talk about other communities, as you do, because we also know that there's a lot left to do here, and we owe it to our children, and we owe it to our elders. [[Applause]] Mrs. Vázquez Verao, I thank you because the only references I had from the programs were your intervention, as regards the public management of food, schools, day centres, in the management of the dining room at home... we note that there is a need to monitor those in private hands, we note that performance protocols are essential. I don't agree with the dismantling of social services. You can tell me about Europe, about Europe, about Spain, I'm going to give you the autonomic data from my department. Since the birth of the Social Policy Council, the concerted plan for municipal social services has increased by 20 percent; therefore, of a cut-off by this board, nothing at all. And the order financing the social inclusion funds of Galician municipalities did not increase by 10 %, by 20 % or by 30 %, tripled. So make it clear that this social councillor is totally committed to collaboration with the municipalities. I do not agree, of course, with you on the part of entrepreneurship, on the part of the leader. Clearly, there are important differences. I don't agree with you either, but I believe that divergence also helps us, that the fundamental problem or the only problem of demography is the problem of employment. We can review the historical data over the past few years and it will be found that with far more important economic growth rates and with much higher employment rates we even had birth rates below what we have right now. And so far, the general policy review of the Council, but I come here to obtain European funds, with all humility, because many mayors have also appeared who have obtained European funds and, therefore, I believe that the Council of Galicia may also appear, because it is a real challenge to pay attention to our largest population. And it's a challenge, too, because these programs allow us something very important. Sometimes every day of everything we've been talking about right now doesn't allow us to see the present and the future of how to design what it said before, social services from a model of innovation, from a model of proximity, from a model of higher quality. These programs are not only a very important public fund injection, but they allow us to work with real experts to help us improve our policies. So I think we should also thank the collaboration in these programs at the University of Santiago, the University of Vigo, the University of Porto, the Cluster of Food in Galicia, the Anfaco-Cecopesca Technology Center, the Polytechnic Institute of Viana do Castelo, because they are the ones that will actually allow us to innovate in our social care from now to the future, in a community, I say, that, fortunately, they have many larger ones and where their older ones have more longevity than in other Spanish communities: 82 years of average life expectancy in Spain; in Galicia, 86. We want our elders to be more active and we want our elders to be more independent, so this Nutriage program. I really believe that eating habits are very important at all stages of life, but also very especially, so I said before, in the field of our older people. It's a program that goes, precisely, to control those eating habits to draw important conclusions in 1,500 users of our public services in senior homes, in day centers, in the lunch program at home, and I think it will contribute to a better ageing of our population. The second project, the Red May initiative, is also an initiative that, as I said before, will enable us to bring social services closer to the rural areas of Galicia. They're mobile units of social services. So they were born, as I said before, the basic units of social work that we have in the municipalities, which in many cases is not one but they are in the parishes, they are in the neighborhoods. These units will also allow us to experiment through mobile services for alzheimer, which is a disease that is increasing as a result of the increase in quality of life; they will also allow us to improve counseling and information to our elders on issues that are sometimes a real problem for them, such as procedures before the Administration, procedures before water providers, electricity supply services, banking services, etc.; will allow us to move forward in the digital home project. These really seem to me to be important challenges for a community. Like the Ledera project, a project that we will try not to exclude other employment projects, other wealth generation projects, but it is a project from informal education and from the support we can give to our young people in our centers in Curtis, Girl, Pontedeme, Betanzos, Carballo, Chantada, Vilalba, Viveiro, Lalín, Vilagaría and Ourense. The truth is, we have a lot to do with youth unemployment. There's also a reality in a context of ever low growth. Youth unemployment is currently falling by 5 % in the last year. Of course we have to keep working on it, but I don't think it's to despise any of the lines of action that we can draw from the public. And we also want to continue with the Key-Verin Eurocity project, which is dynamizing a territory that has had some distinction on the part of Europe. I also want to inform you that yesterday we even welcomed in Galicia the work meeting of Macroregion south-west of Europe, Resoe, attended by representatives of autonomous communities of Asturias, Cantabria, Castela-León and the central and northern regions of Portugal, to address the development of new European projects. If these participants were here today at yesterday's meeting, we would think that we were almost wasting our time, after many hours of work, with the interdisciplinary teams that were trained to obtain new funds in the short term, especially in the new programming of European funds from 2020 onwards. The representatives of all these territories are united, we are truly united, despite the political differences that may exist. We are united to improve the quality of life of our inhabitants with regard to our children and our elders. In this sense, I want to tell you that in the coming weeks a strategic plan will be presented that will enable you to work to respond to these common challenges among all these regions based on three axes of action: the first, the improvement of the quality of life of our largest ones; the second, the promotion of policies that have to do with reconciliation in rural areas; and the third, the socio-health innovation applied to the well-being of the population. This global document will be presented at the end of this June in Castela-León and will focus collaborative work by 2020 and after 2020. We have to prepare ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, for these new times, and that's why the demographic challenge has a lot to do with the care of the smaller ones and the care of the older ones. We want, as you have repeated, to live longer and to live better in Galicia as well. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u204	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u205	It is clear how serious your group takes you, Counselor. Mrs. Marta Rodríguez Arias read us here the paper of how little we cared about her appearance, and she devoted exactly to the subject of her appearance I think three seconds, the time she took to say 7 million, and then she spent enthusiasticly on the municipal campaign. [[Applause]] Because, of course, we're campaigning the municipalities, and then it's passed directly to the municipal campaigns. That's what I'm saying -- it's your group -- as soon as you think you should tell him something about respect for him a little bit. He'd like it or he wouldn't like what I told him, but I talked about his projects, I talked about his grown-up and his youth. [[Applause]] So it's obvious that all the efforts of the People's Party go to this municipal campaign. The respect you have for this Parliament every day goes a little less, but then they come to teach enthusiastically. And look at one thing, Mrs. Marta Rodríguez, I stand with the heart of the city government of Pontevedra and not with the heartless Government of the People's Party. So of course, so of course! [[Applause]] Well, Counsellor, you're here to talk about a model of social services based... and I'm telling you, what would you think of a model of social services based on public service and not business? What would you think of a model of social services based on creating a public network, with public infrastructure, with public resources, with sufficient staff and well equipped throughout the territory, that scattered territory, adapted to Galicia's needs? Well, BNG would look great. And since you've finished your intervention by talking about that bet on socio-health innovation, when you have a moment, ask the health counsellor, for example, about health trucks. I say it because they go a little along the way of their model, to take every five days to one place to care for the older ones, then another five days to another... Ask him, which was also a European grant, and how it seems that money in the European Union is nobody's! We can avoid developing the country by decision of the European Union, but then they send us fantastic subsidies for things already seen as useful to them. To me, of course, you haven't answered what I asked you about after 2020 and after this 2016-2020 project. That will remain of real, fixed staff, consolidated public personnel, that will remain after that investment. In fact, you'll also have to tell those who take the program portal to update it, because there's no 7 million euros there. I say it because they don't show up. I've got the data here too, I haven't given it to you anymore, but it's certainly not enough for the 2 million data that's hanging there. But if for you enthusiastically today's headline is going to have 7 million more for welfare policies and to look after our boys, because we're not gonna ruin the headline here today by saying they don't show up on the portal. We're not gonna ruin it. So, I have a few questions, but so. Look, the first one is when you're going to take the dramatic situation of Galicia seriously? When are you going to take it seriously? And by taking it seriously, what I'm telling you is when they're going to banish and present some alternatives in this Parliament to change the course, to get Galicia to produce, to get Galicia to generate wealth, and that really our young people, instead of a Leadership program, can live and work decently on the earth by developing projects linked to our reality, linked to the sea, linked to the land, linked to the naval, linked to real innovation. When are they going to restart and present some project that really goes in the direction of changing course? When will they stand in front of the looting of the state? And why would I tell you this? Look, we're talking about European funds, are we telling you that the average of the European funds received by Galicia are around 1 % of GDP, and that the European funds received by regions of Portugal, with similar situations to Galicia, are around 2.5 %? In view of this, you, as a member of the Government, should reflect and say, what's going on here? Does this have anything to do with European funds coming through the state, and that state decides how much it sends and how much it decides to stay?, does it decide whether money comes to Galicia or does T-4, for example? I say for reflection, eh! I leave it here for reflection. Today in the media, the truth is, they gave us joy. You see, you've got a little energy out of the German Government and you don't like the calculation you're doing, because they've been so splendid with the deficit and it turns out that Montoro tells you that they have to be more. Maybe it's a small element to feel positive and see that we have a government. [[Applause]] So, I am using it, Mr Rey, to ask and make the accounts, to see how much of European funds Galicia receives and how many receive, for example, areas of Portugal. I don't want to compare it with other parts, but with Portugal, which we are next to and which we make cross-border plans. Who's left with that part that would have to come to Galicia? And after they do the math, it would be good if they demanded that they at least give us what we need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u207	In short, Counselor, you come on your own request to talk about what you want, because we, even though we ask you to come, do not come. So, when he comes, we also have to ask him about these things of paralyzing the Dependency Act, privatization of major centers, day centers, drug coops, exclusion of financing pharmaceutical products, coops on dependency, coops on disability, increased coops, paralysed dependency law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u209	Just a little thing. Sorry, Mr. President, just a little thing. To make the accounts as well, I tell you that the Dependency Act came into operation in 2008, the Bipartite ended in March 2009, a year of application of the Dependency Law — I say it to make the accounts — and nine years later, that data you gave. I'm saying it 'cause I think you forgot that little data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u211	Thank you very much, President. Until a few minutes ago in the Socialist Group we had doubts why you appeared today, Counselor. Now we know that it was to give an opportunity to a member of the People's Party to make the new modality of opposition. So far it has been opposition to the past, from now on it is opposition to distance. It can be seen that the People's Party has no qualified voices in the various municipalities of Galicia where it does not rule to make that opposition and have to come here the parliamentarians of its group to do the work they don't do. [[Applause]] Anyway, in that journey you did for municipal life, the truth is that Mrs. Rodríguez Arias I want to acknowledge an immense merit, as you drew when you arrived in Ourense! It happened... yes, yes, because it mentioned all the big ones -- I'm not going to say great so as not to seem self-centered -- to all cities, less than the one in Ourense. So we're going to talk about Ourense, because for that there's a Member here from Ourense now. I believe that in this anxiety and the problem of losing European funds, I am very concerned about the 15 million euros that have just lost Ourense's MP, mainly the vice president of the MP, who has been withdrawn. He was asked in the plenary session of the Council of Ourense to withdraw his powers, most of them from the Council, for his ineffectiveness and for his incompetent nature. It is the only one of the Greek cities that won't have Edusi funds, it has 12 municipalities, and among them there will be the Council of Ourense because of the ineffectiveness and inefficiency of this concierge. [[Applause]] But it turns out that the Social Policy Council in particular, the Galician Council, also loses, Counsellor, funds; in this case, European funds. In the POCTEP program, at its convening this year, the Galician Union would benefit from EUR 8 million less than in the previous operational programme. That's why, Counselor, so I set the example for Extremadura. A president, Mr. Vara, who first comes to the presidency of the Government is to meet with his Portuguese neighbours. It seems to us the least: to develop a socio-economic plan to collaborate with them. With regard to Valador's report, I have no problem, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. We don't hide. I am not ashamed of any mayor or mayor of my party... of none, of none! I say more to you, I feel tremendously proud of the immense effort that you are making after Mr Montoro has suffocated them economically and they have been practically out of resources to be able to make the social policies that the socialist governments have raised since the 1980s in this country. [[Applause]] Very proud, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, and we can talk about it any time. But it's clear that you, like the person -- I don't know her and I'm very sorry, like most Vigo people -- like the candidate, if the People's Party doesn't know how to oppose it, have to come here constantly, to the plenary session of the Galician Parliament, to do it. Everyone knows what you have in your party, and if you think the Galician Parliament is to come up against a council, there you are!, for us it is to talk about the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. As for the general, Mr. Counsellor, I was not mistaken, I was not mistaken on the date I gave him. The overall investment in social policies, not the Council, the overall investment in social policies of the Government of Greece, is EUR 500 million less than in 2009. Don't do that, it's from the Government where you are, from your own counseling in particular, a part too. As far as childhood schools are concerned, of course, there are many more public squares. And I'm telling you, really, very pleased that you thank the Bipartite, you who are always charging against us, that more than 80 percent of the squares that have been opened, which have been made available to these parents and mothers, have been planned and projected by the Government of the Bipartite. And talk about what you want, about ourense's childhood school and what you want, because it's going to be done by the Ortega Amancio Foundation, I understand. And don't come to boast here, therefore, of what you won't even do, but others will. So we could keep talking about a lot of subjects. We today, Counselor, what we want to ask you for, since we've already exhausted the possibility of you explaining on the issues that concern the Greeks and the Greeks, is that the next time you re-registrate an appearance, come here and do it thinking about the needs of the people who are out there, not the needs of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u213	First and foremost, I would like to point out and point out that we are talking about those programmes which are funded by the Feder Fund. You haven't pointed out what the project they have for the Euroregion. The reality has already shown it, we are stagnant about convergence with the European Union. Unfortunately, we can achieve the theoretical objectives of this program, which is to strengthen economic cohesion and correct imbalances, with this type of pilot programs, punctual programs, programs that in addition to one of its objectives is to look for business niches. The objectives that these programmes aim to achieve better would be to increase social investment, to increase budgeting. This morning they even voted against it, so it is necessary to mention this context because it is evidence that the euro region does not regard it as a fundamental economic nucleus. The idea can give it the fact that that Atlantic infrastructure corridor doesn't go through Galicia. Anyway, they don't go to structural problems, and they've also just marked it as being presented with that document that referred to in the macro-region. They are talking about conciliation policies, about active ageing, but they avoid the question of employment. The question of employment I know is not the only cause, but it's fundamental, and above all, it's analyzed from a gender perspective. That genre view of these programs is also excluded. So the structural problems — we are talking about the euro region, not just our country — are not solved with these small patches, neither are they solved with this entrepreneurialism, which in many cases is false autonomy, which is that figure that is already there, a new modality — or not so new — of job insecurity. And as for these projects — I repeat — it would be better to strengthen social investment, which you yourself denied this morning. As for community social services, I didn't use the word dismantling, you said. What I've talked about is the saturation of a lot of people, who find themselves unable to meet all the social needs. So, what they have to do with community social services, instead of throwing balloons off the board in the Town Councils, is to urge their government of the state not to drown out the Town Councils in order to be able to make this kind of policy. And since we're campaigning for municipalities, which I think is very early, but in the end, we have to look at the half-truths that are exposed here. With regard to the Compostela Council, it is good to speak of the question that of the hours of the home aid service without indicating that the People's Party — the former Government of Compostela happily displaced — signed a contract, curiously in April 2015, has signed a contract for the home aid service, with an insufficient count, for which the Government of Compostela Open, sensibly, has increased to the maximum permitted by law, and today Compostela Opena has prepared the prayers and initiated the processing of a new contract that will double the necessity. So social investment is, fortunately, in the Town Councils of Coruña and Compostela. You also referred to that social income. They don't scour the bulk by saying that social policy is within the competence of the Galician Union. This social income is, of course, granted to 52 units of cohabitation. But fortunately, I said, the times of the judicial cases have passed and decent governments have entered in these cities. By the way, you said, Mr. Counselor, that you are doing childish schools in the councils they leave them. So let's take the floor, and we'll move it to these councils to make children's schools, because it's true that the waiting lists continue. Finally, it will not be the solution simply to change the municipalities, but it is a good solution — you see — that doubles the budget in social policy. And you asked us for solutions to improve, to be useful, for older people. You despise these programs that are useful to older people, to dependent people. We've already told you, the social situation is so serious that social spending must greatly increase. You denied this morning and systematically denied the proposals that, for example, In Marea has had in this regard. So we give them a solution -- if they want -- since there's the middle People's Bank breaking up, nationalizing it and making politics -- put it to the service of the real economy. Do you want solutions? They've got them in their hands!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u214	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems that all the spokespersons who intervened here are talking about municipal elections... No, no, it's just that we're not talking about municipal elections, we're talking about people. [[Protests.]] Specifically, the older people and the young people and the girls who are looking for employment. [[Protests.]] But you, when you tell them about the social policy that is being carried out in some of the cities where you rule, they already think that the People's Party is campaigning for municipalities. Yeah, look, they're wrong. [[Murmurs.]] Besides, I'd like to remember a sentence from a mayor of the Tides who, a few months after taking possession and seeing what it really was to rule a county, he would cry out that sometimes there's an easy speech and sometimes it's reality. For that is also what happens in this Parliament, sometimes there is an easy speech — which is yours when you come out here to criticize the social policies of the Galician Union — and at other times there is reality. And the reality is what the Galician Union shows with budgets in social policies, with programs to help older people, youth, families in Galicia, and above all those who need it most. That's reality, and what you're doing is easy speech. We're talking about social policies, we're talking about people. And you insist that when you talk about people, what you're doing here is privatizing services. But please, we're talking, Mrs. Prado, that you've done a master's degree in privatization. But if you're the ones who could teach Galician board how to privatize social services, Mrs. Prado! If you through Sogasserso, a private entity, wanted to build residences and day centers in Galicia! If you have privatized in almost all the municipalities where the service of Dinner is governed at home, the home help service and the management of children's schools! Look, for privatization, you privatized even the citizen's participation in participatory budgets. Do you remember those famous participatory budgets? So they paid a company 18,000 euros plus VAT to make a project to see how those participatory budgets were made. So, look, master in privatization, you already have two prizes: the stone heart prize and the master prize in privatization of social services. [[Applause]] Then the socialist spokesman complains bitterly that the spokesperson for the People's Group spoke of the great cities where they rule the PSOE, the BNG or the Tides, but did not speak of the Council of Ourense, where the People's Party governs. It's just that, Mrs. Blanco, the Council of Ourense doesn't appear in the ranking of officially poor municipalities in Spain. So, look, you have to study the budgets of the Council of Ourense to see what the Council of Ourense is for social services. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] And you have to study the budgets of the Vigo Town Hall to see how much the Vigo Town Hall is dedicated to social services. But, of course, Vigo here... you can't talk about Vigo. We speak of Ourense, we criticize the politics of the Galician Union; but Vigo or the Vigo socialists cannot be spoken of. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we're talking about Vigo. Why? Because that gentleman is president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Because that gentleman calls me a big manager every day. Because that gentleman has been charging him every day for Spain before he's the biggest manager of social services. And besides, he complains bitterly that all the problems that Vigo has are because Junta mistreats Vigo. Look, with the data we've just given you, from the seven-month delay in the risk processing, here's the only one who's mistreating the people who need it in Vigo Town Hall, maybe he's the socialist mayor, Mrs. Blanco. [[Murmurs.]] Maybe it's the municipal government itself. And here they haven't talked at all about anything you think the Compostela Council had lost a European grant of 6.2 million euros to fight poverty and social exclusion. What do you think? What do you think the Compostela Council has more than 123 people out of care for home help and reject the help of the Galician Union? What do you think of the Councils of Coruña and Santiago, who are reducing aid to social entities fighting poverty and social exclusion? What do you think of this famous social income of the Town Hall, which turns out today only one person is charging it monthly? What do you think of the risk processing in some municipalities, which comes — according to the people's valet report — to seven months? So when you're talking about a social model, you have to talk, because here we're talking about the social model of the Galician Union. But if you want to compare, we can compare. Of course, you can have the social model of the cities where they rule, but we want to move the model of the Galician Union to the cities of Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close the court, Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief because we must continue with many things in the debate. But really, to these 7.8 million euros that are going to increase the social resources of the Galician Union we hope to take away all of your party on Horizon 2017-2019. In addition to the economic and financial aspects of the mobilization of these public funds — I insist, EUR 7.8 million — we have the participation of universities, the participation of researchers, the participation of social agents and the association movement, because we want to do so in a participatory way, we want to do so in accordance with the sector that participates in social improvement. The World Health Organization defines health as the state of physical, mental and social well-being that ensures optimal functional capacity. And add that one of the determining factors of this is a balanced diet. From then on, really, the importance of this program, the importance of its participation in the same of 1,500 users of our day centers, our residences and the lunch program at home. Contribute to improving the well-being of older Greeks and Greeks is also the purpose of the Red May project, which is specifically directed at the largest in our rural world, to which we will allocate more than one million euros, to enter into operation mobile units that will continue to operate after the end of this Social Services Programme. And with the prevention program of our rural environment in the area of alzheimer and other neurodegenerative dementias. I'm also sure that when those early breast cancer detection buses were put on, many years ago, many would laugh at that, and then Galicia was one of the most advanced communities in early breast cancer detection. So we're going to do the same with alzeimer and other neurodegenerative dementias that are increasingly present in our larger ones. And we have bigger than other autonomous communities, because here really there are many healthy eating habits in our greatest and many physical activity habits in our largest that has led us to live longer years. Indeed, we will also try to advance in the digital home, because we have to take advantage of new technologies to, as I say, attend to the older ones who want it in their homes. I've said it before and I repeat it now, 1 out of every 4 Greeks is over sixty-five years old. In the year 2050 that percentage will increase by 10 points, it will be 35 % — almost — of the larger population of sixty-five years; and this is no problem, this is an opportunity. We have to prepare for that new opportunity, and today we have to do it, of course, by complying with the dependency law, increasing the number of squares in children's schools, increasing the number of squares in day centers, increasing the number of residences, increasing the number of hours of home help. But really, also through innovation, also through the participation of the sectors that represent our biggest ones. Or don't you want to count the associative tissue that represents our elders? We're gonna keep learning from them, we're gonna be able to remove the whole party from these programs dedicated to our seniors and our youth. So I hope and wish to be able to count on you all on that path of innovation, on that path of improvement, on that path that leads us to make Galicia a better place to be a child and also to be a better place to grow up. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u218	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members, on the request of the Greek Government to the central government of the creation ex novo of seven reinforcement judges in Galicia, with the human and material means necessary to confront, in each of the major cities of Greece, the likely flood of demands by ground clauses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u219	This motion for a non-law has been amended by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u220	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u221	Thank you, President. Well, the first thing we think about is that we should remember and remember that the judgment of the European Union Court of Justice which established that the ground clauses are abusive is December 21, 2016 and that we are in June 2017. On February 21 — two months after December — the Junta de Juices do Civil of the city of Vigo proposed a model, moved forward and said: We need to articulate a model because there is likely to be a flood of demands for the ground clauses of mortgages. And he established the possibility, proposed a model, which was to create ex novo a judge with the necessary personal and material means; that is, a judge or a judge, a lawyer or a lawyer from the Administration of Justice, a secretary or secretary, officials, a headquarters and an own division. It was expressly proposed to the General Council of the Judiciary by the Vigo Juices Board and it was taken to Madrid for an emergency plan to be launched. This parliamentary group coincided and coincided with that request, but not only for the city of Vigo, of course. It would be nice to have one in each court party with First Instance judges; but we knew it was economically unfeasible. That's why we thought that the main cities of Galicia, in addition to the four capitals of the province, had a model similar to the one proposed by the Vice Presidents' Board of Civils of the city of Vigo, and that's exactly why we registered this non-law proposition. Three months after the Vigo Judiciary Board had come up with a model that was not exactly what we asked for today, because they referred to the preferences, and the judges who solved the preferences were not a perfect solution for the resolution of those demands, which was just decided by the General Council of the Judiciary, with the aquiescence of the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the aquiescence too — because, as they have always been used to us, absolute silence — of the Galician Union, is that four judges who already exist, the 7th of the Coruña — 1st instance—, the 2nd of Lugo, the 4th of Ourrans and the 14th of Vigo, who are not exactly empty for their work, will also specialize in these demands for ground clauses. And the model, so the urgency plan itself -- the urgency plan gives a bit of a laugh, because if the sentence was in December and we are in June and we are just starting on day 1, a lot of urgency the plan didn't have -- works in the following way: in the judges who have a lower level of affairs -- I said the plan -- the judge assumes his own demands and, in addition, these new demands; that is, the demands — let's say -- normal, and these news for ground clauses; the plan says: with possible measures of compensation and reinforcement if necessary. And in the courts where the income of matters is higher, there may be a bis trial, i.e. another one with judges and judges in any case in practice, just out of the Judiciary School. We don't know what it means to have fewer cases or higher issues; that numeric nuance doesn't exist in the plan. Precisely this is what is being moved in the amendment proposed by the People's Party, as to its inaccuracy — I mean — and in the absence of a numerical system that tells us, for example — I will speak of the amendment in my second intervention, which means "approach the case"; we do not know what cases they are referring to. Last week, more than five months after the judgment of the Court of Justice. And from there on, the words of all professionals in the justice sector are: confusion, improvisation, disorientation, lack of staff and lack of information. They agree with the four judicial associations, all schools of lawyers and prosecutors, the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, the officials. They signed a manifesto against the decision of the General Council of the Judiciary. Of course, we know that the head of the General Council of the Judiciary is not exactly someone disconnected from the People's Party. They decided to centralize the claims precisely in these four courts in Galicia, and one per province in the rest of the Spanish state. Something unexpected happened the other day, in Granada, the meetings of the eighty-three schools of Spanish lawyers decided to focus on Granada and to agree on an administrative litigation against this emergency plan that was adopted one day in Madrid. Something unheard — I say — because professional schools often have different versions and different ideas on the same matters, and even today a Galician newspaper entitledula — has read it in Spanish, because they are in Spanish — "Rebellion of the judicial secretaries of the ground clauses". That is to say, you have again the same as Gallardón: the General Council of the Judiciary will become more popular, popular not only because you are famous, but also because you are popular because you are related to the People's Party, and you have just achieved that all sectors of Justice will be united again and together against this decision that is taken for claims by underground mortgage clauses. And it's no less. The judges are going to be captained by judges and judges in practice, and the General Council of the Judiciary made its decision when it was one week away for the three months that the Government has given to give an extrajudicial solution, of which, by the way, we have no data. So less bad than the People's Party governments are those of efficiency and effectiveness in all areas of the lives of citizens, also of the citizens who have a mortgage with ground clauses. This trial model already said the professionals were going to be collapsed, because the hundreds of demands from each province would not be able to deal with because there were no means, no lawyers, no officials, no computers. And that's how it was yesterday at Vigo they already had 15 daily demands, and they have, at Lexnet, no processing, because there are no computer equipment or officials to process these demands, 28 stops, no opening them. And we just started on June 1st. Therefore, absolute efficiency, efficiency and effectiveness. There will be delays, and eventually the usual ones, which are citizens, of course, not banks, will be harmed. There's no suitable means, there's not enough staff, there's no training. And these matters are not easy to resolve. The judgments will not be an identical model judgement for everyone, they will be different, because they will depend — and perhaps that is what the amendment of the People's Party refers to — on the "approach" case; each case will be different and the judgments will be different, and in the end what is going to be achieved is an unfair, antisocial solution that will end up favouring banking entities. We're demanding the requests. The social policy advisor used to come up here and talk about the sector. Well, so do we. Speaking to an old Member of this House, an illustrious member of the Bureau, who was always talking about the sector, because I will also talk about the sector, but the legal sector, not the sea sector. The whole sector is against this decision. We've been here for five months since a sentence that was almost predictable and the emergency plan doesn't work, there was no urgency and the effectiveness is not seen anywhere. There should be a new trial for these seven main cities of Galicia, but with its own headquarters, its own division, its own judges or judges, its own secretaries, official means — which, by the way, depend on the Council of Galicia, do not depend on the central state itself. Because responsibility is shared. On May 31 in Madrid, the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Ministry of Justice and the Vice-Presidentship of Galicia attended a meeting. They were all at a coordination meeting, but it seems they might be more useful to go for a coffee or take a walk around Madrid, because the result is really catastrophic and dantesque. That's why we urge what he said, to believe these seven ex-new judges, of reinforcement, one in every capital of the province and in Vigo, in Ferrol and Santiago de Compostela, with the right means, because in the end it will be certain a sentence that some of my former coworkers tell me: that in their usual work they have hundreds of demands since the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union was delivered. I'm told that these new judges for the ground clauses, ultimately, without any means, will only benefit banking entities and never the citizens on foot. That's why we expect them to vote in favour of something we consider, at least, fair. It's been many years with abusive clauses, that banking agencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u223	...—Finished, President—they knew they were abusive, and we hope you will correct this decision with your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor of Mrs Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Vilán, it's less bad that citizens know who works for solutions and who is dedicated to cheating, always announcing catastrophic and dantesque scenarios, because that's what has just been described frankly is what it's all about. See indeed the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in December. A month later the Government published a real decree of law, with an extrajudicial mechanism, to provide an answer or facilitate an extrajudicial response and agreements between consumers and banking entities; a mechanism that established that banking entities in a month had to have the mechanisms or measures necessary to facilitate such agreements and within three months to respond to them. So we're in this extrajudicial mechanism at the end of May. Even so, and despite the fact that banking entities have given them a very unequal response to these claims, and therefore that extrajudicial response will also determine the number of judicial matters that will be, and therefore, when you said there was no data, of course, because this was inevitable, and that mechanism is not exhausted, however, it turns out that February 10 is an urgent plan by the General Council of the Judiciary, and you say that you have decided acquiescenceally. No, he decided after meeting with the presidents of the Supreme Courts of Justice, after listening to the representatives of the Judiciary Boards, and therefore opts for a mechanism which provides for article 98 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which is that of specialization, specialization of one or more judges per province, precisely in exceptional cases and for a fixed time, which is the situation in which we find ourselves. In our view, this formula will promote uniformity. Tell you it's not easy business. Hey, these judges that you say are practical judges. Look, a specific training is planned. Even if you say it won't be easy trials, obviously the fact of specialization will also favor uniformity and that these judgments are more easily dealt with. And, on the other hand, it will allow to resolve disputes without accepting the response time given to the rest of the matter. These formulas, these measurements, Your Honor, moreover, have an advantage, and this formula allows itself to be adapted to the needs. Read Article 98, which speaks of specialization, and the plan foresees, depending on the volume of matters which have entered, different scenarios. One of them, when you say, "Do the judges assume their own demands in cases of less workload?" No, because what is expected is the partial exemption from the distribution in such cases. And you say, how many matters are few or many matters? Now, look, read the plan and you'll see that for less than 400 cases this partial breakdown exemption is provided; that, from 401 to 900, 1 reinforcement judge; that, from 900 to 2,000, 2 reinforcement judges. I mean, the plan is planned for different scenarios, and it's also designed for the changes that are taking place depending on the volume of issues that are coming in. Therefore, Mrs Vilán, the General Council, as I told you, opted for this formula, and in Galicia specifically opted for this first situation or scenario in the cases of Lugo and Ourense, and in the case of Coruña and Vigo opts for 1 strengthening judge, 1 lawyer of the Administration of Justice and 3 officials. The Government and the General Council of the Judiciary, in our view, have brought solutions, and in the People's Group we are clear on the importance of making citizens, consumers, all the means for them to meet and respond quickly to claims arising from the ground clauses, and in addition, that these answers should not affect the resolution of the rest of the matter. But, Your Honor, we have very recently that political burden that you have used in the case of the preferences, even if you wanted to put in place those extrajudicial solutions, and, therefore, I hope that, as far as the ground clauses are concerned, you don't opt, and this is simply a hasty action, and you don't fall into the easy populism, to which you have already pointed out in this plenary. Because, look, it's not about where you see four judges want seven, where you see three officials want five, because obviously the determination of reinforcements or the number of judges cannot be the result of their capricious decision, will have to go according to needs. What we have to do is do an evaluation, and a monthly evaluation of this emergency plan is planned. That's why we have tabled an amendment, Your Honor. And I want to respond to this that has just been said in connection with Vigo's demands and rebellion. Look, what you also have to say is that in Vigo these days, where it goes since the specialist judge is running, if they have filed 30 lawsuits; it doesn't look like a flood of demands, as you want to let go when he says we have hundreds! of demands. Let's go. In Ourense in two days 10 demands have been filed, I don't know what surprises you, but I don't think we're talking about that huge flood. And so let it go, let it go, let it work this week, they're going to be working, and what it's about is that, depending on the burden of affairs, they're going to determine the needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u227	...which they thought. And that's why our amendment, which we hope you will accept — and I am finished, Mr President — in which we urge the Council of Galicia to equip itself, and we say, "The case has come," according to the indications given to it by the General Council of the Judiciary, in the sense of "enlarge...". And allow me to make a correction to a transcription error. Where it is said, "the scope", it should say, "enlarge the number of judges appointed to conduct judicial proceedings relating to ground clauses, depending on the evolution of the demands and the material and personal means necessary for these new specialized judges." Let's let them boot up, let's see the number...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u229	...of cases presented and, depending on that, we expand the number, if necessary, or the reinforcements. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u231	Good afternoon, everyone. I'll also read a couple of headlines. I'm going to translate it, which I'm inspired to do, even though the Galician Board won't pay me a grant to publish in English to do it in Spanish. The Voice of Galicia, edition of Ourense: The judge received 10 demands for ground clauses in just two days; at this rate it is foreseeable a collapse in the judgment of the merchant. That's not what BNG says. Vigo Lighthouse: The trial of ground clauses continues unstarted, with 28 cases stopped and now without legal counsel. The former secretaries refuse to take up this work voluntarily by demanding a full-time professional. Demands registered since Thursday, without redealing. Yesterday's was supposed to be the third working day of a ground clause reinforcement trial. Etc., etc. Man, a flood won't be, but those 28 demands are stopped. Anyway, I think that between this and the data that have already been released, realized there is that the emergency plan is absolutely delusional and that today's news that is happening these days reflects something that ultimately is not a surprise, it's not something that surprises anyone. And, for example, if we go to the Journal of Sessions, something that usually likes the People's Party so much, we can see how, when we debate in this House on the subject of the December ruling last year on how we should handle the issue of ground clauses, because the opposition groups already warned that this could happen and that there was a need to do some sort of action on it. It was predictable, because, as we denounced with greater or lesser force the forces of opposition, the decree adopted in the state, with the convolence of the People's Party and also of the Socialist Party and of Citizens, was an absolute failure announced, a new blank check to the bank; a decree which is the underlying problem of what we are talking about today, which was compounded with the usual evidence of complicity of the large parties of the State with the bank; a decree which, as we denounce, refused to lay the foundations for transparent and rational functioning in the bank of the future; an absolutely insufficient decree to leave the extrajudicial way to the needs of the people concerned, and which now derives from that, while waiting for that term to be completed and that we may have a more comprehensive vision, there are many people who have ended up opting for that strictly judicial route before the real repeated call to be the extrajudicial way back. Let's briefly review some of the reasons why this royal decree is an absolute coat of hair and it doesn't work. On the one hand, it must be remembered that I did not take urgent measures to speed up the solution, which we understand would have to go through — according to our understanding — by forcing abusive entities to return by themselves to those accounts that had supposed a clear case of aggravating their customers. He didn't bet on that way of office, and hence the consequences. Secondly, there is also a real nonsense that determines that it is the bank that qualifies and informs consumers of the existence of abusive floor clauses, without making a cataloguing of what that clause was exactly abusive floor clause and being able to make a matter that was collective. And then one of the most completely triggered issues of this whole process is that it's exactly the bank itself — that is, who stole — who has to decide which count to return to the client. That's to take the affected people straight away, because it's a real coat of hair. On the other hand, we also saw how the result is that it does not mitigate litigation, that it was sold to us as such a fundamental thing, and that we agreed that for any citizen it is a matter of priority to have to go to the courts, something that leaves a lot of uncertainty and leaves many complexities, but of course there were other alternatives. There was the alternative to empowering procedures of its own accord, there was the alternative to empower arbitration systems, as we proposed other political organizations; or even, at least, to exercise exclusive powers of consumption, to which it also resigned the Board, giving up non-law proposals driven by this organization to establish, in the wake of the Galego Institute of Consumption, some mechanism which, even if it were random, monitored if those offers of treatment were to be fair. He didn't, and now we have the consequences. Consumer organizations are already alerting how many banking entities are offering a much lower content than they should return to customers and many of them trying to put new financial products in order not to return everything to liquid. So beyond putting a solution to this particular problem, for which we shall vote in favour of the Socialist Party's proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u233	...we understand that from the People's Party, as a majority force in the Union and the State, they should, on one side, rectify and equip these judicial media and also manage political responsibilities for taking us to this point, especially to the people affected. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u235	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We saw the beginning of a new abnormal functioning of the Administration of Justice, a new chaos of Justice, of which they are responsible for defending Justice; they defend it, yes, but without means, and defend it, yes, but hindering access to effective judicial custody, hindering access to jurisdiction. First of all, as has been said here since February, it was known that June 1 would begin the moment when the demands to the judges, whether they might be flood or not, but, as the regulation was set up, it was obvious that it would be set up in a flood regime, as it is happening. And why is that? Because the legal solution to the correction, in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the ground clauses, as stated at the time in Merea, would compel the swindled persons to go to the courts. In which we come to a situation of double fraud or mass fraud. First of all, because of the large mass scam which I have subjected to the presence of ground clauses in mortgage contracts, and only those which by means of the European Union's right of consumption could be corrected. But for years, citizenship was the one that had to continue paying not only that capital, but those interest that came unilaterally and abusively from the bank. But the second abuse was perpetuated with the convolence of the public authorities, with the popular party's convolence in relation to the bank — the bank and Abanca, in particular — with a solution that it established in February, with the real decree, an equivalence between abusers and victims. And equity is not acceptable when the parties are not on equal terms and when some have been convicted of fraud and the others have been victims of this mortgage system. In this way, as explained here, the bank was not stimulated by compliance with legality, the bank was not encouraged to reach an agreement, when it was the bank that unilaterally determined the abusive nature of the clause or when it determined the amount to be paid and, in addition, when a cost limitation system was established in order to claim judicially. But not enough, there is a new abuse last week, which is the alteration of the competent judge on grounds of territory, something I disagree with in relation to the focus of the People's Party. The Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Law of Civil Judgment state that in contracts with general contract clauses the competent judge is the domicile of the applicant. But here, not the plaintiff's domicile, it becomes the trial of the provincial capital, so that people who are victims of this situation are the ones who have the burden of displacement to the provincial capital. A person who lives in Viveiro and has the trial in front of the house will have to go to Lugo, at the cost of moving an hour and a half of travel; the same happens with a person from Gudigna, who will have to go to Ourense, or Ortigueira, who will have to go to the Coruña too, with the displacements and with all that it means to increase expenses. Who benefits from this system of remoteness from the citizen's justice? Who benefits from this exceptional use of the Procedural Law? Obviously, to the bank, to the bank, because what you stand for, when you do from the defense of the province's capital in all these cases, you'll perceive a higher cost on the part of those who have to move. It was mentioned here that this specialization is a consequence of the application of article 98 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. In fact, what happens is that the February decree could foresee and avoid the situation that is now created and that is intended to be solved by specialization. And how could it be solved? So we said it here from this rostrum: the government had in its hand to establish a decree that established a proactive position and a proconsuling position, not equidistant between those who were convicted and the users, who were the constables. There's no fairness between a condemned bank and a swindler, there's no equity! And much less there's the possibility, it's not fair the obligation that the system of unilaterally establishing the amount and the abusive character in favour of the bank. For that reason, it was foreseeable that the bank would not, in most cases, move forward to drafting abusive clauses, because they would say they were not abusive in any of the cases. They had no reason to solve the problem extrajudicially. The honourable Member of the People's Party believes that in three days 30 demands are little, in twenty-two working days a month there are 220 demands, at the end of the year 2,400, from the increase in the ordinary work of a judge. I don't care about them. But the problem is that the injured are citizens and citizens. For that reason, we felt that, of course, a solution had to be produced differently. To begin with, in the next joint commission between the Board and the General Council of the Judiciary, they could tell the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, particularly their president, that they could take a look around here to see what our geography is, what the population distribution is, ultimately, what our population settlement and our idiosyncrasy is to see how they should be distributed territorially to ensure access to effective judicial protection. In addition, it was possible for the Galician Union itself to arbitrate mechanisms for the pre-procedural solution of this problem. Within the narrow frameworks that gave the royal decree, it was possible that it would be agreed or that an extrajudicial settlement mechanism would be agreed and encouraged by the public administration itself, and in a coordinated manner with the municipalities themselves, a solution to meet all citizenship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u237	...... yes, I will finish—that is affected by this. In such a way that In Marea will support the initial proposal put forward by the Socialist Group, but it will not do so if the transaction proposed by the People's Party is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group who is the author of the non-legislative proposal to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u239	Thank you, President. I don't know if it's good or bad. Let me be populist for my intervention in the morning and for this intervention I have now, because at the end I'm going to thank you, because in the end it's going to be populist, it's going to be at the heart of your target, and we're going to have to give the reason that in the Socialist Party, from now on, we're populist, and also in the PSdEG. All we do is report what's going on, nothing else. And, of course, those who are not populists are certain that it's the associations of judges, tax associations, schools of lawyers, schools of prosecutors. Those populists have absolutely nothing, and they're all against the measure decided upon by the General Council of the Judiciary. As much as I used to read, "Rebellion of the judicial secretaries in the ground clauses," in this article it was said that Vigo's interim secretary would extend his day to provide this service, but yesterday, in the face of pressure from his colleagues, he decided to resign. All of Vigo's judicial secretaries have decided to sign a manifesto complaining about this improvisation, and in the end it will have to be the provincial coordinator who appoints a secretary who will necessarily have to take over this judicial office. So you know well that this measure is not a measure to benefit consumers, to benefit citizens. You know, the first mechanism that you wanted to choose is that juvenile judges take care of the demands of ground clauses, juvenile judges who have jurisdiction in criminal matters. But he talked to them and the juvenile judges said that "no talking," that they didn't assume that competition, first because they weren't the civil specialists and so they wouldn't. I mean, what they did on the part of the Government was to touch a number of sectors not to make the decision they had to make, which was that there were judges to devote themselves exclusively to demands for ground clauses, in order to be able to resolve, as you said, the honourable Member of the People's Party, as quickly as possible. The prices are not fast, they're slow, they're late, and I'm not telling the corresponding provincial audiences, which will also be there, appeals, it'll take years. So the answer won't be fast. And yet there are many decisions, many solutions, that extrajudicial solution, unsolved. And yet all the demands for free justice remain that will be dealt with in the schools of lawyers and that will also be presented in the courts. And if in three days — Saturdays and Sundays are infallible in trials — from day 1, three days until yesterday, there were 30 demands in Vigo — there are 10 demands per day — and there are not many judges, missing all extrajudicial solutions, a lot of them unresolved, missing all demands for free justice, missing all the demands that lawyers' offices have in their offices to present themselves at the moment they were installed and started working these judges. That's not catastrophic, that's pure and hard reality. We know that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u241	...when the solution to real life doesn't like it, what they do is look elsewhere, to try to avoid it. Here what we would like to know — we reject the demand for inaccurateness and because it is only to say the same as the General Council of the Judiciary, and they are all against — that is who will benefit from the rotational door for each of the banking entities that will be benefited through these lawsuits — let us say — collapsed that you have decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u242	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo. I understood that the amendment was rejected, didn't I? He refuses. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, thank you very much. We move on to the next point, which is 5.2 in the non-law proposition group. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the measures to be implemented in relation to the expansion of eucalyptus plantations in Galicia, in particular Eucalyptus nitens, with regard to the forecasts of the Forest Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u243	This motion for a non-law tabled the following amendments: of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez, and of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u244	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor, by the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. When we allow us to plant eucalyptus in the fields and bring food to the cattle of Brazil or Argentina and our God knows where, we contribute to destroying the planet, because we force forests like Amazon. The land of agricultural potential is limited and the most precious good, along with the water, for mankind. Allowing eucalyptus to be planted in agricultural lands is a criminal act, only comparable to Mr. Trump's madness. [[Applause]] Everything has come to tell us in recent times that the situation has nowhere else to go, it's collapsed, it's a collective disincentive. We have a sick territory, our mountain is getting older, exhausted, with a lamentable health situation; one part of it, abandoned, and the other part, suffering from over-exploitation of the eucalyptus subspecies and other invasive and harmful species. Their profitability is laughing. We don't invent it by the BNG. They are judgments of the National Forest Inventory IV, and we all agree on the disagreement. Some are due to the 600,000 hectares of overcrowding that say production or use, and of the remaining 1.4 million hectares, only 29% say that they are managed under efficiency criteria. Then there are the times when the mountain was the natural and essential complement to agriculture and it would gain from this country. And the modern commercial spirit has arrived, rooting, all that measures in the minutes present: if it's tomorrow it doesn't matter anymore, it has to be today, money in hand and the heart in the belly. Almost all began — almost — with Icona's restocking, Mr. Count: pines up to the onion, multifunctionality eliminated by decree, and it happened what had to happen. Not even the machacona propaganda was able to stop that wave of fires, they burned everywhere the stolen mountains that, nevertheless, were being taken advantage of by farmers, were unilaterally and authoritarianly resettled, nothing would go up. Then we experience the hope of the milk revolution. From the seventy to the eighty many landlords got the property with a thousand sacrifices, with broken back. The subsidies distributed in this way — we know — by the PP — where the AP did not reach Europe's demands and money had to be raised, and the mountain, by suggestion of the pasta and the boards, was filled with eucalyptus, subsidised on agricultural land as well. We were all going to see how this species ran out of soil fertility, how it choked and dried up the aquifers, how it didn't allow life in its shade, nor did the ants dare. We all saw how the tranquility and balance of the old humanized ecosystem of our mountain came down, and what was more! The common sense, the laws, are not to be fulfilled. You know, while there's no complaint, you're gonna make money in your pocket. And when the country's eucalyptus was 100 years old, it was about to have depredation, and the bug that ate his soul appeared, but the interests were so much and so substantial that there was money for research. Who the hell is behind? Who's behind? The anticipated appeared—sorry: I am from the village—the nitens, and come acres, all with the blessing of successive governments of the same rope, to the service of the hygienic paper and the ready-to-wear furniture, and on that we walk. In 2014 the cut-off volume was 7.5 million cubic meters, for 70,000 owners, who received 280 million euros; cost of fire services: 173 million euros; ruinous business. Not long ago, at the Galician Forest Council, a decree was issued by the Council that included a moratorium on eucalyptus plantation in the province of Ourense and in the east and south of Lugo. That ended up like the rosary of dawn. It has been said that the area planned for eucalyptus in the current Galician forest plan is 245,000 hectares. And according to the National Forest Report IV, they've been over 20 years ago. Today we're in more than twice as much. According to this data and for ten years now, the surfaces planted with nites have grown and increased the ratio of 12,000 hectares per year and, in the middle of everything, 30,000 hectares of land planted illegally. There are especially protected agricultural soils with pine forests for thirty or forty years. Out of control, absence of planning and lack of spatial planning. Which way do we walk? And when the cuts from the forested masses come ten or twelve years ago and the price cracks, what, then what? And what do you do about this chaos? For here we are the BNG willing to reason competently, that friend Manuel Maria would say. This non-law proposal in its resolution contemplates the inflection necessary to start the brake and sit down to talk about the mountain seriously, everyone. It is imperative and urgent to recover the cord. We have a lot of privilege, the best in all Europe, without chauvinism. I'm not going to read to you here the reasons for the requetesabides why to ban nitens or the need to shrink the surface of eucalyptus, or the timely prohibition of energy crops, and the limitation of the power of forest biomass plants, or the necessary reorganisation of the territory. Nor will I remove their awareness of the policies, indisputably correct, that the Suárez Canal team designed and started. You don't know about endogenous measures or brave policies that overcome historical weaknesses. Anyway, I'm going to be allowed to go wrong: I'm going to remind this House of one of those measures. All — on one side and on the other, from right to right, which is not sinister — agree that the atomization of the property of the mountain is one of our problems. At least 600,000 owners with small curtains and rags that don't exceed the 7 ferrates on average. This means that, even if we have superior mount tendons, we also have ferrets. The uxfor (forest management units) were born to, from private property, from private property — not what some flying leaves said, which some people threw into elections at certain electoral schools, etc., etc.—, no, no, from private property, they were born to, from private property and atomization, make a reasonable exploitation of the mountain, collective, an instrument designed so that owners with a minimum sensitivity and aware of the disadvantages of microproperty could manage the mountain together. In a short space of time, 46 uxfor in motion, with 10,000 hectares, and working. The demolition squad of Feijóo's team and company swept the road to chaos and now they don't know what to do, because the eucalyptus throws them over, literally on it. Look, as a singer who's part-time, I'd tell him with a song: "The shoe asks for half and the half asks for shoes." It means: our mountain — shoes, instead of rocking — asks for wood of quality and multifunctionality; gowning is a barbarity, because it's for footwear booty, of better quality. All this, appropriate to its potential wealth, calls for courageous measures, measures that bring wealth to our people, to our country, calls for tenderness. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good time. The eucalyptus sat down to his defenders. Have courage. This proposal is a necessary principle: to stop the time of chaos, to reflect, to recover for the cordura the captive land, to start policies in positive, policies in positive, non coercive, in positive, to return things to their place, and to diversify species, ruling autochthonous and multifunctionality. Do it gradually, which is what marks this LNP, clear your face to the landscape and bring back to the country the wealth that the gods gave us in the form of soil and microclimates of moisture and latitude. It's a minimum GNP. He's in his hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u246	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u247	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today it's about a bad, a classic, and within the bad classics, even the worst of all, that's the nites. But we must not give moral class to a vegetable crop. And the effects to place them in reality, the effects of eucalyptus, can be good or bad depending on the place where it is planted, the amount and essentially the density. And these three variables are basic to understand the problem and its effects, both positive and negative. But we're talking about a theme full of urban legends, like eucalyptus is equal to fire, when only 15% of burnt hectares are directly related to eucalyptus. This doesn't mean there isn't a direct relationship in other aspects or in other ways, but I've recently heard a speaker in a course on eucalyptus at the University of Vigo relate the fires in Ourense to the eucalyptus. We're all amazed, nobody says anything, we throw forward, and that's how the world goes often. The truth is we're talking about a sector of great transcendence to the country. A few small figures or brushes that reflect us that 670,000 owners and about 100,000 producers, therefore, many neighbors, many people in our rural area, are directly linked to this forest sector and partly also to eucalyptus, which generates the forest sector — not the eucalyptus — some 70,000 jobs in the Autonomous Community, between direct and indirect. So it's a very important sector. If we talk about the eucalyptus, the specific situation of the eucalyptus, 50% of the wood that has been cut in these years is eucalyptus wood, occupying more/less 20% of the surface. But not only, as the previous comparative said, are we talking about the productive sector, but eucalyptus and forest in general have very important drifts at the social, cultural and environmental level. And if we're talking about eucalyptus, we're talking about a drift that impoverishs biodiversity, decreases the wealth of our soils, and therefore it's a crop that has to be under the magnifying glass and that has to be incardinated. If we talk about the problems that it causes, we don't explain how the forecasts of the next forest plan of 1992, with 245,000 hectares that were fixed, ended on 425,000 hectares. That's a lack of control that we don't explain how it can produce, as we don't explain how 30,000 hectares of land today — more or less — are occupied mainly by eucalyptus plantations, although not exclusively. Nor do we explain how almost nothing is done to curb this invasion of the land. Nor is it explained by the Commission's 7th, June 2nd, i.e. there are two television sets, that the comparative Director General does not provide any data on the occupation of land by the eucalyptus. Shut up, we're incomprehensible. And this disincentive is only possible because of the administration's uncontrollability. It is true that a lack of control fueled by rural abandonment, by the decline of the gain model, by the need for economic resources and by the depreciation of the leafy ones, that this is another key to which we talk a lot, but that we have to put the points about the is, those which everyone seems to want, the leafy ones, but that no one can value, and if they are not valued, there is no future for them, we must not be deceived. If the forest area is not ordered and planned, there will be an uncontrolled expansion of the eucalyptus with economic effects — as was said before — that can be dramatic for many neighbors, at economic level, at sociocultural level, at environmental level, etc. Our position in the face of this uncontrollable forest is that we must proceed to order and plan eucalyptus plantations, so that they do not continue to expand without control, and this must be done through a Welsh Forest Plan that orders, plans and regulates, but not one of chirigots, like the current one, but a serious one to enforce the law, which is said in that plan, and through the district forest resource management plans, which are a scale-down mechanism at the comarcal level, which can regulate and can plan, because planning and sorting are the keys to allay this problem. In front of the monoculture and the extension of the eucalyptus, the lack of valorization of the leafy ones, we are committed to introducing conditionality mechanisms that balance forest and leafy crops and compensate for the extension and care of the leafy surfaces, which today occupy one third of our forest surface but only provide 10% of the wood value. We have to break with the eucalyptus monoculture in the coastal Galicia, and for that we have to plan and order the forest world. We must value the leafy ones, so that they are kept and expanded, because, if not, oaks, oaks and strawberries will be nothing but a poetic or ethnographic resource; they will have to be valued; if they are not valued, they will not be kept by the peasants and their neighbours. And before the ban, we understand that we have to plan, order and apply the law, on land land, for example. Because to prohibit it is also the decree of the Union, which from our point of view is a curtain of smoke to spread the monoculture of the eucalyptus in the coastal Galicia, while in the other half of Galicia — province of Ourense and a third of Lugo —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u249	...that there's too little, little paints this ban. So in the face of the ban, we defend planning and organization, both of the eucalyptus and of the rest of the forest species in a new serious forest plan, where district resource management plans play a key role. And if it is forbidden, it will be forbidden. And we defend mechanisms of conditionality and compensation to harmonise the forest world, because, if not, by itself and with a lot of poetry, it is neither organized nor planned, and organization and planning and regulation is what it takes in this sector and what it does in this world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u251	And in order to finish, President, we'll have to keep talking about this issue and we'll have to discuss it a lot. And with regard to the proposal that comes to us, we are going to abstain, although we are in agreement with the first part, but in the second part, of the declaration of the nitens as an invasive species, no, because there is no agreement of the scientific community, and rather, all the data refers to the fact that it does not have the particularities that should have an invasive species. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u252	Look at the clock. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u253	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia more than one hundred and fifty years ago, the expansion of eucalyptus cultivation has begun throughout our country. In recent years, and with the constant complicity of the Galician Union, timber and paper companies have sold it as a profitable panacea, a fast-growing forest species, against the slowness of wood production of other native trees. Since the 1960s, Galicia, Asturias, the north and the center of Portugal, the southwest of Andalusia, have been territories reconnected with the exotic species of the eucalyptus, to supply the pulp mills of paper and benefit large companies with this wood. With Royal Decree 630/2013 of 2 August, the Spanish Catalogue of Exotic and Invasive Species comes into force, with the aim of strengthening the protection of the environment and biodiversity. The problem caused by these species was considered to be a priority within the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020, approving the Regulation on Exotic and Invasive Species. Which at first seemed to be about having a certain number of hectares of that species, with the passage of time was growing exponentially. Since the 130,000 hectares of 1973, according to the first Forest Inventory, in 2016 more than 400,000 hectares have been occupied in Galicia, between pure and mixed masses, representing practically the fifth part of the Galician mountain; i.e., the eucalyptals have grown on the surface by 300 % in just forty-three years. This increase is associated with several causes. Apart from the voluntary restockings supported and subsidized from the Administration as the only alternative forest crop, it highlights the uncontrolled progress towards the lands abandoned by seed scattering, aggravated by forest fires. When the best conditions of propagation are given by the speed of the fire and the launch of musicians, they can reach more than 1 km, with the consequent risks to the repositioning of the environment. In the last forty years, the surface invaded by the seed of the eucalyptus, only the consequence of forest fires, is estimated at more than 25,000 hectares, increasing the uncontrolled advance of this species. In addition, the eucalyptals convert into low-biodiversity land, due to essential leaf oils that form a layer upon the ground, with a low rate of decomposition. On the other hand, the roots seek moisture and water, reaching more than 50 meters in eucalyptus 25 meters high, penetrating into storehouses, penetrating into springs and creating a surface swamp that prevents water filtration towards aquifers. From an economic point of view, it is necessary to add that many of the eucalyptals who have passed from the excess of the profits, from the three cuts, from the loss of profitability to the owner, are totally neglected, with the proliferation of broaching onions, generating impenetrable spaces of low economic value rods, which remain in this state until they are once again fed by the fire, and thus always increasing the surfaces of degraded areas. Currently, approximately 175,000 hectares with eucalyptus are in this situation. The Galician Forest Plan of 1992 was unanimously adopted in this Parliament, in the Greek Parliament, for a period of 40 years, which intended to put a stop to the eucalyptus repo and which proved to be a real failure. It is evident that, in the period of control provided for in the Galician Forest Plan, only between 1992 — which was the year of its publication — and 1998 — the area of eucalyptus increases by 60,000 hectares; that is, in six years we exceed the total forecast of the plan for forty years. Eucalyptus plantations in Galicia account for more than half of those in the Spanish state, reaching 52 % of the total. The causes? Agrarian abandonment, the decline in the rural environment, the lack of a productive, sustainable and multifunctional model, the catchment of agricultural land for the planting of eucalyptus. This happens before the passivity, when not complicity, of the Unity of Galicia. We make deaf ears by failing to comply with our own standards. From En Marea we found only one accomplice linked to the rise of the eucalyptus in our country, and it's the People's Party. What's your goal? With the aim of continuing to plant eucalyptal the timber industries, Ence, large companies, pulp pastes, promote biomass, etc., etc. So we're going to support the non-law, necessary proposal that presented the Nationalist Block of Wales. We present an amendment to add in point 1 of the resolution, where we ask that this species be removed from sensitive spaces — those included in the Natural Space Act and the Natura Network — and the elimination of this species within a radius of 100 meters of streams and river margins and streams within a maximum of five years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u254	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u255	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today the Non-Law Proposition presented by the Nationalist Galego Block in relation to the eucalyptus, and I want to take advantage of that yesterday's voicer, Mrs. Pontón, defended the need to arrive at a country agreement in relation to the Greek mountain. Look, the country agreements I don't think can be achieved by making unilateral approaches to the press or always trying to put on top of the Group of the People's Party or the People's Party itself all the misfortunes that can happen to our rurals. I don't think that's the way country agreements are made. The country agreements bring consensus between the different parliamentary groups and the sectors involved, and then have to be reflected in legal rules establishing the basic framework for functioning. On the mountain, the basic operating framework is the Galician Forest Plan. We're going to make a bit of a memory, because this is what we're talking about in Commission 7a, that's going to review the Galician Forest Plan. The Galician Forest Plan, of which you have spoken here, of course it is true that it is of the year 1992, and already the Mountain Law, Law 7/2012, makes a plan to proceed to your review. This review is about doing from bottom to top, with the participation of the agents involved through the representation bodies of those involved, which is Galician Forest Council. We may be here talking, but you also have to talk about the sector. The Galician Forest Council, where the whole sector is — I repeat — has 48 votes, of which 28 correspond to the private sector: owners, entrepreneurs, universities, engineers, environmental associations. He created in 2014 a working group to set out the guidelines that had to be used by the Galician leadership board for the revision of the Galician Forest Plan, which, I repeat, is where we have to order our mountain. These guidelines were adopted on 17 December 2015. It is 112 slides — some of them we saw in Commission 7a — and as a result of these guidelines, which are those which must follow the Council of Galicia imperatively — and then we will talk about what we are proposing on this issue — that is why we are now reviewing the Plan, which we hope will end this year. Just by referring to some of them, we're going to see what they say. First of all, they say that there is no need to increase the current forest area, 2 million hectares. They say you should increase the current tree surface, 1.4 million hectares. They also say that the unwooded surface has to be valued, increasing the production of pasture and forage in the mountains — multifunctionality, ladies and gentlemen. They also talk about the importance of chestnuts, mushrooms, honey and aromatic plants in the Italian mountain. They say — and now comes the transcendent, by the eucalyptus — that the wooded surface occupied by conifers should be increased, particularly the country's pine. They say that the tree surface occupied by eucalyptus should be maintained or reduced. You're already aware of the guidelines of the problem. They say it is necessary to increase the forested surface occupied by leafy cadifoli, by promoting plantations, especially chestnuts, oaks, cherries, walnuts, strawberries and birchs. Is this not to agree? Don't we agree? So, in this quest for consensus, we have a non-legislative proposal in Commission 7 on 2 February, and we urged the Joint Assembly to follow the guidelines that I have just read, as agreed by the Galicia Forest Council. Votes in favour: PP; others abstained. They'll tell me what they were looking for. Look, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group, of course, is not in favour of the eucalyptus monoculture in our country. [[Murmurs.]] Ask him, ask him, you'll see. [[Applause]] Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] I don't even know what you would think, Mr. Rivas, when I was mayor of the subject of the eucalyptus; we had to know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, the fact is that the surface for the eucalyptus provided for in the current Galician forest plan, which was 245,000 hectares, has already surpassed enough — here we are talking about. The reasons are two: first, there's a lot of demand for eucalyptus and, moreover, it's a profitable crop, but not for large companies. In 2015, 82,000 cuts were made in Galicia, 8 million and a half cubic metres, almost 300 million euros of billing, to 80,000 owners — who are not talking here about being big entrepreneurs. And what do we do about the eucalyptus? The first is that the Union has not subsidized eucalyptus plantations for more than 20 years. Every year they publish help lines for planting of what?: of leafy caducifoli and fruit growers. As for the cultivation limitations of eucalyptus, look, these trees cannot be planted on agricultural land, on the banks of the rivers, near the houses, and there are also limitations for cultivation on Natura Network. We're obliged to apply for authorization if we make a plantation of more than 5 hectares. If someone fails to comply with these limitations, the first thing the Council does is to notify the owner of the matter — since 2012, 1,649 notifications — and then, if he continues to do so, the sanctioning file. Since 2012, 470 file sanctions for planting on land of agricultural protection, cut without authorization, planting of eucalyptus where there were leafy, illegal rest... Ladies and gentlemen, we, in connection with the requests made by the Galician Nationalist Block, say to them: the place where we have to seek consensus and where we have to make this regulation is in the revision of the Galician Forest Plan. In relation to the eucalyptus nitens — and coincident with Mr Quiroga — the scientific requirements are not met today in order to understand that it is an invasive species. In relation to the third point of its LNP, I want to finish by saying that forest energy crops are allowed in the Galician Mountain Law and in the application — and I think this is good — of policies directed at gradual reduction in the use of fossil fuels for energy purposes and considering the role of biomass as an alternative energy source with neutral carbon dioxide emissions. This parliamentary group does not share the view that it should be prohibited, if the conditions for carrying out these energy crops should be regulated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u257	...in accordance with the Community environmental guidelines and the promotion of renewable energy, and all this within the framework of the review of the Greek Forest Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u258	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. See if he gives me time to answer at least four or five things. Look, you're responsible for this chaos. Yes, yes, that is, if, from 1992 until now, instead of reducing the restoration by eucalyptus, paid, as you did at that time..., you have been ruling here thirty-many years -- I don't tell you about franchiseism. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, of course! [[Applause]] No, no, no, let's be serious. [[Murmurs.]] If that plan has not been fulfilled and the Eucalyptus hectares have doubled, you're a failure. [[Applause]] And it turns out that we now want to be caught by this new Forest Council that makes a plan... by the way, how many decades does the Forest Council take without renewing and contemplating the representative reality on the mountain and the interests on the mountain? I mean, you first implement the eucalyptus plantation, you create a sector dependent on eucalyptus, on the industries that transform the eucalyptus, and now you come to what dramatically... we don't talk about drastic measures, because that meant a great social failure and a great social revolution, which we're not prepared to deal with. I'm not talking about the BNG, I'm talking about the House, that is, the German country. We're talking about gradual, serious, conscious measures, and you're not in agreement. No, no, you want to keep implementing eucalyptus plantation. [[Murmurs.]] I'm gonna have eucalyptus up in the house pots. I refuse! Of course! [[Applause]] I refuse! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The nites. We all know that scientific studies pay conveniently, suggest, and there are always university doctors able to sign favourable reports to each other. That's it! So let's be serious. [[Murmurs.]] You and we see this country every day and we see an olive-green landscape that pulls back, that fills even more... let's see. Lugo and Ourense the big problem they have is that their climate doesn't serve another eucalyptus like the nites. And, then, now his mayors and possibly one of us may wonder, "Concho, he gives money!" There's no alternative. Let's create an alternative! And we're gradually going to replace it. And let's be sensible. Let's put this flag country, with noble woods, with woods that come back for the future, with capital for our grandchildren, with all that you and we know it's possible. [[Applause]] And I repeat: the Councillory of the deostate Bipartito was able to prove that it was possible. After the presentation of farms that were unused by banks that didn't work, the next day the phones of land banks were collapsed, and the phones of the uxfor were collapsed. Let's be sensible, this country is sensible! The peasants of the village are not ignorant, we are wise and we know what is right for us! , when there is a political leadership, when there is a determined, courageous and innovative leadership that talks about the future. [[Applause]] What we're tired of is that they tell us about a black, blue past.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u260	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. On the amendments, the amendments!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u261	We're staying with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u262	With the zeta. Well, I guess it'll be En Marea's.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u263	No, no, no, no. A point of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u264	A point of En Marea. What about the other one?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u265	It's to discuss it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u266	Ah! Because as you've already said, that's why I had my doubts. That's why. Okay. What about the comment on...? Fortunately, the governments of the Union... excuse me for a moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry! [[Mr. Vega Pérez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Vega, I'm sorry, I want to make a very important comment. Fortunately, the governments of the Union have nothing to do with frankism. Many of the people who were here had not been born yet, yet had not been born. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And she wasn't even born. [[Murmurs.]] You weren't even born. [[Murmurs.]] No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I mean, take it well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Take it well! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's go over there. [[Murmurs.]] Last proposal for today we are going to debate. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! That's it, the comment was made and it doesn't... I think we all know what we're saying. [[Murmurs.]] Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and six other Members, on the development and approval of an adult vaccination schedule
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u267	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u268	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's take an initiative today in this House on the development of an adult vaccination calendar, which we consider interesting for two reasons. The first of all — and most relevant — is because it is a matter of serious importance to public health, which is the same as saying that it is a matter of great importance to the health of all Greeks and all Greeks. And the second, because it was a commitment that was included in the election program of 2016 with which we won the elections; and to us, gentlemen, it seems very important to fulfill what we promise. We are talking about the importance of public health, because we must not forget that only a hundred years ago infectious diseases were the first cause of death in the world, even in developed countries. It is now estimated that, thanks to vaccinations, three million lives are saved worldwide. It was, of course, one of the great achievements of public health, along with sewerage and the positabilization of drinking water. The benefits of infant vaccines are well known and valued, as shown by the vaccine coverage achieved in Galicia and Spain. However, society is probably not yet very aware of the benefits that vaccines can provide to adults in certain risk groups or in certain age groups, and this despite the fact that at this time the public system is financing many adult vaccines. In the case of general population, for example, vaccination against tetanus and diphtheria; or in certain groups, such as vaccination offered to pregnant women to avoid cases of ferine cough or varicella, viral triple, hepatitis B, pneumococcal, among others, indicated in certain situations at a certain age. But coverage is not the desired ones, so many of the Greeks do not benefit from it in spite of their gratuity. Galicia exceeds 96% of its coverage in all vaccines in the first two years of age, but from there, the strength doses don't have that much follow-up. Despite that, as I said before, Galicia and Spain may assume vaccination data. According to the last health barometer, 91.9 % of people agree or agree with the effectiveness of vaccines to prevent diseases, above the national health system, 2-3 points above the rest of Spain. In the case of Galicia only 1.8 per cent is not in accordance with its effectiveness and in Galicia no one claims to be anything in accordance with the effectiveness of vaccines. However, there seems to be a current of distrust in Europe. And in the press last day we saw how experts — not politicians, lordships, or any other party — warned that the population is not aware of the danger. In a German newspaper, we could read: "What if, by an unexpected chance, the virus of the viral, the first and only extinct disease, would arise? Because everyone would run crazy for a vaccine — the head of the CSIC Virus and Vaccines Laboratory — responds. I would do so because the population would be aware of the danger and would use its safest value to combat it: vaccines. But, as this threat today is not seen, citizens, especially in the most developed countries, have lowered their guard, and have done so to the point where countries such as France, Italy or even Germany are dangerously close to the minimum rate of immunization. What is the result of all this? For the resurgence in Europe of forgotten diseases, such as polio, or controlled, such as measles, diphtheria or rubella, highly infectious." In fact — news of the other day — in Italy last May is forced to vaccinate children from 0 to 16 years and is mandatory for a royal decree. Because if you're seeing that we're leaving the vaccines and those diseases, we forget about them, but infectious diseases don't forget us. At the XXXV Congress of the European Society of Paediatric Infectology, of last May, Mariagrazia Pizza, an expert within the world of vaccines — which was the first woman to discover the vaccines of ferinous cough and meningococcal B — was also asked about this subject, by this fever anti-activine. And he replied bluntly that if there are diseases you don't know, it's because there's already been someone who's been vaccinated before, and he warned that this is a serious matter, that you can't forget. The truth is that there are those who, when they are free from disease, believe that there is no such thing. Plotkin, another of the most relevant vaccinologists worldwide — who was the discoverer of rubella vaccine in the 1960s — says: "It is very important that all countries continue to promote vaccination campaigns, as it has been shown that when coverage rates descend, diseases that had been relegated or even virtually eradicated again." This, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious public health problem that we must take into account, we must not go back. From the People's Group, of course, we don't want to go back, what we want is a more efficient and better-prepared public health for the future. And it's clear the government's bet on prevention, because, in fact, in Galicia we were pioneers at the state level in incorporating the pneumococcal vaccine and we also managed to get the central government to include the varicella vaccine in the children's calendar. As I said at the beginning of my intervention, we did what we promised. And, with regard to vaccines, we had three commitments with the Greek citizenship: to implement the approved child vaccination calendar for 2017, which came into force on January 1st and is being applied without any incidence. The second is to boost adult vaccination by developing a vaccine calendar to ensure the greatest and best possible protection, which is the object of this initiative. And the third was offering the use of new technologies with a specific application for mobile devices that facilitates reminders and access to vaccination data in children and children and adults. And on this third point, which is what we have yet to do, an initiative has been taken in this Parliament in this regard. So we did it because we think it is of great interest to put in place initiatives that improve information on available vaccines and their advantages, especially among those who can benefit. In this sense, the preparation and approval of a vaccination schedule for the adult person can contribute to the knowledge of the indications and benefits for both professionals and citizens, because it is true that, as well as the vaccines funded for children and children are well known, it is not the same for adults. People sometimes don't know that there are vaccines funded for them, so it seems to us to bring this non-law proposal that urges the Galician Union to develop and approve a vaccination schedule for adults, and we hope you will count on the majority support of this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u271	Thank you, President. When I read this initiative, I thought it was one of those self-comprehensive, but if it's to carry out your election program, then we've talked about something else, of course! Then we talk about serious things. At the BNG we also wager for strict health and that improves the quality of life and the quality of health of the Greeks and the Greeks. It is evidence that the theme that today brings here the People's Party from a vaccination calendar in adults is a theme that is, so to speak, fashionable, a subject that is subject to analysis in various forums, and in some autonomous communities they have been having it for a few years. The BNG seems good to us to exist, and I suppose the proposal — which is really very generic — is what you will be referring to — is that which is envisaged in a timetable of dates, doses and so on. We agree that establishing an adult vaccination schedule is good. There is evidence that there is a concept of vaccination in childhood, up to the age of fourteen, essentially linked to the age at which they reach the pediatrician — when there is, soon will be an exception for children and children to have a pediatrician — and of course it seems right to us that there is a vaccination schedule of continuity, because we believe that one cannot bet on by a culture of vaccination and that there is no continuity. The BNG, in any case, tabled an amendment to the effect that in the request to the Galician Parliament for the preparation and approval of a vaccination schedule, the People's Party says for adults, and we present an amendment saying that it is a universal calendar, including adult vaccination, but that all necessary actions are carried out to ensure permanent and free universal access to vaccines. Why do we present this amendment? Because if it's true that there has always been a breakdown, in recent years this is becoming a constant, and in the BNG we are concerned that in the vaccine calendar it is the pharmaceuticals that decide, and not the professionals, those who establish what ages and doses must be established. We are finding that in recent years this situation has become a bit of a rule. I'm going to refer to some of the questions. The most serious thing is that children and children who had to receive the fifth dose of feral cough at the age of six — it is established in the vaccination schedule that at six years they have to receive that dose of memory — have been waiting since May 2015 without being supplied — i.e. two years without being supplied — because the company that has the patent and produces it has stopped producing it or has not produced it in sufficient quantity; in any case, we are talking about a problem. We found that from this year 2017 more than 60,000 children and children will have to go back to work; that is, those who were born in 2009, 2010 and 2011 will have to go vaccinating them, in addition to keeping them in pregnant women, who were the priority segment, and those who are going to meet this age. The same thing happened with the varicella, which was removed from the calendar in 2013, and then even in 2014 from the shops; and as there was a point of view, it had to be restored to the calendar. The pneumococco, known as Prevenar, in 2012 the Ministry also agreed to withdraw it, and then in 2016 he had to put it back on. We are concerned about the whole problem arising from the approval in 2014 of the hepatitis C vaccine. After that approval, it turns out that it is authorised and there are no doses available in the stores. We watched all that pilgrimage to Portugal and found it in Andorra. Many mothers and parents, in response to the recommendation of the Spanish Association of Pediatrics and a very important part of pediatricians, who recommended their administration, didn't know what to do and they were going to look for it in Portugal, with the risks that this entails and that we've already analyzed here. So it seems to us that these issues should not be repeated. It seems to us that there is a universal calendar, where they are from scratch until the person dies and where they contemplate that mandatory dose and those other derived from the exit to countries where there are certain risks. That it is established, but that it is guaranteed that this calendar can be fulfilled, that it is not a Guadiana who appears and disappears. In addition to ensuring their dispensation is free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u273	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. This initiative is no doubt surprising. On 20 March 2017 there is a news in the Vigo Lighthouse where the Council — Sergas — advances that will focus on raising awareness among risk groups and that from the second half of the year it plans to give impetus to the adult's vaccination calendar. March 20 is news in the media. A week later the initiative is registered. I guess they don't have good communication with the Council and an initiative was registered for something that was already being done. They pretended to do a little symphonic orchestra about the fact and left him a little bit like Manolo from the blowjob rather than symphonic orchestra. [[Applause]] In any case, the initiative is fine, it's a reasonable subject, and I also thank the conciliatory tone you always have, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. We believe that it is reasonable and can be supported. It seems a little inconcrete to us, but I insist on tone. Given today's, today you've learned a new word here and they call it populist everyone now. Given the quality of your initiatives recently in health care, populists don't, but a little vague if I dare call them, eh!, a little vague yes. Population — allow me to point it out — is to denigrate politics by saying: experts and non-political. The work of politicians is also to advise and therefore to know about the issues. Let's see if the base of "experts and not politicians" is going to end up asking -- like you dare -- "make yourself like me and not get involved in politics." I know there were no Frankish governments, but I can quote, I suppose. I'm saying it because they look like arguments. We are in favour of vaccination and we are in favour of compulsory child vaccination. We think it's a measure we have to be to. It is true that in order to force vaccines, and in order for the vaccine calendar to be properly applied, vaccines must be available, as if, for example, you agreed here in this Parliament that you had included, if you had accepted and worked on improving the vaccine of Meninxite B, which is still unavailable and that parents and mothers have to go to other places. Or like the temporary vacuum in cases like diphtheria. It is also true that we are in favour of spreading and campaigns of awareness. It's important, for example — the Council is working on it — to create an App to warn about vaccine needs. But never forget that an app for people over the age of seventy, to remember some vaccine like the flu, it's okay, but there are people over the age of seventy who will end up having to take out a computer graduate and eventually they won't have doctors to go get the vaccines. Let's not lose the sense of what health is. I'm telling you, the Council is already working on this in case you bring it here as an initiative. I'll let you know they're working on it. You don't have to bring it in. In any case, the initiative is somewhat vague. That is certainly ten words of initiative. The part of "the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union" is common at all, the rest is ten words. I'm in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u274	Silence, please, silence. Now we're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u275	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u276	It's already running out. It's about what we all behave, it's not that much left. It's not for you to finish, no. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u277	Whenever anyone talks from there, it's everyone's fault.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u278	I'm trying not to bother anyone. Just listen to me. Quiet, quiet! Mrs. Romero, be quiet, please. Let's not complicate the afternoon now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u279	What you're dealing with, Mr. President, we all know. What we ask is that you exercise as president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u281	Anyway, it's hard. Yes, it's very complicated. We're going to try to keep the part of education that belongs to us, and the others, because... I know, it's a very difficult thing for him to understand, but we keep education. [[Applause]] In any event, the initiative calls for development and approval. We insist that it's a bit vague, because the truth is, if it's already done, we hope it's already elaborate, because if you're applying a measure that's not yet drawn up, it's a little inconcretion. We hope it is elaborate and, of course, we are in favour. That's why we tabled an amendment, to be a little more concrete, which basically requires three things. First of all, ask to set a date. It would be flexible, although it's possible three months. That there is an estimate of economic cost; to be efficient, I say. And, in any case, a copy of the prepared document is provided. It's important too. We've been trying to implement the initiatives. So we didn't diminish anyone's work, but we tried to implement it. We don't stay there, insulting the parliamentarians who come out to talk. That's why we're waiting for the amendment to decide on our vote, although I want to transmit, Mr. President, that it's not necessary anyway. Yesterday I was in a crowd of mayors of the People's Party who said that no amendments and no motions were voted, and that if they were voted it was because he wanted them. The mayor of Valga said so. In any case, I'd ask them to vote on the motions, because if the amendments and the motions are not voted on, you don't know what is being amended. So, in any case, we're waiting for the amendment to be positioned, believing it contributes to improving the motion if it's considered, then we'll manifest it. And I am grateful for the initiatives, especially because there are some Members who talk more when I speak here than in the committee when it comes to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u282	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u283	Thank you, President. Vaccines, of course, are very relevant in preventive health, and it's true that there is better general welcome in children's population than in adults, or that in the risk population; so exactly the vaccine campaigns and also the investment in preventive health is very important. We can agree on other things, Mrs Vispo, but in this case we can't give you the reason. The investment in preventive health, in promotion and prevention, in the case of the Galician Union has been decreasing since 2009. In fact, it is one of the reasons we have repeatedly denounced in this House: 14,83% in nominal terms and 24,23% in real terms; that is, almost a quarter of what the Government of the Union invests in the prevention and promotion of health in that programme 414. That's why we understand it's so important to speak in this House. And in the case of the German vaccination program, something quite striking happens. From 2009 to 2015, the German Government has been lowering its investment, something that this honourable Member has always felt very worrying, yet the justification that was usually given to us in the appearances was that the centralized purchase was lowering prices and that is why it was coming down. However, both in the 2016 exercise and in the 2017 exercise this expenditure increased without a clear explanation. We asked him again this year too in the presence of budgets and there was no very obvious or very clear explanation, because there was also no increase in new vaccines that justified the nominal increase in the budget that was in these two years. So things, we also don't know how it affected investment and calendars the absence of the TPA or TD vaccine, which actually didn't affect our community alone and forced to modify the calendars both in adults and in healthy children and that they just returned recently, because laboratories are already providing vaccines. I suppose this calendar refund also makes it easier for you to bring this initiative here today. We also understand the usefulness of this debate, which is the utility of advertising. Not so much from the Government, as sometimes, because we have on occasion complained about initiatives brought here that do not propose anything concrete. We understand that the intention to bring it here today is simply to give you publicity to the vaccination calendar so that you can listen to people, because, as you have already said here, the Health Council itself warned you in March and you literally transferred what the Counsellor said: that coverage in adults and adults was not satisfactory and that is why — according to the literal words of the council itself — they planned to give you a boost to that adult vaccination calendar, so that you could get better acquainted with it, starting in the second half of the year. So it's not a new initiative either. What if it caught my eye — and the truth was waiting for your intervention — was that the Council had talked about kicking off the vaccination schedule and the People's Group proposed the elaboration and approval of a vaccination schedule as if it did not exist, as if there were no guidelines. I don't know if what they're talking about is the schematic design; that is, taking all the patterns that are already there and making a summary, because currently the Health Council has general guidelines for risk groups and some guidelines for adults, even guidelines — whether they'd come in here or not because they didn't specify it — from when people go out to some country where some specific vaccine is needed. There is therefore no concrete proposal in the initiative. It's an initiative that talks about freeness. I also wanted to remember here the existence of Royal Decree 16/2012, and we would also like to know if there is any sort of planning about it. Because it is also true that one of the characteristics of prevention and health promotion, and therefore of the application of vaccines to the global population, is the very universality and the need for the general population to be vaccinated. But it's just that right now there are people who are out of the healthcare system, so that would be interesting too. We don't have any greater problem with the initiative in general, but we don't know what the proposal is. And, I mean, there's nothing concrete beyond what the council itself announced in March. So in guiding what is the vote, we'd like to know what is concrete, because there's really nothing about whether you're going to change those guidelines, whether you're going to follow the guidelines of the Spanish Society of Preventive Medicine or what the real proposal is. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first thing I want to say is to thank the tone of the speeches of the ladies and gentlemen who preceded me in speaking and to clarify to Mr Torrado that you have spent a lot of your time not talking about the initiative, but to talk about whether you work a lot or whether you work little. Anyway, he gave us lessons like we're already used to receiving, and we thank him for the lessons, but we'll keep working on how we're working. [[Applause]] As I said at the outset, the topic of the vaccination calendar is precisely, Mrs Solla, to bring this initiative to make an adult calendar as there is — Mrs Prado said — into other autonomous communities and also to give you publicity. It's not bad, it's not bad that the Galicians and the Greeks listen from here, because we have a powerful speaker, the important speaker of vaccination, who also hear that in Galicia we have a fantastic childhood vaccination calendar and now we want to do the same and be an example — as was for the rest of Spain in the children's vaccination calendar — in the adult vaccination calendar. Of course, the concept of universality that you have I don't share, because vaccines cannot be universal; vaccines have specific management patterns and are for specific risk groups. You won't want us to vaccinate a varicella pregnancy. I know it's healthy and you won't think that barbarity. But vaccines cannot be universal. And, of course, in Galicia, I assure you that there is no Greek or Welsh outside the health system. Assistance in Galicia is universal and free for everyone. I say and I repeat to you that I am really proud of the health we have in Galicia and I am proud of the health we have in Spain, because The Lancet magazine, a prestigious magazine, nothing suspicious, one of the oldest medical journals, puts us in a fourth place worldwide. Health care in Spain is in a fourth place worldwide, above France, above Germany, above the United States. I share that fourth position with Sweden, Norway, Australia and Finland, which you put so many times as an example in the countries of the north. For once we are proud of the health we have, which occupies the fourth position worldwide. [[Applause]] As experts say, we should not lower our guard, which is the most important on the subject of vaccination. And with regard to the amendments, thank you for the amendment that the Socialist Party, the Socialist Group of Galicia, presented. We think it's an interesting amendment. We appreciate your contribution so that this calendar is ready within three months and an estimate of the economic cost is contained. Because we, Mr. Torrado, against what you say, are in favour of transparency, so we have no problem with the economic cost. BNG's amendment, Mrs. Prado, I'd like to understand it, but I didn't understand it, really. And I didn't understand it because you asked for universality in vaccines, and I already told Mrs. Solla that vaccines can't be universal. It is given according to different variables: age, estimation of risk groups, and indications and patterns of administration are not the same for all. There are vaccines that are recommended in one case and not in another, in which they are contraindicated. So I know the word universality likes it, but in case of vaccines I don't see it. As far as freeness is concerned, of course the vaccines contained in the children's vaccination calendar and next to adults are free. If you want, we can talk about it and we can try to compromise something, but we don't understand your amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u287	Just to finish, Mr President — I am finished — to make it clear to Mr Torrado that we do not call them populists. The populists said his spokesman when he said that supporting an investigation commission was easy populism. You supported that investigation commission today, so these are words from your spokesman, they're not words from our group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-06-06-DSPG031.u288	Thank you. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
