ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u1	Good morning. Before we begin, I would like to comment that they excuse their assistance to the full three honourable Members who are part of the Intergroup of Peace and Freedom for the Saharawi people; therefore they will not be in this plenary today. And neither will Mr. Raúl Fernández Fernández, still convalescent. And we start with the questions to the president. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the strategy that will drive the Government of Galicia to confront the impact of the decisions of the Central Government to Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u2	Mrs. Pontón, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u3	Good morning. Allow me, Mr. Feijóo, to show you a document. It's a bill of light. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo shows a document.]] This bill becomes an agony for thousands of people. There are 145,000 people to pay for this bill. It's like climbing Everest. We have half a million Galicians who can't lock up the heating in a country where we're exporting electricity to the ladder, but, of course, you can afford to veto a Greek electric tariff because I'm sure there's no problem with paying the bills in Monte Pio. [[Applause]] But this is not the only unfair bill, ask the more than 20,000 Greeks and Greeks to pay $300,000 in fees every day, which will start the year by paying 30,000 euros more to a concessionaire — 30,000 euros more every day — which already has one of the most expensive fees in the state. And I have to tell you: your obsession, Mr Feijóo, for falling friendly in Madrid is leading us to political irrelevance. And this translates into grievances and discrimination and bills and more bills that end up paying the Greeks and the Greeks. But from Madrid Mr. Montoro is already preparing us another bill, this most serious one, because it affects the financing system that has already cost us a million. And the question is whether in the future financing model the state will pay the historical debt it has with Galicia or whether we have to keep paying. Because, look, this system is unfair. In just five years, Galicia drags a deficit of more than €10,000 million on the financing of health, education and social protection. And the problem isn't that there are no resources, it's how they're distributed. In fact, during the years of the crisis, Galicia's funding dropped by about 9.3%, while the collection rose by 30%, and you're responsible for this situation because you signed a financing system knowing it was harmful to our country. In any case, the important thing is the future and know that it will defend the Union in such an important matter. And I have to tell you too, Mr. Feijóo, that the strategy of criticizing everyone to apologize to Rajoy has only one benefit, which is Rajoy. And right now, in terms of funding, the only meeting that interests this country is with the president of the state, a bilateral Galicia-State meeting, a negotiation of you, equally, to defend a just funding system for our country. I think it's nice for you to go to Oviedo, take a few photos and sign all the protocols you want. But we already know what the result of this kind of summit is. We just saw him with the exclusion of the Atlantic corridor, the financing, which you told us was going to be a reality as soon as possible. In any case, Mr. Feijóo, the real negotiation is with the State and it won't be done in Oviedo. That is why we asked you, Mr Feijóo, whether you are going to allow Galicia to continue to add to the charges, discrimination, let the Greeks and the Greeks pay more bills or will start to defend Galicia's interest first in the debate on the new financing model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know exactly what to choose; I'm going to try to answer it with the greatest respect to everything you've been saying here. Look, we always defend consumers, and in Galicia every time there's an abuse, an alleged abuse, an electrical company, we're next to the consumers. We opened 2,400 files to power companies and sanctioned them with 23.8 million euros. When you ruled, nine files were opened and 97,000 euros were sanctioned. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that consumers are much better with us than with you. We're also from the few public administrations that are working on the electric ticket, and there are 12,000 homes served since 2014. I don't know any proposals in this direction of the municipalities where BNG governs, but I know that this autonomous government is helping the Greek consumers, firstly, in the face of possible abuses of electricity and, secondly, financing more than 12,000 homes so they can get to pay for the receipt of light. Among the costs of the electricity system in Galicia, 1,350 million, and what we pay the Greek consumers, 800 million, there is a net difference in favour of Galicia of 308 million euros. We will continue to defend Galicia, Mrs Pontón, of course, on the subjects that we are interested in. If we put forward your proposals, what we're going to do is neither defend consumers nor improve the electric ticket of the Greek homes. He's also talking about concessions... Sorry, about the highway dealership. It's true that you didn't ask for the transfer of the motorway, it's in the Journal of Sessions, and every time I tell you this, you're upset. But in the 2007 Sessions Journal, when you were ruling in Madrid with the socialists, you didn't even dare ask for the transfer of the highway. But not only that, Mrs. Pontón, within his political biography, is himself at the convention — ruinous for the Greeks, fantastic for the dealership — through which we paid the Greeks 50% of the lifting of the beaches of Barcala and Rande. A nationalist in favor of paying the Central Government 50% of the lifting of a fee, of a highway, of the competence of the Central Government? Mrs. Pontón, there's a big difference between you and us again: we haven't paid the central government for the central government's highways, and thanks to that, we've already saved 7 million euros every year; that is, 400 million euros up to 2048. They don't defend electric consumers, they don't defend consumers, they don't defend consumers, they use the Atlantic highway, they don't ask for the transfer of the Atlantic highway. In funding you're offering me something bad for Galicia. There is not a single professor of economics or public estate who agrees with the coupon proposal of BNG, not one! At least, they say we lose EUR 1 billion each year. Mrs. Pontón, while for you the leader in the field of finance may be Mr. Puigdemont; for us, no. And that's why we continue to pose the defence of the Greek interests, whether they're electric consumers, whether they're users of the highway or we're the whole of the Greek people. Look, Your Honor, I'm not criticizing anyone, I'm defending Galician interests, and when some leader from some autonomous community tells the Greeks not only we lend them money, we not only grant them the interests of debt, but we tell them that they don't have to pay the debt, who are we defending?, the Greeks or the nationalist ideological approaches?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u7	Your Honor, you are left with ideologies that go against the country and you are in favour of working for the country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u9	Look, Mr. Feijóo, you come here with an argumentary that it's something like this already like a sort of striped disk, because it repeats the same lies over and over again, I suppose with the hope that at some point they will become reality; but a repeated lie a thousand times remains a lie, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And what's obvious is that the People's Party is defending the privileges of electricity, and you come here with patches to justify you just vetoing that this country defends a lower rate for businesses and families, because it's not fair that, as electricity producers, we have absolutely no benefit. You defend the electricity; I defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and righteousness with this country. [[Applause]] And look, the proposed AP-9 transfer law I don't think it has a single line written by you, and that was a proposal that put BNG on the table; by the way, the only political force that is debating in all areas to raise a shameful veto on an initiative that we approved in this Parliament. You all did was applaud, Mr. Feijóo, when Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Ana Pastor took over this initiative. Anyway, look, do you know what you have in your biography? To be an accomplice of a continuous climb and continue to pay and to be an accomplice now that Mr. Rajoy is going to raise us by 3% more the fees next year; higher rates in one of the countries that has the lowest wages. That's your contribution, Mr. Feijóo. Because you can't tell us that there's a savings in peas, when next year, at least, the Greeks and the Greeks are going to pay five million euros more to a dealership who has absolutely scandalous benefits. And look, you're still not telling us what's important to this country's future, and that's what your proposal for funding is. I have to tell you: it seems to me a political scandal that at this time your government has not sent to this House a paper or an official document defending a model of financing just for Galicia; that we don't even know a study. Do you know what's all there is? The president of the board saying that Galicia has no capacity, that Galicia is already very well with this system and that we are also dependent because we really depend on State funding and that it is because of what we have survived. I think that's the worst portrait you can make yourself and the biggest amendment to your government management. Look, we trust this country, and of course we defend a proposal that trusts Galicia's full capacity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u11	...to manage our resources and to have an adapted taxation. But what is serious, Mr. Feijóo, is that no one knows what you stand for. We know that he criticizes everyone, probably because they leave him in evidence, because, indeed, others lead, while you operate with an absolutely complicated mindset with Mr. Rajoy, absolutely compounded with Mr. Rajoy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u12	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u13	...and instead of defending Galicia's interest, because he's actually defending Mr. Rajoy's interests; but don't confuse himself, Rajoy isn't Galicia's and Galicia deserves a president who defends our interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u14	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u15	...and not that it makes us lose again in the funding system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u17	Indeed, Mrs. Pontón, a constantly widespread lie will never become true. And that's why, when you don't open files to electricity and don't defend consumers, they're now worried that the People's Party will open files to electricity and defend consumers. When you didn't put a euro to get to the end of the month on the electric receipts, now 12,000 Greek families, at least, are having help to get to the end of the month on the electric ticket, actually. When you, in the wind competition, didn't ask for a euro from companies and it turns out that we, with the wind cannon, raised 160 million euros that paid the electricity, that's when, in fact, lies don't translate into truth. Your Honor, we are feeling the wind canon of 160 million euros, which you condemned to power companies. [[Applause]] Your Honor, when you were ruling in Madrid, they said that as much as you could aspire to Galicia was 8% of the state's infrastructure investments. Now that we have 11 percent, you think it's an aggravation. 8% nationalist is wonderful, 11% of the People's Party is an aggravating. Do you realize, Mrs. Ponton, how no one believes her? Your Honor, on the issue of fees, do you know how much the fees went up when you were ruling in a coalition with the Socialist Party? Check the rate. With a difference, Your Honor, the fees now rise because we have to pay 300 million euros in increases in works on the highway. By the way, an agreement in which the Socialist Party once again has subscribed to the concessionaire. Mrs. Pontón, you said yes — and we are not going to forget — to pay by the year 2048 with money from the Greeks the decrease in the rate in Rande and Barcala. We said no, and that's why we Greek now save 400 million euros until the year 2048. Mrs. Pontón, these are the data, and the data means that you, at least, are a very surprising force. Paying for a non-Joint highway gives them no credibility in skills management, Mrs. Pontón, none. Paying for a highway that is state government gives them no credibility in managing Galician interests. [[Murmurs.]] And that's why I'm reasonably satisfied that among all of you -- I'm sure you've helped yourself -- since this year we haven't paid again for what's not ours. The worst damage to Galicia would be to apply nationalist criteria in financing. Listen to what I just said: the worst damage to Galicia would be to apply the nationalist criteria in funding. Mrs. Pontón, do you really believe in that tale of tax balances? Besides being a story, they don't even count. Are you really in line with Mr. Puigdemont's proposals regarding tax balances? [[Murmurs.]] Are you sure you want to take our hair just by maintaining your ideology, which, in the matter of funding, is a nonsense for Galician interests? Mrs. Pontón, remind me of those four years of intelligent cooperation, when you were ruling with the BNG, sorry, with the Socialist Party here and in Madrid. They remember "intelligent cooperation." What about intelligent cooperation, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u19	Look, at nothing; nothing was achieved; in disappointment. How many expectations did you have, if the AVE were to arrive in 2012? [[Murmurs.]] And besides in nothing and in disappointment, in sacrifice. You left a hole of 2,200 million euros that the Greeks, in times of crisis and recession, had to pay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u20	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u21	Mrs. Pontón, I assure you that the nationalist ideas of the BNG regarding Galicia are as if you worked for other communities, not for Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have an error in the system once more. We're waiting to see if it's solved. So I can't control time from here. The only solution is that we control through... the system has fallen, but I didn't pull it off... so, we'll manually control it from here until it's fixed. [[Laughter]] No, calm down, that, in that sense, there will be no problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Question by Dr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Government of Galicia regarding the efforts of the central government in relation to the drive of the infrastructures in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u23	Mr. Fernández Leiceaga, whenever you like. You're not? It must be part of the problem too. [[Murmurs.]] We're trying to solve it, because I don't think any other microphones here will work. [[Pause.]] The only solution is to speak from the rostrum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President won't run the microphone either. They'd have to ask and answer from the rostrum. It's the only alternative until I fix it. If it seems to you... do you agree to reply from here? What are we going to do! [[Assentment.]] You have to have alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u24	Good morning. It's the problem of direct, it's all right. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, political forecasts seem to be bringing wind from the Meseta. You, in our opinion -- we told you some time ago -- are not counting on the political decisions of Mariano Rajoy's Government, and that's a problem for Galicia. We're talking about the AP-9 beaches. They rise from January 1 over the IPC in a two-decade cumulative process that will lead to a significant increase in the fees paid by citizens of Galicia, and we have already warned of this a few months ago, and we even put forward a proposal for a resolution that was voted against by the Popular Parliamentary Group. The link between fees and works was an extraordinary procedure of 2011, at the worst moment of the crisis, which was subsequently validated in 2012 already with Ana Pastor of Minister, who also rose the VAT of highways from 18% to 21%, and also eliminated a 7% bonus that came from behind. We can understand it by the situation, by the set that was there at that time. And I don't want to look at the past, it's not about putting guilt, it's about: how do we solve this? Let's look to the future, let's solve the problem. Today, that we are leaving the crisis and that there is more public resources available to all administrations, we can do it differently, and I propose that we do it differently and that it be the Ministry who takes on the cost of the works that give rise to the fees in a concentrated manner in one or two exercises or either assuming a bonus corresponding to that increase until the end of the concession. In the last year, in 2016, the Fomento Group spent only 63 million in Galicia, 4% of Spain's total; 4% — the Fomento Group. And the general state administration set spent only 500 million. To set an example, in the last year of that very evil government of Zapatero, it was 1,555 million euros. So there must be budgetary leave to be able to deal with this issue. But it seems even more amazing what's going on with the freight rail corridor. You signed a protocol with Castela-León and Asturias in favor of connecting the Greek ports and the Cantabrian ports with this corridor that we like. We agree with this, we agree with all the groups and we have voted for it here. And what did Development say at that time—she translated into Greek, but almost textually or textually—?: "The Ministry works to include itineraries from the north-west of Spain and its ports in the Atlantic corridor from the moment the European Commission starts work on the elaboration of the new regulation -2018—". Just a month later, the same ministry takes another note, after interviewing the minister with a Community official, saying that it recalls that the current RTET regulation determined that the review should be made in 2023 and that the decision would be in 2027. And this takes us to the programming period 2028-2034 and waiting at least 20 years to solve this problem. The Ministry isn't telling us the truth. The funding for the connecting infrastructure of the ports of Greece has no European impediment, it has no European impediment, it depends only on the will of the Government of Mariano Rajoy and in part on his...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u26	...while the minister is activating the connection of the Basque ports to the central rail network and is connecting the ports of Cantabria by road with the Basque Country. It's absolutely unacceptable, it's a contempt for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u28	And my question is clear: what do you intend to do to solve this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u29	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. We've already fixed the system. Then answer the president from the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I would like to convey to you, on behalf of the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, the grief for the death of Manuel Marín, Socialist, President of Congress and one of the most distinguished politicians in the integration of Spain into the European Union. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, as I have told you on one occasion, it is not appropriate that the only political position of you should be against everything the Galician Union says. No, I don't think he's smart. I don't know if you're thinking about it in the interests of the Greeks, but listening to him today about the beach and talking about the Atlantic corridor gives me the feeling he's doing it to defend certain fellows of his party. But I don't think he deserves a lot of defense, because here we are to defend Galicia, not to defend the comrades of his party. Look, the Socialist Party signed two agreements with the concessionaire in 2006 and 2011. In 2006, you were ruling in Madrid and here, they signed an agreement — I was commenting on the BNG spokesperson — for Galicia to pay 50% of Rande's and Barcala's peas until 2048. But not only that, but that, in addition, they did not set limits on that payment, and even more, they suggested that they could lower the fees, and it turns out that nothing more and nothing less than what we had to pay — because the fees were increased — was 125% more than what we had paid before. Mr. Leiceaga, the first ruinous agreement for Galician interests and very interesting for the concessionaire. The second agreement you made with the concessionaire is nothing more and nothing less — it is in the Official State Bulletin, Mr. Leicega — in 2011, where all the Greeks have to pay 1% more cumulative of the fares of the highway in the next 20 years. I don't know if you've heard me: 1% cumulative of all the beaches over the next 20 years. Do you know when they signed this deal with the dealership? At 48 hours of voting in the general elections, or exactly on November 18, and we voted on the 20th. Why are you in such a hurry, Mr. Leicega? You say no, that this can be solved, but look, if it's already November 23, when you vote... Look, let me read the Vigo Lighthouse: "The agreement to extend the AP-9 funds the works with a 1% increase of toll plus the IPC for twenty years." The voice of Galicia: "Fomento will rise the toll of the whole AP-9 to expand Rande and Santiago for twenty years." To what do you obey these two agreements, Mr. Leicega?, to what do you obey? Do you think it's normal to make this kind of arrangement 48 hours from voting in a general election? And now it turns out that those responsible are the ones who come behind. Mr. Leicega, about the corridor, do you really come here to tell me about the Atlantic corridor, when the Atlantic corridor — that is, Galicia isn't in the corridor — has it been agreed by you in 2010 in Europe? And now he comes to hold the governments behind him because you didn't include the corridor within the Trans-European Transport Network. And what's more serious is that they didn't even include southern Galicia within the basic transport network, and Vigo was out of the basic transport network.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u32	Mr. Leicega, but why don't you defend Galicia's interests and stop defending Galicia's ruinous ideas that you signed your party through a ministry? Mr. Leicega, I'm convinced you don't know all this information because, if you know it, I'm sure it would dull your question. Now that you know it, Mr. Leicega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u33	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u34	What are we doing is what would you do if you were here? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u36	Yes, to me what makes my point, Mr. Feijóo, is that when you have no solution, you talk about the past, but I'm not interested in talking about the past, I'm interested in talking about solving the problems of the Greeks. Look, the AP-9 thing. In fact, as you say, it was assumed by a socialist minister that protocol, but it turns out it should be difficult to do it differently when in 2012 Mrs. Ana Pastor does not only do that, but she rises more to do other things. And I'm not responsible for that, I'm saying: let's solve it, let's look forward to it. [[Applause]] The Ministry of Development has resources to connect the Basque ports with the rail freight corridor. The General Administration of the State has resources to improve the Basque dome. Hey, let's put some of these resources to fund Rande's enlargement works and eliminate the rise of the toll to the Greeks. I'm making an offer looking to the future, knowing that's where we should match. I'm not criticizing you, I'm not even asking you to put those hundreds of millions in the board of Galicia. Let's agree and call the Ministry. And, in relation to the northwest freight corridor, you do this, this is the map of the year 2011 and here you see that Galicia is connected to the basic freight network; in 2012, it appears connected again Galicia; in 2013, it does what happens, it is not, — year 2013—. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga shows some documents.]] [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga shows another document.]] In 2013 the president of the Government of Spain was Mariano Rajoy, the Minister of Development was Ana Pastor and the President of the Board was you. This is what happens with the European Union's official documents over that time. But neither do I want to talk about the past, I want to solve the problems, and I'm asking you to agree to solve the problems. Do you know what Mr De Grandis, spokesperson for the Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport of the European Union, is telling us? That the European Commission should give priority to the Monforte-Palencia connection. And now I'm going to read textually: "...if the official request for the process to be launched must start from the Spanish Government in the first instance, even from the Galician Union" —textual. The European Commission says: the problem is in the Spanish Government and the Galician Union, and you come here to tell me about what happened a few years ago. Let's agree, let's solve the problem, and if you don't have enough strength...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u38	...count with the groups of Parliament who want to support it in order to strengthen Galicia's position. If I'm holding your hand, and even when you're holding your hand, what you want is to put yourself in an impossible position that completely disfigures what my position is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u40	Are you willing to fight for this issue?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u42	Are you willing to fight for Galician infrastructure?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u43	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u44	That's the question, Mr. Noñez Feijóo, you told me about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u45	Thank you. Close, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u46	Mr. Leicega, how am I not willing to fight? I don't do anything else every day, I can assure you, but that doesn't mean that I'm not willing to explain to the Greeks what situation we are in right now. I said you signed two agreements with the dealership; the first one, making Galicia pay what she didn't have to pay. Solution: 400 million euros saved, thanks to the fact that we're fighting for the Greek infrastructure, and we're no longer paying for it. And the second agreement — which I reported — 48 hours before voting in a general election. It's just that if you could read the agreement, Mr. Leicega, you'd smile. Look, you've agreed with the concessionaire 250 million euros to pay in fees for the work they've done, 3 million euros a year for maintenance and apply a negative condition to traffic derived from the price hike, which also compensated for it. And look at the data!, you signed 8% of fixed interests. Interest is now less than 1.5%, and you pay 8% fixed interest to the dealership in the next 20 years. And you come here and say you want to help me. Mr. Leicega, I thank you very much, but, in order to get a hand, you have to explain to the Greeks who put Galicia into this problem and in this lack of credibility, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] Why did you guarantee the concessionaire absolutely unabated interests? Why did you at a moment of high tension of interests pay a fixed interest rate of 8%, why did you, Mr. Leicega, do this 48 hours before you vote? Mr. Leicega, it's not fair to talk about the increase in rates by saying that: look, we've assumed a 9% public deficit. You left a public deficit that assumed Spain's intervention. And we had to go up the IVE, yes, to the highway, to all highways and to all Spaniards in any consumer material. But in 2009, the highway rose by 4.49% to the rate, and in 2007, by 3.73; that is, more than now. But, Mr. Leicega, why don't we really want to talk? You show me a map in 2011 where we have a connection with the corridor, when what was negotiated from the corridor was in 2010 and it came into force in 2013, and in 2010 you accepted that Europe had not considered the Atlantic corridor within the trans-European network. [[Mr. President of the Galician Union, Núñez Feijóo, displays a map.]] And now it turns out he's showing me a map before it comes into effect. But, Mr. Leicega, I find myself Galicia, and Galicia is not in the corridor as a trans-European network; it is that it is more — and I repeat it again — not Vigo either within its area, within the basic transport network. And we made it in 2013 that if it was included in the basic network of transport the railway The Coruña-Vigo-Ourense, and from there to the rest of Europe. Yes, Mr. Leicega, yes, yes. What can we do now? What we can do now is what we did. The Minister of Development, as soon as the debate has emerged, automatically calls and says: you have my commitment that this year 2018 we achieve or try to get funding to improve the basic network and thus make time to include it in the Trans-European Transport Network. That's what we should do, Mr. Leicega, and that's what we're doing. So, Mr. Leicega, I thank you for accepting that we are better managing the fees of highways than you, but what you cannot be, Mr. Leicega, is that you leave me this dead and now it turns out that the responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u48	...of the dead whatever the corpse receives. It doesn't make any sense, Your Honor. I can do things; miracles, no. What we did was to save 400 million euros to the Greeks; secondly, to say that in our view the agreement with the highway is an absolutely beneficial agreement for the highway and harmful to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u50	And what I keep repeating to you, Mr. Leicega, is that I always count on your tender hand, but, if we make a proper diagnosis of the situation, because, if we don't make a diagnosis, I'd rather tell you, Your Honor, about the truth. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. de In Marea, on the reasons for the outcome of the Galician Transport Infrastructure Policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u52	Whenever you like, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, I think the other day you went to the Ser Chain Awards Gala, and there you asked for me. Looks like I missed you, I missed you. Well, here I am, you've got me. I appreciate your concern and your interest. Do you know why he wasn't at the gala the other day? Because he was in Brussels. And what are you doing in Brussels? So by doing the work you don't do, working for the country, working for Galicia, explaining the need of the Atlantic freight corridor for our country as a key element of our economy. We have been explaining in the European Parliament, firstly, that this infrastructure is strategic, because it would, it does, our most attractive ports to be the point of reception of goods and entry point in Europe, because it makes it useful, makes it viable, the external ports of Coruña and Vigo, the external ports of Coruña and Ferrol and the ports of Coruña and Vigo, which have a spectacular specialisation — and would make them far more competitive, as would make the whole of our economy more competitive, reducing export costs and making, in addition, a basic railway infrastructure, which would attract new companies, which would create more employment— and finally, because it is the transport of the fastest and least polluting future. And we have been listening to the officials of the European Union, the officials of the European Commission, the Commissioner for Transport, who have confirmed to us what has already been transferred to the Ministry of Development and what you know or should know: that the Monforte-Palencia line is part of this basic network of commodities, which is integrated into the European Transport Network and is therefore eligible for immediate funding from the European Transport Programme. And that would be what would allow, at the moment, to include it in the Atlantic corridor. Therefore, if the Ministry wanted, if the Government wanted, if it wished, if De la Serna wanted, it could immediately claim the inclusion of these works, the financing of these works and, therefore, make that inclusion possible in the railway Atlantic corridor. But it seems that the minister doesn't want to and the meek president can't. Because this happened to you: they told him not in the ministry and he did, and once again, he behaved like a meek president who is, obeying orders, without arguing and without fighting them and without defending the interests of our country. It's a nonsense to wait until 2027 for those works, it's a nonsense to wait until 2027 for that inclusion in the Atlantic railway corridor, first of all, for the loss of opportunity that it means for our economy and our companies, and, secondly, because, if we don't already do those works, we won't have the capacity to be able to choose and be in that Atlantic railway corridor. We need to be able to load a 740-metre long train daily so that we can get into that railway Atlantic corridor, and we need to do already the works that allow us to adapt. And third, it is fundamental — because now there is money to do it, but it needs political will — you have to ask for it, and you have to ask for it by the Government of the State, you have to ask for it by the Government of your party. We are facing a political problem; it is not a legal problem or an economic problem, the political problem of Galicia right now in railway matters, as in the rest of the infrastructures, it has names and surnames: Alberto Núñez Feijóo; a lord who is unable to enforce his absolute majority in front of his own party. What's wrong with the companies that want to settle in our country and they don't have infrastructure, don't they hurt the viability of the Coruña and Vigo ports, don't they hurt the job that's no longer created, doesn't it hurt Galicia? No, you don't care about Galicia. They don't care about anything. In railway matters, as in all these matters, his policy has names and surnames: Alberto Núñez Feijóo, with "f" of failure. What are you going to do to cover up your failure, Mr. Núñez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u54	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. No, no; don't think I asked for you, eh! I said that, since I was the mayor of Anova in Santiago, whether it represented The Tides or not, and said yes. So you can be absolutely quiet, you were perfectly represented. Then we found his companion from Podemos and we also found a deputy who is in the back seats, and I saluted them, as is natural -- you see?, he just raised his hand -- although I don't know whether he's from his party or not. Because, exactly, you guys have what game it's about? But, finally, let's go on, sir... [[Applause]] Look, the truth is, you should travel a lot more to Brussels to realize, indeed, the importance of infrastructure, because you are talking about the question of failure in the transport infrastructure policy of the Union; that's your question. Look, in times of economic scarcity, we opened 200 new kilometres of high-performance routes, 67% more than when we arrived in the government. In times of extreme difficulty we are reducing traffic accidents by 20%. This is the first time that a government is considering ending — i.e. solving — all the accident concentration points in Galicia: 90 kilometers, 12 million euros; running. We're running 170 kilometers of pedestrian and cyclist trails to improve road safety. After companies wanted to earn more money from public transport and that you supported companies against the interests of the Greeks, we managed, despite giving up 600 public transport lines, to reduce the costs of public transport and that there was not a single day without public transport. We are running — take note — all intermodal stations simultaneously in Galicia despite the obstacles of some mayor of Podemos. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, we are with a metropolitan transport plan: 14 million tickets with exemptions and reductions from numerous families and frequent users, and nothing more and nothing less than Galicia has a free card for those under 19 years of age, so they don't pay for public transport; yes, urban transport in the municipalities of the Tide has to pay. So, Your Honor, that's the big difference. And, on the Atlantic corridor, in Ourense they don't actually pay; rule the PP, thank you very much for clarifying it. Look, ladies, thank you. [[Interruptions.]] Do you have Members in the group who want to be lovers of the truth? [[Murmurs.]] But look, as far as the corridor is concerned, I see you don't listen to Mr. Leicega. I came with that question and it didn't give him time to change it, but, well, that's your opinion. You say he went to Brussels. The Socialist Party and the PP were at the firm with Castela-León and Asturias to demand the Atlantic corridor to the Government of Spain. You were neither of the Tides, because, of course, they defend Galicia, and as they defend Galicia, they can never take on proposals from the Socialist Party of Galicia or the People's Party of Galicia. But as you realized in 2018... If you didn't have to travel to tell him that. Why didn't you ask me? Can we obtain funding in 2018 to improve the rail network and then enter the Trans-European Transport Network? The answer is yes, and that's why we're going to get funding to improve the rail transport network in Galicia. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, it's good that you go to Brussels, because it's very important to go and gain experience, I tell you with absolute cordiality. You, who haven't yet managed a public euro in your life, it's good to realize that there are decisions that depend on Brussels; neither the open assemblies nor the "Ti decides" nor the circles; in Brussels, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u57	Yes, unlike the People's Party, we manage, and we don't steal either. That's a little difference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u58	No, I'm sorry, I beg you to remove that expression. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry. Silence! I'm sorry, I'm sorry! I'm from the People's Party and I don't accept this expression, and these gentlemen here don't either. Or if I repeat that expression, or I have to withdraw it, and I suppose a call to order. You'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u59	In the case of Champion, members of the People's Party and with responsibilities of government were convicted of embezzlement of public funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u60	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Do you take away the expression you just said or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u61	Okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u62	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u63	I meant embezzlement of public funds. You, as a eater, well, but as a ruler, evil; evil, because very punctuating and little shovel. [[Murmurs.]] For the peak and for the comedy, well, but for the government, bad. A lot of peak and little shovel; rather no shovel; in matters of railway infrastructure, no shovel, zero shovel. You can talk a lot, some very funny pictures of your advisor to the rest of the people, a comedy, because you've already seen that you gave that meeting two months ago, in which the Ministry of Development told you that no, no, no, no. Why? Because you don't tell anything. And, of course, you're talking about parties. I'd like to know, and in Marea I'd like to know, whether Nuñez Feijóo and Iñigo de la Serna belong to the same party or to different parties, because, of course, you played a game at Iñigo de la Serna last year. He said, look, this trace for Ourense entrance, this way. And then, of course, he was pushed over the Serna's nest all the PP of Ourense; on, of course, and you knew it, and then you blew up the Serna's nest. What did he do with the Serna? Avenge yourself. And how did he get revenge? First of all, with the delay in the deadlines for AVE, then with the infrastructure budgets for 2018, then with the AP-9 and now with the railway corridor. Congratulations, that cockfight is costing all the Greeks and the common people to pay a very high toll on highways, but they're also paying us a very high toll on economics, business competitiveness and job creation. Galicia has a political and economic problem called Alberto Núñez Feijóo. That's Galicia's problem. You have no intention or intention that Galicia be included in the Atlantic railway corridor or the dog that steals it. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm going to give you three evidences: the first one — and I'm affidaviting it — you didn't ask the Íñigo de la Serna to include it for the year that comes from the financing of the works between the Monforte-Palencia plot, you didn't. If so, I object to the presentation by this House of the document dated before today's day where that claim is made, and then to explain to us what its failure was once it made that request. Second, if you had intended this to be so, you would be doing the adaptation works of the dry port of Monforte, which today is a gandara, is a polygon that is not a real dry port that can carry 740 meters long freight trains. And thirdly, you didn't do anything, you didn't ask for a reason, that we also checked in this House, because you lack the strategy of rail infrastructure, port strategy, industrial strategy, mobility strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u64	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u65	...has no politics at all. Infrastructure policies in Galicia have a name, the name of failure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u66	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u67	...of Alberto Núñez Feijóo; He made it with "f" of failure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u68	Thank you. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u69	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Villares, with all due respect, I don't really know what you're talking about, and I tell you with all due respect. He says we don't ask the Ministry of Development to include Galicia... look, the Minister of Development is coming in December, within a few weeks, and don't worry that you'll know exactly what Galicia is asking for, but what Galicia gets. Galicia is the second autonomous community with the largest investment in the State per capita, the second, EUR 307 per capita, and Spain's measure is EUR 184 per capita, 67% more per capita investment in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I know that now you, who are a global party, are proposing nothing more and nothing less: "The reopening of the Madrid-Burgos train line for the economic revitalization of southern Castilla y León is a priority and urgent matter." This is the old spokesperson who was sitting there, where you are, from En Marea, in Parliament. I know you're against VA in the morning and in the afternoon, and now it turns out that I hear you talking about the competitiveness of the economy, the importance of infrastructure, the importance of being in forums like Brussels... and I'm going to be more happy about this control session, Mr. Villares. You are no longer in independence, nor are you in disarray with the European Union, nor are you saying that the European Union is a set of merchants. You are no longer because of that, it is because of the competitiveness of the economy, which is to close all the major companies in Galicia according to their economic proposals. But since you don't want to talk about transport, Mr. Villares, why in the city of Coruña and in the city of Santiago, did the full not charge public transport to those under 19 and you still charge public transport to those under 19? Not only do they not accept people disagree with you but they don't even execute the whole accords of the Town Councils. Look, a lord of Oleiros, of Cambre or of Artexo can reach the Coruña, if he is under 19 years old, to study without paying, but to move within the Coruña he has to pay. Is that the public transport proposal you're talking about? At Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol. Look, here's the list of commitments made on infrastructure. Take two full sheets. Yes, of course, it's because you don't know that we built 200 kilometers of high-capacity tracks, so you don't know. But it is good that, in addition to going to Brussels, you should take a tour of Monforte, indeed. Monforte knows that when we arrived at the Government, after four years of the Bipartite, the dry port had not yet been completed. We finished the dry port and connected it... it hasn't been there yet, but it's important, after coming from Brussels, to get to Monforte, I really tell him. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Villares... [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u70	Mr. Villares, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u71	...if you want to discuss now whether the dry port of Monforte is finished is like if you're discussing a particular party that we still don't know which one it is. Mr. Villares, the dry port of Monforte is finished. We're improving the access infrastructures and they're still getting better. And now tell me about the beach. It is so contradictory in its criticisms that it is capable of blaming the Board for the rise of the fee and at the same time that that highway is not the responsibility of the Board. It's at least an important political piece. We're responsible for increasing a fee and we're also responsible for that highway that doesn't depend on us. It's, at least, interesting, Mr. Villares. Did you learn it in Brussels or learn it during your entire public manager task...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u73	...of big government or autonomous communities budgets? Mr. Villares, with all due respect, I say to you: look, it's good that you travel to Brussels and it's also good that you know that while you're President of Galicia I have no more objective than Galicia. And if we have the second largest self-investment community per inhabitant, we have to say it; if we have to reach the AVE by the end of 2019, we have to say it, and criticize it, because it had to be in 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u75	Your Honor, don't count for favors with any government, you know why? Because here I didn't have any government, they put up the Galicians. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the reduction of wages and the precariousization of employment and working conditions registered in recent years, in particular regarding the recruitment of young persons, as well as the existing gender pay gap
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u77	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u78	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Blanco. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u79	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Before we begin to debate this initiative, to put forward the proposal that we bring to this House today, I would like to make a clarification, which seems to be a lie that we have to do, but we do want to address this issue from the Socialist Group. Workers and workers who join a trade union organization are not autonomous, they are people who freely choose to join a trade union organization. [[Applause]] By the way, we welcome you today to be the UGT-class trade unions and Commissions, who accompany us. And I say this because these organizations and other social organizations in this country have been fighting for decades for the rights of workers and workers in this country. Not only for that, but because I'm not going to get tired of remembering that they had a proactive role in the fight against franchise and also later in the consolidation of democracy. To those who do not know the right to union membership, I recommend that they read article 28 of the Spanish Constitution. [[Applause]] But we're going to the initiative that the Socialist Group puts forward today. On November 30 we knew the latest official data on GDP developments and told us that economic growth in general was more or less the same behavior in both Galicia and Spain. But when we talk about job recovery, job creation, it's not the same: we grow up just like Spain, but we create much less jobs. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, that I like to give the data, and the data based on what the INE says. Thus, in the last year, approximately 19,500 jobs created represent less than 4% of the total that was recovered in Spain. If we followed the same behavior as the rest of the country, we would be creating 10,000 more jobs. It is a priority objective of the Socialist Party to fight precariousness, low wages and the emergence of poor workers. This cannot be done overnight, but on the basis of a new model of decent wages in this country, which has to be reflected in different areas which are the ones that are collected in part on this initiative. Spain's current salary model is acting as a cutter, preventing economic and social progress, not just because of the negative social effects we know. It is also affecting the economic environment and jeopardizing this much-expected economic recovery, as it makes it impossible to normalize consumption in households under the low-wage scheme and affects the reduction in the savings rate of families. We believe that it is important, while respecting the autonomy of collective bargaining between unions and employers, to emphasize the importance of these annual agreements that recover the wage weight. And I'm going to put some examples. In Galicia in 2009, wages were 48.6% of the GDP of this autonomous community, which fell by 12% in eight years. In Spain, the percentage was 42% of wage income accounts, today it is 11% higher in the rest of Spain than in this autonomous community. We have, on many occasions, remembered, the third lowest average wage in all Spain. We are on the podium of the lower-wage communities, only surpassed by Canary Islands and by Extremadura. Wages are between 11% and 12% below the average state. It is also important — and the Socialist Group is defending it in these last years — that the gradual increase in the minimum inter-branch wage up to the EUR 1,000 — not just us alone — is also one of the recommendations of the European Social Charter, an increase that must be made the reason, for example, that is our proposal, of EUR 98 in each of the next three exercises. But, ladies and gentlemen, both to increase the wages of workers and workers to decent levels and to increase the minimum inter-professional wage is — not necessarily — the need for trade unions to increase their negotiating power in Spain. The increase in wage inequality and the precariousness of employment is also the result of the weakening of the bargaining power of workers in the context of collective bargaining, on the basis and because of this unfair labour reform put in place by the People's Party. We can imagine the best employment measures to improve the labour market, but we will not be able to put them into effect and will not improve the working environment if we do not curb the abuse of temporary employment, which is no longer an escape route for the recruitment of many entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. That is why we consider — not necessary, I repeat — that the principle of causality should be strengthened as the only justification for the implementation of these contracts, that the effectiveness of the Labour Inspection should also be enhanced, so that the temporary contract is a transitional and exceptional tool, but not an instrument for further precaution of employment in this country. If you see the percentage that among the people who are employed have a partial schedule, this one has increased considerably in our autonomous community. They were about 12 out of 100 in 2010 and today there are more than 15 out of 100. And by type of contract because employees with indefinite contracts are in Galicia about 100,000 minus in the last eight years. With regard to public employees, announced the rise of 1%, does not even reach what the CEO himself claimed for the private sector. That is why we are also in favour of at least that the salary increase for next year is equivalent to the increase in real inflation and that it gradually recovers the purchasing power that has been lost or stolen during these years of economic crisis. In the public sector, it's also important not only to talk about wages, but also about working conditions. So we continue to demand from the Socialist Group the implementation of 35 hours a week without a reduction in wages. It's important not only for employees and public employees, but also for opening up the way for the entire Spanish society, for private companies as well, and improving the distribution in working time, the decrease in working hours in this country, and finally the increase in the quality of life of workers and workers. For socialists and socialists, wage inequality between men and women is perhaps the closing point of a chain of situations of discrimination that we suffer from women in the workplace, a chain that starts from the difficulties of accessing the world itself to the mode of recruitment, to the curriculum model, to the lack of measures for real and effective reconciliation in the family and staff. We, the socialists, continue and will continue to focus on the struggle for gender equality and non-discrimination, a flag that we raise whenever we can with great pride, and in this matter, in addition to other measures, we need, we want to put in place a labour equality law that takes account of since the incorporation into labour conditions and women's remuneration in the world of work. Even so, we also ask for more transparency, because we believe that it is also important that the wages of workers and workers, that difference, that wage gap that exists, that in Galicia is more than 22%, be public and notorious, and if you know what type, what type of contracts workers and workers have in a company. Ladies and gentlemen, if we talk about youth, we have to refer to those who are most affected by the economic crisis, those who have suffered the greatest cuts and anti-social policies of the People's Party as well. We also take action on this initiative, such as the review and promotion of the replacement contract, the contract in practice, the status of the purse, the elimination of those extracurricular practices that often replace jobs. In Galicia, the population between 26 and 35 years old amounts to more than 220,000 Greeks and Greeks. The average wage is EUR 13,912 gross annually. If we do the calculation, gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u81	...they don't even come to the concept of a millionaire in the distribution of fourteen months, a dramatic situation that, of course, we must continue to fight. This initiative also takes steps to end the problem of false autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have time for more. It's true that this is a very complete initiative with which we try to reach at least today an agreement on something that we consider important: to take one more step in improving living conditions and working conditions for thousands of people in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentary Nationalist Blocs Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u83	Continuing where Mrs Blanco finished, it is an initiative that brings various proposals and touches on different areas. Therefore, the Galician Nationalist Block agrees with many of them, with others we have some questions of nuance — but we understand that I am a good starting point — and with some other because we have some more important difference, derived from the reading we make of the moment and the path that must be followed. In any case, regardless of whether or not the Socialist Party accepts our amendments, we will not oppose this initiative moving forward if it so decides — although I have little hope, I do not know Mrs Blanco — the majority group. In any case, there's a couple of points we'd like, if we don't accept the amendments, which we'll put apart, but we'll talk later. Well, as a global framework, for nationalists, we analyze that at this moment we find ourselves in a socio-economic and political context where the People's Party, both in the Union and in the state, is trying to take advantage of the growth of the macroeconomic framework to paint the image of an ideal world and, first of all, to expand that idea of recovery, when all the data show that this recovery has not just been transferred to the Welsh working class, and we have, for example, increased during the time of the Government Feijóo until three times faster than in the state as a whole the rate of poverty; and secondly, because we also try to take advantage of the theoretical overcoming of the crisis from power to consolidate the model of precariousness and poverty, which led us to consolidate that scam and the model of the poor worker and laborer. So, let's just go to the macro-statisticians, obvious issues like, for example, in our country there are more than 109,000 people who charge less than 350 euros a month. That is the strategy and, therefore, we understand that in this context we must act consistently, from Parliament and also from class unionism, so that we do not use this alibi to steal more rights. We understand that the consolidation of the poor worker and worker is not the way out, even more so when that period of crisis worsened because it left us that it was precisely the highest wages that were increasing at that time. So it's time for us to be demanding and we won't take advantage of any social pseudocontracts that keep that status quo. We have specifically amended point 3, because, as they well know and will not surprise anyone, we defend and we will defend that labour reforms must be repealed, in plural, in a special way, the Royal Decree Law 10/2010, Law 35/2010 and also Decree Law 20/2012 and Royal Decree Law 3/2012, as well as all the regulations that originate. We understand that without a more secure legal framework it will be impossible to move forward in such basic matters, although we do not specifically amend it, such as the constant breach of the German labour framework. More and more centralizing decisions outside our country, we understand that we have lost. To show, then, a button. We have recently seen the consequences of the centralization of collective bargaining, by setting an example, which also did not receive an answer from the Galician Union, such as the Pontevedra provincial construction convention, which was denounced in the trial by the Madrid employer, passing over the provincial, precisely because it was better than the general agreement. Secondly — I have made rapid progress too, because there are many issues, we amend point 6, because perhaps it is a matter of drafting, but we understand that we must go to the minimum possible reduction of these types of contracts and accompany in improvements in practice contracts. We are therefore committed to putting in place a battery of measures to ensure that not a single euro of public administration is used to evaporate that type of recruitment and hide figures of precariousness, unemployment, under contracts and under other types of sub-refugees while then there is no real employment policy behind it. We understand that these funds must go to other issues. And I wanted to take advantage of the last few seconds that I have left to make a reflection on the question of the pay gap. It's a lot of talk about the pay gap in this country and it's researched, it's taxed and it's little after inspection. At that point I agree with Mrs. Blanco. I would recommend that the People's Party make fewer campaigns and fewer observatories and more concrete measures to correct this. And a reflection. We also talk a lot about demography and the loss of population in this country, but if we see exactly what the work environment tells us, we can see how in the last year there are more than 10,000 less active people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u85	...of those under 35. And, if we see the evolution of the assets and population data — and I am finished, Mr President — since 2009, we have lost more than 50,000, which, although they have been compensated by other age groups, shows a bleak picture, where women under 35 — those who are, if we want to, reproduce ourselves — are the ones who are most missing from this country, the ones who are most emigration and the ones who are less working in decent conditions. And so without a different labour policy, all they do for that demographic crisis that so many headlines give it will be wet paper. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, from Marea we believe that no one can deny today the picture of social inequality, which motivates, among other things, this initiative. And we think that this picture is just one of the direct effects of looking for the improvement of competitiveness precisely by following the competitive strategy at low prices at the cost of sacrificing the purchasing power of labour sales, as is shown in the non-law proposal. It is that even the European institutions themselves suspend the Spanish State in inequality. In Marea, it is not said by the opposition parties, the European Union, that it says that the 20% that earns the most achieves five times as much as 20% in the European Union, but in the Spanish state that proportion is slightly above six and a half times. The Community Executive draws attention to the fact that the levels of income equality before the crisis have not been established in Spain. So we agree, as has been said since the opposition, in an element of analysis that motivates the presentation of this initiative, and it is that macroeconomic recovery since 2014 does not translate into social reality. The Union's own budgets, as we have reported since En Marea, are inhibited from increasing GDP; it is therefore inhibited from using that public tool to act as best as possible in the economy. And yet, what we're following is in the work anomaly in Galicia, with the worst work evolution in the state, losing more jobs — those 104,000 jobs less than in 2009 — increasing unemployment, the unemployment rate rising more and being one of the most self-employed communities we've lost, something dramatic in that youth sector, as has just been exposed. We are in the framework — we remember, we will not forget — of a labour reform — of 2012 — that has unprotected the working class, to transfer the negotiating power to the entrepreneurship. And here we agree with what Mrs Blanco has said: it is essential that the unions — some of them represented here today — recover the negotiating power, that the working class recover the power of collective bargaining, because otherwise we will remain in a perfect situation for working hyper-exploitation, precarious recruitment, wages of poverty, and finally labour poverty. And one point: Eurostat data say that the evolution of wages per hour in the Spanish state was exactly 0%, and if we also address inflation, because we would be the state of the European Union with the greatest loss of purchasing power in the working class. And if, in addition, we look at our country, we'll see that we're one of the places where prices are most high, especially heating, light and water. We also said that yesterday: what is called energy poverty is still greater than considering poverty globally. So consumption was not recovered. But this has to be compared with the European Union, because if, while in the Spanish state, the wage is now frozen, the eurozone has risen by 1.6% and in the whole of the European Union by 2.1%. Here's a demonstration that the recovery here only reaches financial capital and businesses. Thus, the low quality of employment that is being created, mainly for youth — we will talk specifically about this issue. Even though that salary remains stagnant, not even the new jobs reduce the average, because they are agreed in collective agreements very few ups. Let's look at some example, some very specific example of wages from some Greek conventions. Hosting; Lugo, 2012, reception and concierge assistant, EUR 772.50. Textile trade in Ourense, 2010, dependent, EUR 960.44. They're not wages, they're poor, they're all under 1,000 euros a month. It should be recalled here that 45% of the employees and employees in Greece in 2015 paid less than 972 euros gross a month; less than 45% did not even reach the millionaires. But this means that, despite such widespread economic recovery, many collective agreements, both sectoral and corporate, are without negotiation and above all with these kinds of wages. This is especially serious for workers. Some of these agreements I mentioned are very feminized sectors. Let's see why we need to focus especially, as this initiative does, on a specific plan for women's work. Why? That gender inequality, around 22% in 2015, with very deep structural causes, which have to do with the machist division of work and the presence of these women, in the worst paid jobs and in the most precarious sectors, causes, in a very visual graph, that in the low wages of the worst wages, 10% of the lowest wages, women in the Spanish state occupy 75% of these jobs, that is the decline, and that in Galicia is still worse: 80% of the worst jobs are women. So, yes, we agree on the need for a specific plan for youth -- there's the low rate of emancipation,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u89	...the precarious jobs of young people—and a specific plan for female employment. Why? We will not be able to recover a country with a population of this level of salary; and, in order to decide to have the children we want, we need wages and jobs. These measures are a starting point. We're going to support them, even if they're just very general measures, but we're also going to say: not only are speeches, they have to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u91	If Calvo-Star closes, leaving women out of their jobs, the speeches will be very good but the practice is that women will lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I confess to you, Mrs. Blanco, that I have been at your initiative for some time doubting whether it was really a PNL or an election program. I think it's not an election program to be presented to the Provincial General Secretariat of the Socialist Party; it's probably not an electoral program for the Autonomous General Secretariat; it could even be for presentation to the General Secretariat of the Socialist Party of Spain. I would tell Mr. Gonzalo Caballero and Mr. Pedro Sánchez that they are watching their backs, because I think this initiative that you bring to this plenary today has a lot to do with that process in which you are participating and very little to do with the reality of our country. [[Applause]] It is curious that Members who accuse the majority of bringing auto-bomb initiatives, propaganda initiatives, use something as delicate as employment — and precisely from the Socialist Party — to come here to carry out an internal electoral campaign. Look, economic recovery continues to move to the labour market. It's something that you can strive to deny permanently, but it's a reality that's there, and that data confirms month by month, every month for three and a half years. Look, unemployment has dropped in the last year by 16,700 people, 8%. The unemployment rate is low in Galicia, the unemployment rate is low in Spain. We were at unemployment levels under eight years of data; five consecutive years of falls in November; 1 out of 3 people left unemployment lists in this period; we're talking about 90,000 unemployed less than in November 2012. So I think that data, published yesterday, clearly contradicted your catastrophic speech. In Social Security membership, today we have 20,000 more members of Social Security than twelve months ago. That's a reality you don't see. But it also improves the quality of employment. Undefined recruitment has grown in the last year around 10%. You didn't say any of that. We're beyond the rise rate of the state average. He didn't talk about it either. We also grow in full-time recruitment by 5%, 5.8% exactly, with respect to the last year. Those are data that confirm, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek economy continues to consolidate its recovery. We're going the right way. It's true that we came from a very bad situation. Do you know when? When you ruled. When you ruled, in the last year of socialist government with the nationalists -- who are today in the Bloc, some in the Tides, others in the house -- then unemployment rose to the ratio of 50,000 people in the last year. And that's why those of the Socialist Party, those of the Galego Nationalist Block, those who are now in the Podemos Tides and those who are in the house, actually, are all much better at home, all much better at home, which is what the Greeks actually decided when there were elections. Look, today we're talking about job quality, youth employment, gender payroll. Those are our concerns, too. Do you know what's going on? That, when you ruled, what there was no job, and then there was no job, neither good nor bad, there was no job for women or men, so there was no job for young or old. Today we are actually talking about the quality of employment, because that is the concern. And you know why? Because we've created jobs over the last few years in Galicia and Spain, without any help from you. I'm telling you about an initiative that is certainly propaganda. You're talking about a shock plan, implementing measures. Which is because you're not proposing anything. It is installed in the absolute ambiguity. Look, the BNG amendment is very curious, very nice. I want to know what you're doing with it, because at your first point, what you're proposing is actually to derogate labour reform, just like you. But they say: let's take yours too, the one which certainly did not serve absolutely anything, Mrs. Blanco. And, therefore, BNG proposes to repeal our labour reform, which has created jobs, and its, that of the Socialist Party, 2010, which has not served for anything. I'd like to know that you're going to vote on this; I suppose you're going to vote in favour, because you give them exactly the same. Derogate the 2010 work reform of Rodríguez Zapatero, its leader. Look, listening to her, it doesn't look like it was a socialist government that generated three million unemployed people in our country. Listening to her, it doesn't look like it was a socialist government that frozen pensions in Spain for the first time in our history. Listening to her, it doesn't look like it was a socialist government that lowered the staff's salary by 5% every month, for life. It was your government. So don't teach us absolutely anything. Endless employment. Look, 7 out of 10 employees have an indefinite contract in Galicia -- I'm not saying, I'm telling EPA in the third quarter. Full-time job, see, you know what the third quarter EPA says?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u95	87% of Galicians have a full-time schedule. Women's employment. Galicia has 10,090 unemployed less than at the beginning of our first legislation. So we work in that direction. Look, Your Honor — already mentioned — since you have taken advantage of coming here to campaign, if we do not have a debate in this Parliament until primary day, I also take advantage of wishing you all the luck of the world in these elections. But I also want to take advantage of this gallery to send a greeting to Mr. Pachi Vázquez, because, after all he's done for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u97	...and for his career, he must have led a good disappointment knowing that you weren't really a... [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor on the initiative's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u99	Thank you very much, President. The first, as far as anyone is concerned about presenting an amendment, I'm going to address Mrs. Presas. We are not going to accept the amendment; we are willing to vote on points. Obviously, to ban the latest labour reform, we can continue to derogate to the beginning of democracy; what we have to do is sit down and talk about reforming the labour market, we have to do it among all of us. Mr. Tellado, every time you get out here -- you wanted to confess -- we say below in the Socialist Group, "prepared for impact," because you're the truth because you come here, yes, yes, make your theater. And I understand that you are Secretary General and I respect you very much. Look, I don't have much time and I in four minutes can't explain to the People's Party what I can't understand in forty years. I am very proud of the Socialist Party's primary process, in all areas, that we are carrying out, because, of course, we are talking to you about the participation and democratization of political organizations, because it's Chinese, Mr Tellado, but I don't have time to explain it. [[Applause]] What I'm telling you is that in Ourense the provincial secretary puts the 1,600 militants on him, he doesn't put Baltar on his knees next to him; that's what I'm saying. [[Applause]] I'm going more worried than I've ever been, that it wasn't much anymore. Look, they follow the speech that everything is about wonders, that in Galicia the employment data are very good. Look, Mr Tellado, annual affiliation, 1.5 points less in Galicia than in Spain; number of indefinite, 11% less in Galicia than in Spain; evolution compared to 2010, while temporary contracts due to production circumstances were 2.80 % in 2010, now they are 3.5%; by work and service they were 12%, now they are 15%; that is, they continue to deny the evidence of temporaryity and precariousness in the labour market. Look, and his speech always turns around Zapatero. I feel very proud of President Zapatero; I have said so many times. Of course, our politics wasn't Mrs. Andrea Fabra's. Of course I can tell you, it was not to address the unemployed and the unemployed in this country with such disrespect. [[Applause]] Of course we're not going to make a deal. All the initiatives which have so far been put forward by the Socialist Group on Employment, all of which, Mr Tellado, have been rejected. And you're the ones who boast of dialogue and you're the ones who presume of consensus. I also tell you that, even if they were all rejected, we will continue to insist, we will continue to insist constantly, yes, in which it is necessary to improve the living condition — I repeat — the conditions of the labour market of thousands of people in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the continuation by the Government of Greece with the transformation of health services by promoting their humanization in relation to the scientific-technical training of professionals and the human approach to the patient, in order to improve the response to the demands and expectations of citizenship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u101	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u102	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u103	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today from the Galician Parliament People's Group we bring to this plenary a non-law on the transformation and continuation of health services by promoting humanization in relation to the scientific-technical training of professionals and approach to the patient, in order to improve the response to the demands and expectations of citizenship. In public health everything is important and everything is improved, and in that sense, since the People's Party arrived at the Government of Galicia in 2009, health was paramount, and the largest budget of Autonomy, year after year, falls to health. Infrastructures are important, yes, and that's why they've expanded and improved, and that's why more than 70% of the Greeks live in an area where they have a reformed hospital or a new or reformed health center. Since 2009 more than 700 million euros have been invested in modernizing hospital infrastructure and has been operating in 49 health centres. Technology is important too. That's why Sergas' biggest investment in technology was made: about 100 million euros. Electronic clinical history has been strengthened and electronic recipe and IANUS allows us that for the Greeks, we are where we are and we are sick and we go to a health center, any professional has at his service all our data, and this, speaking of health, is vital. We continue to improve with the impulse of e-consultation, which allows a permanent dialogue between primary care and hospital care and the various hospital services, and about 100 percent of Sergas' generated medical image is generalized, and also 100 percent of Welsh health centers can make use of telemedicine. And it's also important for human capital, staff. So now that budgets allow it, a stability plan has been put in place to reduce interactivity. In April of this year, we signed the Sergas Employment Stability Plan and Staff Regulations, which will allow a 5% reduction in the percentage that represents any staff. And once you've been acting on all these issues, we think now is the time to act on another, no less important, that for us is fundamental: humanization. The technification of health services, the priority for efficiency and cost control can lead to the fact that on some occasions health workers face administrative, financial and procedural aspects to the provision of a human-oriented health service. Humanization of health has as its central objective the guiding of action in the world of health towards the service of the sick person, considering it as a whole personal and trying to offer comprehensive, cordial assistance, which responds to psychological, biological and social dimensions. To humanize a reality means to make it worthy of the human person, that is, consistent with the peculiar and unalterable values of the human being. It is essential that all professionals direct their knowledge to the service of others, placing, first, sensitivity and ethics in the act of care, highlighting human dignity and offering optimal attention, communication and information to users, patients, families and other professionals involved in the system. Any act of health care implies, in addition to the attempt to cure a disease based on scientific knowledge, the effort to care for the patient and which, in addition, feels careful. In that sense, we know that the Government of the People's Party of Galicia continues to move forward in the implementation of the strategic plan for the humanization of health care in order to continue to advance in the improvement of Welsh public health care. Health professionals are the agents of humanization. Humanization is an inherent characteristic of care and numerous initiatives are under way, both in primary and hospital care, related to the improvement of the humanization of care. The care of professionals who can perform their work away from the daily stress inherent in the performance of their work, on many occasions, seems fundamental to us, as well as adding value to citizens, responding in a complete, constant and effective manner to the changing needs and expectations of patients, transforming them into proposals of attractive and sustainable value through respect and consideration for their human dignity, their singularity and their freedom and autonomy; providing people-centred assistance, with the signs of identity of a courteous treatment, using as fundamental tools effective and clear communication and the relationship of assistance; creating favourable contours of humanization for professionals, health system workers, patients and caregivers, as well as for the organization. Professionals are the main value of the health system, the main agent of humanization. Developing and developing their communication skills and skills, bioethics, aid relationships, along with emotional and social skills, is a fundamental task, as well as preventing professional wear syndrome. The people we work in health know how important it is, when we're in front of a patient, how effective it is to listen to it, to put it in its place, to give importance to the problem of consultation. Whether it's more or less important for this patient is their problem. And to stand by it, listen to it and know how to convey it in the best way possible and so that you understand it and that if you leave the consultation feeling listened and with your problem of resolved health or resolution is fundamental. Therefore, effectively managing changes, increasing the skills and competences of professionals and organization, in partnership with patient associations, scientific societies, universities and other health agents and civil society, is very important; ultimately, producing a positive impact on the environment and society as a whole by improving the humanization of assistance and the generation of collective value and knowledge about this. And in all the above, the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue to transform health services to better respond to the requirements and expectations of citizenship, promoting the humanization of health services in its two aspects: the scientific-technical training of professionals and the human approach to the patient, worthy of respect and consideration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales has the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u105	It's a pity Mrs. Blanco had left, but tell her, when she comes back, that they can do this People's Party initiative and remove the electoral program already, see if she's more lucky than Mr. Tellado next time. Well, jokes aside, after reading this initiative -- then I tell you, that if I don't, the time is over -- the truth is that the first thing that comes to my head is to say an obvious thing that gives me almost a certain smell, but believe me that I say it completely seriously; that is, the first thing that is necessary for the humanization of health is human beings, professional human beings of public health that can pay more attention to the people who use this health. What I'm saying is obvious, but the truth is, by reading this initiative, in a lot of things that we agree with in theory, which as a spirit may seem good to us, but which we really compare this theory with the praxis that then exists of the People's Party in public health, because we see that it's totally different. That is why we amend the motion for a resolution, which is quite desirable and not concrete, to include a specific point because precisely of staff policy and to demand once again that they present an employment recovery plan that will enable them to restore all the lost squares since the application of the replacement rate as early as 2010, as well as to replace the professionals during their absences, during all of them, and stop cheating, as they are doing. Without going into — because it doesn't give me time — in the job situation that leads to the lack of staff in the workers themselves, because nor does it have to say that the timeliness at this moment in public health results in that it is complicated, for example, something so fundamental to the humanization of the treatment of health that users and doctors themselves can deepen in mutual trust and in times of care, in the knowledge of the patient and their circumstances and so on. Another issue that is diametrically opposed to the humanization of health we understand that these are the waiting lists. That's why we also propose a shock plan for the elimination of these and for them to stop deriving to private. You can't come here, as if nothing, to talk about humanization while we have a serious problem in full budgetary debate, because you don't introduce any novelty to shorten it either. By doing the same, always repeating the same thing, from the BNG we understand that we will have the same result, and that therefore patients waiting, cheated lists and abuse of the use of private derivatives, which say it to bodies like the Board of Auditors — it is not that we do not invent it either the BNG ex novo—. I will also briefly mention, because time is little, the importance that we understand should have primary care. Primary care is the gateway to all of us, except emergency, to public health, and therefore it is a priority to strengthen it. That's why we bet we put in place a plan of improvement that is a key element for the public health system in Galicia. To strengthen primary care, not to have within three days, if we have a flu, that have an unnecessary wait because there are no doctors with appropriate coupons and so on and see cases like the ones we've already marked, see those emergencies again when the flu outbreak has its strongest and most severe peak. Questions like everybody in primary care has space, time, attention, capacity, so that these magnificent professionals, which we respect so much, can work to slow down, can sink into prevention, health education, and not just cover emergencies. And correct what you've been doing in the last nine years, which basically comes to cut budgets, up to 21%. All the steps you take have always been in the direction of secondary primary care and of gradually precarious public health. That adds up to more factors and it's a sum and follows that it goes to the detriment of something that we should shield. Not to mention also the underfunding that this area of government has, because of that system of financing that is absolutely harmful right now. In conclusion -- and I'm finished now -- you're talking about continuing the transformation of health that you sponsor, and we understand that, as a general proposal, what you need to do is rectify your health policy and devote all efforts to defending a public health that is really public, Galician, universal and free. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u107	Thank you, President. It is difficult to deal with an initiative like this in a parliamentary debate, and that is why, from our point of view, some things should be pointed out. We believe it is important to highlight that we have different views of Parliament; we respect it, that is a first point. But it's just that, in addition to a cruel coincidence of fate, at this session we've been discussing a proposal by the Socialist Group that was apparently attacked by an electoral program, by having a lot of measures, with data, with ideological positions, and it turns out that we are now facing an initiative, right after that, which basically comes up saying that it is to carry out the electoral program, in this case of the People's Party. What was formerly an attack because it was supposed to be an election program — with quite little grace, by the way — now turns out, minutes later, to carry out an electoral program, and the difference is that now we have an initiative that is an absolute offer to the sun, must be for that fantastic will that there is no politics and have to be done by managers and therefore someone here must consider that we have to come to debate empty words, and, in view of that situation, what we now have is an initiative that says absolutely nothing. In the previous case, for example, we discussed issues, there was an interesting debate among a number of highly educated spoke spokespersons, another later, and we also had an initiative to debate issues of unemployment, employment. In the face of this situation, there was a criticism of how many measures — there must be a lot of work to see all the measures — and what is the position of the groups. And we're thinking later, seeing this initiative, which is what it is intended to do, and what it's meant to do is a toast to the sun, because there is not a single concrete measure that is proposed, none; these are declarations of intent. But, of course, this shouldn't be so hard to perceive when you make a little history, for example, in health care, which is the subject — I say because it's so diffuse that it's sometimes hard to perceive that you were trying to make health care. In health care, which is probably one of the most important issues, as is well said on some initiative, even on this initiative, we wonder if there really is any willingness to make use of this Parliament when it is managed by health care. And then we wonder if this is the initiative that needs to be brought about in order to debate health, what do you propose? But, of course, by making this history, we can go back and see that the health committees usually carry zero People's Party initiatives, zero. [[Applause]] When you talk about discussing and working for health care, you realize that they're going to be zero, and sometimes it's better that they're going to be zero, because when they're carrying a proposal they're changing cartels from a hospital. We must have some respect for the institutions. We already know that there are positions that are less than institutions and that come here to criticise election programs. Actually, I have to say that the previous intervention I heard is a very cruel coincidence, because it would only have to read both and see the two debates to be a little ashamed, if you have the capacity. In any case, what we're asking ourselves is, really, what are you proposing? It proposes an empty declaration of intent which says nothing and which proposes nothing. Look, we just proposed in the Health Committee and in this full employment plan, and the People's Party votes against; the improvement of pediatric care, and the People's Party votes against. We have come to propose reforming the health system so that we have a non-egalitarian system, which is also, if not fair, which is much more than equal, because the egalitarian gives the same thing to the whole world, which may be a good idea of departure, but the equitable gives each one what he deserves or what he needs to start with an equal opportunity, and there are people who need the most. For example, we propose many times that Galician health cannot be ruled with an Excel leaf, that there are places where we need to address and skip that lie that is used from the ratios to care and have personal care, for example in primary care in rural areas, where it is most necessary, because it is not the same thing to analyze 700 people older than 1,300 young people in an urban neighborhood. [[Applause]] That's why it's necessary to analyze and not close up in the offices and make empty and absurd initiatives. Because what we need for health is to have a clear concept of what we want. If we want a humanized health, to humanize what it takes to be human, and humans are personal, and they don't lose 7,000 jobs like we've lost in the last eight years, and to have a capacity for those health workers who care for Galician citizenship not to be in precarious conditions. That's humanizing health, and the rest is making empty debates. That is why I think it is necessary to respect this Parliament, to defend the positions that each one has, but to respect and bring debates that are meaningful, that are normal and have a concrete proposal, and not come here to pretend to make everyone palm trees of a councillor who is breaking the criteria of equality, who has proposed a health reform to differentiate health from first and second and who comes here only using this Parliament as a resonance box of issues that some should reformulate, because, if you make a history of what you are betting on by your county, by your hospital or by your health system, you should be aware that it is better at times to be quiet instead of saying some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u108	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u109	Good day again. The risk that you consider demagogy to be demagogy, I will ask you a question, Mrs. Friend, but I assure you that for people who suffer from it because it is not, and that if the concept of humanization -- I thought when I read this initiative -- is, for example, that of the Hospital de Monforte, where they change, yes, the chairs of the waiting rooms, but, nevertheless, the furniture of the specialty and internal medicine plants continues to be infuriated, it continues to be pre-diluvian, and if they continue to have very high patient ratios with regard to the pathologies that these patients have for the staff, then in that concept of humanization we have not since been. And this initiative seemed to us to be an initiative of propaganda, framed in the general context of health care, because it is obvious that, as you said, professionals are the main agent of humanization, but our health has a problem with lack of personnel. That's why we didn't amend, because it seemed to us that this initiative was just a toast to the sun. Let's go to the data. Since the application of replacement rates in recent years we have lost about 1,800 workers and workers in public health. Humanization — we repeat, and as the companions who preceded me have already done — is to have personal to humanize precisely that health, it is to have human resources. Another data, temporality. Today, timeliness is, according to the Board of Auditors, 23.8% in primary care and 34.5% in specialized care. Precautionary, therefore, is on the agenda; the day and hour contracts, which have also been on the agenda for years, that the Labour Inspectorate itself recognises that the Board lowers staff hired on weekends so as not to pay him days off. If it's humanization of health, we're not there. The cuts, by the way, are also translated into something that we have dealt with many times in Commission 5a, which is the non-recovery of permits and holidays in primary care, also in medical staff, which even gives rise to a waiting list for consultation in primary care. I invite you, in a specific example, to go to the Navy, to some health center, when there's not enough staff, with a patient ratio for every primary health care doctor or doctor that is inscrutable. This generalized staff shortage situation, of course, has been translated into the waiting lists. An example: waiting for a successful TAC is a waiting list in many cases intolerable. I also invite you to see the waiting list in the Monforte Department. Let's think if this is humanization of health. Another example, humanization of health. I absolutely agree with the right that people in sick situations have to have the religious services they ask for, but that doesn't mean that they have to have Serga the curators on payroll. That's not humanization of health. And finally another example. There was in 2017, in the first six months, 174 assaults on health personnel. We know that this is a serious problem and that one of the alternatives that the PP offers is also that interlocutor in judicial matters for this matter. It doesn't sound bad to us. Health professionals also see it as an option, but the main action to be taken to prevent the rising aggressions of health workers is precisely to provide public health with more means. This is what the experts themselves say about this figure of the judicial interlocutor in health matters. They say it because patients, when they have a tremendous waiting list, see health and health professionals as the first link to their despair. And this is in no way justifying aggression. It's to remedy one of the causes of these stress situations. That's humanizing too. Humanize is also, for example, to count in Galicia with a public center of reference for attention to the acquired brain damage. I hope that this agreement that we have reached in Commission 5a can be effectively materialised; there we will have it. That's what we consider humanization. I'm done. We consider, as the initiative says, that patients are worthy of respect and consideration, but precisely so, more personnel, decent material means, more research, appropriate work ratios, workload, and decent public system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u110	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, health is not an issue that can be missed by the truth, and you constantly seem not to take it seriously; they constantly alarm, they constantly miss the truth, they constantly cheat and try to confuse the population. It's less bad that the Greeks are a smart people and they know what they're up against and when they choose and cast their vote that's worth it. They should be proud of the health system we have in Galicia; instead of cheating, they should contribute. Speaking of squares, I remind you this year's OPE has twice as many squares. And I've come here to talk about humanization, which we're interested in humanization, we see what interests you. There is no quality humanization, nor is quality possible without humanization. And look, yes, in the election program of the People's Party of Galicia, which obtained the majority confidence of the citizenship of Galicia, it contained a specific heading on the adaptation of comfortable and friendly health services for patients, and the People's Party complies with its electoral promises. In this sense, we must highlight the culture and humanization of health professionals, the implementation of programmes to promote leadership and improve the working environment, improve humanistic competences and promote humanized attitudes. With regard to emergency care, hospitalization, focusing on improvement, sensitivity, humanization in the care of both family members and escorts, the accompaniment of patients admitted to tests, the quality of rest of hospitalized patients, the humanization of sanitary spaces, information to the patient and family during their admission in a clear manner, with words that are easily understood, in accessible language, and that all this is easier for the patient, which, ultimately, a patient, when he enters a hospital, must be reminded that he is a lord who feels vulnerable, and that is why we have to improve in this kind of care. We know that much remains to be done, yes, and this is required, by the creation of protocols and guides. And look, some of these activities do not require extra investment, and obviously the training of professionals or the maintenance of installations do require specific budgets. Gentlemen, more seriousness and more humanization. As for the amendments, of course, we came here to talk about humanization. As we see what interests you, we cannot accept your amendments. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u112	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on information by the Galician Union regarding the progress of Guatemalan potato curfew and the measures taken and planned to eradicate it, as well as the aid granted to alleviate the damage caused
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u113	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u114	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mrs. Friend, before I left, last year I had to go get a Saharan child vaccine; I went to poor Trives, where our medical center is, and there was no pediatrician; they sent me to Maceda, I went to Maceda, which is 40 kilometers away, and I arrived there and there was, and they sent me the next day to Ourense. This sounds like two hundred and a half miles and two days. I don't want to create alarms, but a little upset that I was, and those are the policies that you have today in rural health. [[Applause]] I'll get to the subject before the president asks me. October 20, 2017 was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on the expansion of the areas affected by the potato pest or Guatemalan cabbage. In its resolution of 17 October of the Directorate-General for Glanding, Agriculture and Food Industries extended the demarcated areas of quarantine by the presence of the plague in the potato. The background summary, this is all in the published DOG, it's not our mention. The plague called Guatemalan cuuza in the potato was detected in the Autonomous Community of Galicia in August 2015. The resolution of 16 October 2015 of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Food Industries declared the plague to be present and established the areas demarcated for this plague and adopted urgent measures for its eradication and control in the autonomous community. Subsequently, by resolution of 11 February 2016, the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Agri-Food expands the areas demarcated by the presence of the plague. On 4 March 2017, this Royal Decree of 3 March is published and is therefore established through the National Programme for Control and Eradication of the Tecia, the Plague of the Couza. In accordance with this royal decree, Galicia publishes the resolution of 8 March 2017 establishing infested areas and buffer zones and implementing measures for eradication and control with regard to the corentene body of the potato cabbage in our autonomous community. On dates following the publication of this resolution of 8 March, new detections of this organism were made in the municipality of Cariño, which has so far been included in the buffer zone. The entire municipality should therefore be declared as an infested zone, and it should be applied in accordance with points 2, 4 and 5 of that resolution: to extend the pest-infected areas, to maintain all the phytosanitary measures laid down in the resolution of 8 March and, in particular, to prohibit the cultivation of potatoes in those infected areas. Farmers and farmers in the buffer zones defined in point 1(b) of the resolution shall continue to communicate immediately after the seeding of all seeds grown with potatoes and seed potatoes operators in the Autonomous Community of Galicia shall comply with different requirements for the decree. In short, in August 2015 the demarcated areas for this plague are detected on 16 October 2015 and the area demarcated by this plague is expanded on 11 February 2016 and new detections are produced on 8 March 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I believe that the measures that have been taken so far are insufficient. I think you know that too. Otherwise, they wouldn't have brought out that decree. The measures that are being implemented are not enough. Above all, on 2 March 2017, the Galician Parliament adopted a series of measures, proposed by En Marea in Commission 7a, to investigate and eradicate the plague of the shell, which affects some of the potato farms in Galicia. The proposal would allow the creation of a technical committee to follow up on the potato elbow. In this commission are represented the Junta, the Fegamp, the Phytopathological Laboratory of Galicia and the Protected Geographical Indication "Pataca de Galicia". The tasks of this committee would be the measures to control the plague, the information measures to be affected and those taken to prevent its enlargement, as well as the evolution of the decree prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment. The committee should report in writing to the Parliament of Galicia through the Committee on Agriculture on the control measures adopted, the human and material resources available and the evolution of the plague in Galicia. It's not done. Nine months after passing this agreement on a committee, it was not made. In addition to this committee and the reports to Parliament, it has also adopted the action to draw up a written report which should be submitted to parliamentary groups on the assessment of prevention measures adopted since 2015 to prevent the spread of the scourge of the elbow. It's not done. In addition, in this committee we agree to urge the Ministry of Agriculture to speed up the adoption of the decree, which came out later, to take these effective and rapid measures to prevent the spread of the plague. The phytosanitary and control measures imposed since that, as well as the prohibition of planting potatoes in the so-called municipalities, the obligation to start it and the few aids, made the worst fear: the progress with expansion across the country, affecting an economic sector linked to the potato and very important in our community, and also affecting the very final consumer, since a large part of the population potato plant for own consumption, for self-consumption, something that we have also since En Marea, because it has been completely excluded from the aid orders. From the first detection of positives, the advance of the plague was intense, as it was predictable. Because of this, the Council ordered Tragsa, which, by the way, spent 2 million euros in six months to deal with pest control, and we see again that it was not effective. This order consisted of monitoring, placement of traps, transfer of samples to the laboratory, collection of affected potatoes and transfer to controlled landfills, although we all saw on the social networks pictures hanging from potatoes taken in the streams of the streams of the streams and of infested potatoes taken in the trash containers, etc. And I refer to Tragsa so that we all can see that the money that the People's Party is budgeting for human resources of vegetable health in the public is clearly insufficient, given the relevance that is taking security today in vegetable health. There are plagues like the citrus trioza, the Xylella in the olive tree and the vineyards, the potato cabbage, the chestnut pine, etc., that can rock crops that we think are of great economic interest to our country today. During 2016 and 2017 some work has been carried out, although we think they are insufficient: the placement of these traps that we were talking about in the surveillance zone, in the areas demarcated for the control of the pest itself, a mapping, data-formation, visual inspections of the plots and of the crops themselves, referral of samples of tubers to the laboratory, removal of potatoes from the farms affected by controlled spills — sometimes not — information talks in different municipalities — little —, it has been reported to merchants, warehousekeepers and distributors, something divulging material to farmers — little — to the people of self-consumption who have potatoes at home, those in small veins for self-consumption — they have not arrived — some traps have been distributed in the farms concerned, etc. The decisions of the Union, the Council of the Rural Environment, were to extend these demarcated areas, from 18 to 31 or 32 — I think they are today — to create these five-kilometre-wide buffer zones, to intensify the dissemination and information to the sector. First of all, in the light of the agreements which have so far been breached by the Council of Galicia, after these agreements taken in Commission 7a, we are obliged to resubmit this initiative. We're presenting an initiative that won't cost the Administration economics. We are presenting an initiative to inform the parliamentary groups, to inform Galician society of the problem of the elbow today in the potato mill, to report on the progress of the Guatemalan cabbage and the measures to be taken — measures that we hope will be effective — in order to eradicate it, to report on the measures established so far and their effects, collected in the resolution of 8 March 2017, which collects infested areas and buffer zones, and to implement the measures for their eradication and control of the quarantine agency, and to report on the aid granted to individuals and producers. We're aware of many cases of people who started that van for self-consumer, and when I had to ask for a €60 aid, and they saw the taxes that were going to hit him later for receiving those subsidies, they gave up, so we thought that those aids are not valid today for our farm. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u115	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. We started by a mismanagement of a plague that began to manifest itself in just three municipalities. In a year of mismanagement and inaction, it becomes present in 32, it jumps to the press and they have to do what they walk, without walking. In March 2017, in Commission 7a, we reached a unanimous agreement on the establishment of a committee to follow up on the potato elbow. It was — and I repeat — a stubborn effort to achieve this agreement, stubborn on the part of the People's Party, among other things in order not to have to stand in evidence by voting against the reasonable GNP that presented the opposition on this issue. Then the strictest hermitism encapsulated the theme of the elbow. And so, once again, we must denounce from this rostrum the contempt that the Council of the Rural Environment has for the agreements of this Parliament, in particular for this one. Among other things, because there was a commitment to the Galician Union to be informed by that follow-up commission at all times of the measures being taken, of the news, etc., etc. None of that happened, nothing of that happened, nothing. The questions we have to ask in the air: did they manage well to remove the contaminated potato? No, no, no, no. The answer is "no." They appeared, as the comrade of In Marea had said before, bags with potatoes contaminated in containers, in streams, anywhere. Retirement was not handled properly. Who and how did he remove the affected potato and under what conditions? Because in committee we were told that in hermetically closed vehicles, disinfected before, after and during. They were taken to another place where they were disinfected before, after, and during. We don't understand, we don't understand how these tubers appear or how some companies offer contaminated tubers to make compost. What control was taken over the movement of the product from quarantine areas? Was it effective? I mean, was there any kind of surveillance, apart from normal surveillance that can exercise the forces of state order? Was there any kind of surveillance about the tuber movement in this country? Were there any incidents? Do they have any incidences? This phantom follow-up commission is convened on 11 October and they speak of figures, actions made, achievements, failures, sacked potatoes. And on November 24 — i.e., in any event practically — they promise that they will send that information to the PSOE — the author of the question — as a deferral — to the information given there. It is Mr. Pérez Seco who suggests to Mrs. Do Campo that he send it to the others, and Mrs. Do Campo accedes to this wish. What do you hide? What do you mean, what do you hide? What do you fear? Fuck! Who did they blame? Are they going to do the same with the fires? I mean, are you going to look for an scapegoat to its ineffectiveness? Because it's a manifest ineffectiveness: from 3 municipalities to 32 -- and now I'm more -- And they tell us in the middle of the summer, so, among other statements, that the elbow problem is all over again, it's going backwards. Of course, yes, it's true, in the places in quarantine, there's an impact on the traps, it's down a lot, it's not strange, it's not planted, man! How are you not going to come down? Poor of us if he doesn't come down! Look, only from the assumption, from the transparency of the problem, from the timely information to the society of what is happening with this problem — because it is a problem for everyone and every citizen, especially those who live in rural areas, who we plant or plant potatoes for our consumption — only from that transparency, society can assume the problem in all its magnitude and we can put it together. Otherwise we don't do anything. With hermetism, all we can do is hide the problem and, like the ostrich, put your head under the wing and wait for them to kick your ass — with forgiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u117	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are talking today about an initiative that, after several debates and measures taken by the Union, should be resolved, but today it is not. A failed forecast of its effects. In the medium term, it does not justify the delay in reacting to the management of the plague, since in 2015 Junta was aware of the existence of the plague and did nothing. We had to wait until March 2017 to make a decree by which potatoes were forbidden to be planted in 13 municipalities in the province of Coruña and in 18 municipalities in the province of Lugo, a total of 31 municipalities, when people had already bought or beaten seed and in some cases planted potatoes. A plague that started with 3 municipalities affected and since October 20 we have 32 infested. So the conclusions are: firstly, that the plague is not being controlled; secondly, that it is not being stopped; and thirdly, that the concern in the areas bordering the affected is increasing. Besides, it's a problem with great media impact, which seems to have come from nothing. Week after week he's also been sharing headlines with other news in the press and in other media. The proliferation of the moth landed in the adoption of a decree by the Board banning planting for at least two years in the infested area. Now, two years have passed since the first notification of the presence of the plague, in 2015, we continue with considerable uncertainty as long as it is found. That uncertainty moves to producers and privates, as it's time to start buying the seed to plant it in the first months of next year. And stores as well as privates still don't know if it's possible to plant them or not. The crisis unleashed by this insect devours the potatoes and leaves many injured, as we all know at this point. Besides, the vast majority are producers that grow for self-consumption, which leads to situations of greater ignorance, and another minority, professional producers. This plague has put under focus a vegetable production that, without being autochthonous, has reached a certain nature and central position in the culture and gastronomy of this country, a crop that some Greeks considered to be of little relevance, linked to self-consumption, except the areas of the Limit, Coristanco and Bergantinos, clearly focused on for sale. But this new shift to the field also brought to light a small producer who spends a surplus on comarcal trade and who assumes a supplementary income, so important at this time of crisis. We're talking about millions of pounds of potatoes and thousands of victims, not only of the 32 municipalities affected, who aren't particularly calm about the event. And that's not an interpretable reality but easy to visualize. And as my predecessors have already commented in the course of the speech, the lack of information at the meetings of the follow-up committee, when there is a unanimous agreement in Commission 7 to inform the members of that committee, it is only to highlight the little attention being paid to the problem and the violation of this House's agreement, so it seems incredible that almost a year after the prohibition to plant potatoes we have no news about the situation of the pest or the conclusions of the follow-up committee meetings. For these reasons, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this initiative of the En Marea Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u119	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rodríguez, ladies and gentlemen. He has no doubt that we are the first to be interested in transparency and clarity in the advance of the fight against the plague of the Guatemalan coup and in the result of the measures taken by the Galician Union for its control and eradication. And that's why I have to tell you and insist that of your interventions you can deduce that you don't listen to the interventions you've done in the committees and even in the plenary the different members of the Government don't read the answers or are attentive to the written answers that you ask and ask their respective groups. Because look, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has made fifteen replies in committee appearances, in writing and even with the presence of the adviser concerning this plague. Answers, all these I've got here. Responses by the Rural Media Adviser to oral questions 4974, 5017 and 5073 concerning measures taken with regard to the elbow; response to parliamentary questions 4832, 6603, 7674, 7675, 8401, 8402, 8405, 12822, 12823, 16737, 16869 and 19430; all of them answers in this Parliament. In addition to these responses — as has been repeatedly reported — two meetings — which you recognize and know — of the follow-up technical commission, on June 30 and October 11, 2017, meetings in which it is represented, in addition to the Galician Council, the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces — the Federación de Municipales and Provinces — Fegamp — are represented, that is, the representation of the mayors of Galicia and since after the councils concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the councils are not informed, they have their representatives on that commission. Also on the commission are the Laboratory Plantatologic of Galicia, as mentioned here, and the Protected Geographical Indication "Pataca de Galicia", which covers quality potato-producing areas throughout the country. This technical committee was born after the Commission's 7th agreement in March, with a view to sharing information and giving transparency regarding the control measures being carried out and the evolution of the plague in our country. So, ladies and gentlemen, as far as they already know — although they do not seem to be aware — in June 2017, the Rural Media Adviser created the Guatemalan Squad Tracking Commission as an organ in which the topics relating to this plague will be dealt with and as a channel of information and advice to the municipalities and the other agents involved. In the initial session of June 30, a review was made of the situation of the plague at that time and of the provisions and regulations published up to that date and its degree of compliance. It has already been informed of the existence of the compensation order and of the barons applied. At this June meeting, the important collaboration of the mayors was highlighted by the dissemination of the measures of eradication against the elbow and cooperation provided in the logistics of the campaign and in the work of Seaga within the collection areas. This follow-up commission, ladies and gentlemen, met again — as you know and recognize — on 11 October 2017 in order to report, already with specific data, on the actions that had taken during the previous months. As regards the quantities collected by municipality from 1 May to 31 August, it was necessary that about 350 tons were the potatoes collected by this device, being destroyed at the authorized installations of Cerceda, in the Coruña, lords. In relation to the captures of Tecia solanivora in the field, the paintings delivered sum up the catches by provinces and municipalities in 2016 and 2017. It highlights — I think it is an important fact and that they should keep it, because it seems they do not pay attention to this — the significant decrease in the number of copies captured, obviously by the measures taken. If planting is forbidden, it obviously has to yield results, and these results result in the diminution of the specimens captured in the municipality such as The Valadouro, Jupiter, Foz, Cervo and Alfoz, in the province of Lugo; and Mañón, Narón or Neda, in the province of Coruña. On the contrary, PSOE gentlemen, Mr. Seco, also highlights the increase in catches of traps installed in the Town Hall of Ortigueira. And look!, because here the Union points to the important problems of institutional collaboration with regard to the work of reducing the plague in this municipality. It is important that we work together, all the municipalities and all the mayors, and that we cooperate with the measures taken. As regards the state of claims and compensation payments, on 26 September there were 206 applications for beneficiaries from the province of Coruña and 1,026 from the province of Lugo. And by July, the Middle Rural Council had begun to blow up the amounts by removing potatoes in the affected areas. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the Rural Environment Council has kept the municipalities and all affected sectors informed of the actions carried out in this first year of the implementation of the measures laid down...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u122	...for the fight against this plague. With the caution and caution that the subject advises, maintaining the implementation of the measures and keeping and monitoring them, without being at all triumphalists, everything points out that these measures taken by the Galician Union are manifesting effective and effective in the fight against this scourge. Testing this is fast detection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u124	...—Filled, President—of moths in the buffer zone of the council of Cariño and the immediate declaration of the entire municipality as an infested zone to apply to it as set out in points 2, 4 and 5 of the March resolution. Far from being a system weakness, it's a strength to quickly detect and apply measures. But finish, ladies and gentlemen, president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u125	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u126	...as I started. We're offering transparency. As was clear in my speech, it existed and exists on the part of the Information Council. And he gave more than enough information to effectively assess the results of measures taken against the Guatemalan elbow. I announce that we shall vote in favour of your initiative in demonstrating transparency and clarity. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u127	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Salgado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u128	Thank you again, President. From In Marea we warned, from that first warning, when the plague was detected, that the subject was going to be out of control, and so it was. In fact, we denounced and asked why you didn't pull out a Greek decree in October or November by banning this plantation. We know they didn't because there were elections. And you said that couldn't be done since the autonomic administration. It is false: we have sufficient competences in vegetable health. Plant defence actions have no support today, they're dismantled, and we think they're a fundamental tool to contain a plague. Last year, 2016, there was only one grant for Lugo province. The aid line of €250,000, giving 0.30 per kilo for those that are backed up in the parcels and 0.70 per kilo for the seed potato, these €4,000 per hectare collected, from En Marea we seem very insufficient. We're still wondering where the help is for loss of profits or where the help is for self-consumption. It doesn't exist for domestic economies, because people don't access them because then the income statement comes to you, you have to justify them, and it doesn't matter to you. And, we insist, you must strengthen the Vegetal Health Service. We're in a crisis that looks like a lot of others are going on, and nothing's going on here. I missed some of Mr. Gómez Salgado's reference to the failure to comply with that agreement, of the agreement we unanimously agreed, as Mr. Seco said, in Commission 7a. You said here, you said you've already held two or three meetings and you haven't been informed of anything to any of the parliamentary groups. And today the responses, in the face of the crisis, of the People's Party in a mining sector, as is the farmer in our country, where we're just now or I think we don't get to 5%, leave much to be desired. We're in a really bad year, okay. But this year there were significant losses in the horticultural sector; answers, zero. In the wine sector, smaller losses — it's also true — by frost and stone. Did you get a help? Yes. Insufficient? Yes. Impossible to achieve? You too. Losses in the cereal by the stone. Losses in the honey sector by the frosts, so the flowering didn't come in time, and the dry and the tuna, which continues to expand all over the country. Losses in the chestnut sector by ice, dry and rock; we're talking about more than 60% of losses. Loss of the livestock by the drought. We applaud from Marea to approve this initiative. Now, we hope they don't do as they did in the agreement taken at the March 2 commission. Nine months have passed and no one in this House has heard of any of the measures they are taking, as we agreed in that committee, in writing. Then the answers are different ways. And here we think that this crisis is no longer worth us later than ever, because in the afternoon it may be devastating in a crisis like Guatemalan elbow. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u129	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. As announced, we are now suspending the session to attend the event in memory of Miguel Ángel Blanco and the victims of terrorism, which is celebrated in the square of the Constitution, next to here, and to which you can access the Ramón Piñeiro Street, for which the fence we can all pass is opened. We'll resume the full by acoustic signal, but it'll be around one-and-five.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u130	Good morning. We continue with the plenary session and continue at the point of non-legislative proposals, to 4.7. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project to reopen the operation of the copper mine in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino presented by the company Copper San Rafael, S.L., with the waste stored in mine space, as well as the restoration of the soils and waters contaminated by the previous mining activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u131	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u132	Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you again. In the first question Mr. Industry Counsellor asked in this Chamber about the project of reopening the Touro mine I was accused of being illegal, of issuing premature trials and of trying to force the council to skip the deadlines set by law. Political pressure is a legitimate resource in democracy when it expresses social alarm, and in this case there is it! Citizens don't trust legality, and we openly distrust it. First mistrust: a project of these characteristics must make clear and defamatory the corporate responsibilities of the project, of environmental guarantees and of the responsibilities that may arise from accidents or disasters before or after a possible operation. The project documentation cites an entrenchment of companies: some as holders of mine rights, supposedly in contradiction with the mine census itself; others would promote the updating of the exploitation project; and others, still without a specific role, raise doubts about the assumption of responsibilities, especially taking into account the background and linkages of some of the companies. Consider as an example this simple question: what does North-West Metal Mines, S.L., and Copper Galleges Exploitations, S.L., have to do with the project? If these two companies are not holders of any concession of exploitation, what is their role? Defiance two: it cannot rightly be assumed, either by the Government of Galicia or by its citizenship, by a mega-project mine that leaves a grave environmental impact and which entails a threat that will remain in the future on a wide territory bathed by the riverway of the Ulla, which supplies drinking water a densely populated area and which is an artery of wealth itself, which ends in the universe generator of life and economic resources called "Arousa's Sea". So we're talking about a mega-project that would leave behind a real high environmental impact. This real impact is an old known in the county for the pollution generated by the past mining activity from 1973 to 1986. By the way, we don't know what Mr. Fernández Albor's Government has done with the deposit of 300 million pesetas that remained there — so it was only theoretically seen — for the restoration of the damage done. It has become a disaster, abandoned space and population, and without environmental controls of any kind. This tragic reality is one of the foundations of our mistrust. So to that real damage, let's say that inevitable, we would have to add a grave threat of extreme disaster risk, and I'm not exaggerating, which would extend from the mine itself to the mouth of the Eye, that is, to that piece of paradise that we call "Arousa'sria." Because mining rafts and leached pools and runaways are no joke. We're talking about the Auxiliary Job of Vieiro, with a maximum height from the coronation up to 100 meters and an area of 48.4 hectares, where more than 80 million cubic metres of potentially more polluting waste are to be accumulated. Its location ensures the contamination of the wells present in the area. We're talking about the megabalsa miner of Arinteur, with an 80-metre concrete wall and an area on the base of 126 hectares, which will contain millions and millions and millions of tons as a deposit of highly contaminant plant steriles. Equally risky is the prediction of accumulating large amounts of entules, potentially acid drainage generators in the cuts of Arinteur and Vieiro, and in this case the encapsulation aims to achieve by flooding the entules with water, euphemistically calling it "Arneter and Vieiro lagoon". The large deposit of mud and acid mine water that will be formed through the binding and filling of these two cuts with the fillings of acid water generators is tremendous. The really disturbing thing is the classification of the risks of the containment walls of these rafts. According to the guidelines for the classification of walls of the International Commission on Great Press, contained in the project, the risk factor of the dam wall is high by its capacity, extreme by its height, moderated by the requirements of its evacuation — which are faked, because they speak from zero to as many dead as possible, and it is about two hundred— and extreme by the potential damage of waters below. At the end of the mistrust, we begin with certainty. One certainty: the counterpart to this future of extreme pollution and the binding of valuable mining resources is the creation of less than 300 temporary jobs. In the medium there remains the safe destruction of the jobs settled in the territory that generate the crops, milk and meat producers, but the processing industries of prestigious name, and the hectares of woodland and mountain directly and indirectly affected, in which investment costs were made in the European concentration and subsidy processes. In Paladin Romanian, that maraña of companies is going to take out of our soil millions of tons of raw material, which will in principle generate about 350,000 tons of material, with a wealth of 27%, which will be auctioned into the international market, which will temporarily disappear and return as a product made, with a very high added value that has given labor and economic benefit away from us. We stay with the garbage, the risk and the contamination; other fences carry the benefit. And then we're fools? The mine is now a barren land, similar to a desert or the surface of a lifeless planet. In this territory, greens of all kinds are currently stored; one can find from industrial muds to a shell of mussels, passing through ashes from Sogama. That is, a macro-deposit of waste of all kinds, without treatment and without control, without observing in appearance no insulating storage precautions. Will you have some kind of permission? Will you know the Environmental Council that exists and what is stored there? Was anyone in the Council ever out there taking a walk and smelling with the hangovers that can smell there? We're fine with our heads ignoring uncontrollable spills of this kind, many of them in the high parts of the river basins, essential for the current supply and future of drinking water to human populations of high demographic consideration?, are we okay with the head? For the mine is currently a macro-deposit of contaminating wastes, fruit of the lamentable state in which the previous mining activity ended in 1986, and when it was seen all this time all sorts of dangerous wastes. There was no restoration; there was a government, by the way of the PP, insensitive and impassable, which did not force or promote any kind of restoration and which allowed and allows the current contamination of waters that end in the Ulla. This storage of dangerous waste that we denounce is there waiting for a restoration that someone will have to do. Certainty three: a mining activity of this size eliminates grain farms by disappearing their land base, reduces crop and fruit production and is a brake on many investment projects that are being carried out in the agricultural sector, and is a mortgage for any development of processing activities related to this sector. The planned mining won't create any productive tissue in the area, just a small generation of temporary, low-skilled jobs, which at all cost compensates by far all the damage, that will be forever. It's a kind of mining of the 19th century, consisting of extracting a resource to favor exclusively foreign companies and leaving pollution here. And last of all, the unanimous agreement of three council corporations, unanimous!, positioned against the project: Bull, Teo and Vila de Cruces. And the firm belief that we are defending the interests of the economy and the well-being of an area already punished by the handovers of a police mine, which has left its footprint, and in what way! in the neighborhood. The firm conviction that we will be in favour of the common sense and of the present and future interests of the people of Touro and of the people who inhabit the whole of Ulla, to the extent that the waters of the river are saturated with the salt of the Atlantic, forming that unique source of resources called "Arousa's River". We are therefore facing the four predation in favour of the land people, and in this legitimacy we demand the refusal of the permit to open the mining activity, we demand strict compliance with the law concerning the storage of contaminant wastes in the mine space and the immediate restoration by the landowner. Is it reasonable or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. Mr Losada Álvarez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating again in this Parliament the question of the Pino-Touro mine, the project of cupriferous exploitation. This is part of that growth-development dynamics, and that always requires a macroeconomic approach and a microeconomic approach. As happens almost every time you talk at the end of the morning or the afternoon, I always have something to learn from the People's Party. And at the macroeconomic level I have a phrase without any doubt, which partially brought the Mr. President this morning about the situation of Spain in 2011, when the Socialist Government lost the elections and Mr. Rajoy came to the government, which is Mr. Montoro's sentence: "Let her fall we'll raise her already." Yes, I know you're upset; I know you're upset, and I'm very sorry. [[Murmurs.]] But, in any case, that is the macroeconomic framework of the analysis of who governs us in Galicia and Spain. And then, after Mr. President of the Galician Union, there was an even more acute spokesperson from the People's Group, speaking at the micro-economic level of the labour market. And also here I have a sentence, that's the sentence of a Member in Congress of Deputies in the province of Castellón, who was talking about the unemployed: "Fuck it!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Applause]] So this is the frame where we move. I say this to place the level of the economic debates that the speakers give us, and in this case the President of the Galician Union. Well, indeed, the environmental situation of the former exploitation of Peñarroya-Riotinto until the year — as Mr Rivas Cruz said — of 1986 — is in absolutely regrettable environmental terms. And it is true that the obligations to restore mines, with laws of franchise or post-Franquism, in particular 1973 and 1977, because they were, in any case, fading the economic position of companies of: we exploited mine resources and left. This, in this autonomous community, has attempted to change. It's true that sometimes laws start changing reality, but they don't get it automatically; we don't have to fool ourselves either. But it is true that the Law of 2008 of Galician mining, the first law of an autonomous community throughout Spain, of a government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño — a coalition government with nationalists, with the Galego Nationalist Block — favours precisely that guarantee of environmental recovery of mining operations. I like to put this in value because, recognizing the problems that undoubtedly exist at this time in Touro and Pino, because I think it is fair to claim — as I say in some way — that effort to change the mine development framework. And, of course, there are many issues involved in this project. When we discussed this earlier it was not yet or at least this Member did not have the report of the Galician Natural History Society, which actually refers to the issues we have already discussed in that debate, on issues related to water and on issues related to physical safety, the environmental impact of the exploitation itself and, of course, all the schedule of restoration prior to that possible exploitation and subsequent restoration. And, in the same way, the need for insurance guarantees and financial guarantees requiring companies to bear the costs of environmental restoration of farms. And not that that goes into the public realm and that we are the citizens who end up paying with public money that concept or criterion that we, of course, defend that "who contaminates, pays." This is the general framework where we move. The Socialist Group does not like the project presented by the company. We think it's a failed project and it's a disconnected project of the territorial, socio-economic and socio-demographic reality of the place where it is located. The amendment we tabled — it is a long amendment — I think it reflects — or at least this Member has tried to reflect — that we do not like this project. I mean, the changes that appear here were actually going to bring the whole project back to the project presented by the company Minas de Copper San Rafael. But in the same way, we understand that in the case of the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block, the first of the points to us as it appears, without adjectives: "Refusing the reopening of mining" — that we have to understand in addition that it is in that mine, because it could be in any other — I mean that it is a point that we as such do not accept. I insist we don't like this project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u137	Finally, Mr President. Of course, in point 2 and point 3 we agree absolutely. We would ask the Galician Nationalist Block to allow us to vote separately on point 1 if we did not accept our amendment. But what I want to make clear — and it seems to me that it is from our political position the most relevant — is that the San Rafael mining project in Touro is not only a project that does not satisfy the Socialist Group but at all responds to the concept of economic development that we socialists defend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u138	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u139	Good morning, everyone. Well, of course, we're going to vote in favour of the non-law proposal put forward by the BNG, since it's very similar to the one defended by this group in the plenary a month ago. Even though we were going a little further, asking for the suspension of the concession process until the restoration commitments required in the previous concession were met. I'm sure the People's Group will answer the same thing as a month ago: the law will be fulfilled. But, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is already ahead of you that the law will not be complied with, simply because it complies with the law and perform all the actions so that the environmental impact had been mitigated would make the lying not profitable. And no company puts in place an exploitation knowing it won't be profitable. As we have already commented on the presentation of our non-law proposal, the history of the promotional company in the exploitation of Riotinto, in Huelva, demonstrates what they understand to comply with the law. Let's hope that the People's Group's criterion on what it is to comply with the law does not match that of Atalaya Mining, because then the consequences for the inhabitants of that region, for the Ulla River and, finally, for the entire ecosystem of the Arousa River could be catastrophic. I'm going to quote them — to put people who are not totally up to date what this project is going to be like — some aspects of the Glaga Natural History Society's report on the environmental impact project presented by the company itself that opts for exploitation, so that we are aware of what we have ahead. It says the report: "The so-called sterile deposits are really permanent lode rafts contained by dams of 2,806 and 3,187m in length and heights of up to 74 and 81m, which would be encapsulated at the end of their useful life. In the event of a failure of the enormous sayings, which would surround the village of Arinteiro on two of the three sides less than 250m away from the houses. The study presented by the promoter recognizes that it would have consequences...—textually speaking the study—...very high in terms of loss of human lives, environmental damage and economic loss. And that without evaluating its effects on the special areas of protection of the Ulla-Deza river system, the threatened species, the fishing and seafood richness of the Arousa River and the inter-seady wetland of Umia-O Grove-Carreirón." It also says the report of the Galician Natural History Society: "In so-called sterile deposits..."—as the applicant company itself acknowledges—"... several chemical compounds used to separate copper would remain indefinitely stored: toxic and irritant, and may be harmful to aquatic fauna; and, above all, — as they already know in many places in the world — isopropyl ethyl thionocarbamate (no less than 2,475 metric tons) that will remain there forever: irritant, allergic, harmful to people, suspected of causing cancer, harmful to aquatic organisms, with long-term and not easily biodegradable effects. Well, the truth is, by listening to this in the company's own report, the hair gets tipped off. That's why we demand that the authorisation process be paralysed, that before we begin the processing of the new mine clearance, we restore all the damage caused by the old Riotinto mine. But as a suspensive condition, not as the first condition of the new authorization; if not within twenty years we will be in the same situation as we are now, but with thousands of times more toxic waste. And I'm sure the Popular Parliamentary Group will also call us "catastrophists." But if you want to check a catastrophe go to Huelva and look at the consequences of the operation of the same company in the old mine that Riotinto had there too, and see the consequences throughout the area, from River Tinto to the outlet in Huelva. We'll also be told about jobs. The reality is that after thirty-one years the only thing left in Touro and The Pino of the previous exploitation is depopulation, environmental impact, economic impact... they only have to talk to people from all over that area to really verify that the socio-economic or environmental impact is obviously going to be disastrous. But if the economic impact is positive and hundreds of jobs are not destroyed in the tourism industry, in the development possibilities of an area that 15 kilometres away from an international airport, as it is already beginning to happen, could be a development polygon of technological industries, especially in the biotechnology industry. That's the future and the new mine would only be dead for the county.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u141	By all means, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, they urge the Government to suspend the concession process until the environmental situation is restored, as compromised by the previous concession. It's something that has not been accomplished at that time. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u142	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u143	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're in front of a new chapter in the series, not mine. He first touched Corcoesto, then Edinsa and now back to the Touro-O Pino project. Mr. Rivas, you, such a friend of stories and legends, will allow me to tell you a story too. A story whose protagonist is a Nationalist Industry Counsellor, Fernando Blanco, of a two-party government between PSOE and BNG, who promoted and approved the Galician Mining Act on 13 May 2008. The councilman himself spoke of that "it was a law that responded to the necessary updating of the Welsh mining sector, which sets a stable framework, legal certainty and rules for administrations, employers and workers. Which will mean that mining development in our country is done under parameters of normality, responsibility and environmental respect." What's left of this, Mr. Rivas? In this debate, the BNG spokesman said that "the BNG Parliamentary Group wishes to stress the importance of Galician mining activity, both in job creation and in GDP". What's left of this, Mr. Rivas? Watch out, he also said, "The Welsh mining activity, like any mining activity, is located where the resources are. You can't play with your location, you have to get the resource where it is." What's left of this, Mr. Rivas? Both that group and the socialist and the councilman were very happy, very pleased to have passed this law and assumed that it was a pioneering law in the state. A law which, in Title IV — I would like to remind you — establishes an integrated procedure for granting that simplifies administrative intervention — what would you say? — and that for persons applying for mine rights, administrative management is improved and accelerated. Mr. Rivas and Mr. Losada, you know that the Bipartite was doing well in the morning, but in the evening they didn't trust each other. That is why they call: Article 4 gave the Council of the European Union an assessment of the "direction and coordination of the Community's mining policy"; but in paragraph (c): to agree exceptionally, subject to the justification of the public interest, the granting of mining rights in the event of unfavourable pre-emptive reports, if any. You were being able to license if there were unfavorable preceptive reports. But, on the other hand, Article 16 provides in point 1: "Without prejudice to the functions assigned to the Board of Trustees in Article 4, the competent mining body is..."—attention!— "...the person holding the competent council in the field of mines in the Community, to whom it is responsible to grant the rights of miners, to authorize their amendments, transmissions, renewals, extensions", etc. That is, all powers to the Nationalist Counsellor, but monitored by the Board of Trustees as a corrective body. Mr Rivas, Your Honor on the left of this parliament, do you agree with the statement made by the Bipartite Industry Counsellor?, do you still agree with the Mining Law that you approved in 2008 and that this current government is applying with loyalty? Because, if so, what is this position against the mining sector and any project that is presented in Galicia? I want to tell you, Mr. Losada and Mr. Rivas: a real exercise of political cynicism. Mr. Rivas, I say with all due respect: this could well be a proposal with obvious authoritarian and dictatorial dyes, because they ask that the law that you yourself have approved be violated and that you reject a project without even processing it and evaluating it. I mean, they ask you to do what BNG wants, what BNG commands and orders, point. [[Applause]] I'm clear that they bring this initiative not to want to defend the neighbors or because they're concerned about the environment or help, no, bring it in to confront the People's Party, to try to get us past the bad and insensitive, and to confront the neighbors, with the platform and, by the way, to divide society and try to get some political income; that's the only reason. For I tell you that they will not succeed, for our group follows the same position as a month ago: regarding the law, regarding administrative procedures, with regard to democracy, with regard to workers and public officials, who freely do their work faithfully to all the Greeks; loyalty not to the BNG, nor to the PP, nor to any political group, loyalty to the people of Galicia. [[Applause]] So we again went to the neighbors of Touro and O Pino to transfer to them a message of absolute procedural normality and tranquility. Because, as I said in the previous debate and even at the meeting that we held on the platform, we did not stand in favour of or against the project, which continues its processing, making it clear that it is a mining project, and will only be authorized when the urban, environmental and technical standards are guaranteed. There's no oblivion here, and there's no looking anywhere else. The Directorate-General himself — and you know — has requested fourteen reports, which continue to be dealt with these days, and continues to respond to the allegations to different administrations and associations, and among which the municipalities themselves were. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear criterion: compliance with the law, always; you, only when they rule? Finished, Mr. Rivas. The story concludes with a reflection of any Welshman. You said: Is it reasonable? I'm going to tell you: what is the BNG we have to pay attention to? Is it the one who, for example, who is in the opposition who criticizes with virulence the opening of large commercial surfaces, for example, or to the BNG that when he governs in four years the double of permits that the PP in eight years? Or do we have to listen to the BNG who criticizes closing schools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u144	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u145	...unitary when they have less than six students, or the BNG that when they rule they have closed an average of twenty schools a year with seven or more than seven students? Or the BNG that when he accused us of favoring private health, and when he ruled the Bipartite, he signed more agreements with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u146	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u147	...private health that ever? - I'm done, President. So what does BNG believe, that it maintains a fierce persecution of the mining sector and manifests itself totally contrary to any project, or to the BNG that, when ruling, approves a Law of Galician mining, grant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u149	...more than 100 research permits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u151	...and forty-three operating concessions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u153	We're going to reject your initiative because they ask the Government of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u154	Thank you, Mr. Blanco, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u155	...that claudique and we won't allow it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u156	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to start at the end: what kind of PP do we listen to? Gürtel or Boimorto's? Or Boimorto's? Or that of Boimorto, which uses 10% of the votes of a free democratic election to... how is it clear? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's true. And then they have to wash their faces because the candidate has to go out pitting on the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Of course! [[Murmurs.]] What kind of PP do we listen to? [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, legitimately and democratically, democratically!...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u158	Silence! Mr. Peace, be quiet! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u159	...six conchlers against five. That's the democracy you don't want!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u160	Silence! Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u161	Mr. President, you have to take my time off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u162	No, no, he's right. Go to the subject and be quiet. If you don't know, we'll temporarily suspend, which is the best thing for us. [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please. Go ahead, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u163	Look at you, there's a platform that we're faithful to. There's a platform that manages to gather in a magusto against the mine more than 200 people, in a rural environment that is impoverished and torn apart by the policies of the People's Party. It is necessary for this autonomous community — as you call it — to make it clear that we are not willing to go through a sporadic mining and a mining that breaks and bursts resources. Because if you have it for good — and from here I publicly propose an institutional visit to the mine — you can see how much resources have been squandered lately at a concentration of mountains, which is beautiful and which will go to the train station as this goes on. Of course we will accept the vote by points, because it is not only the paron of this project, it is the paron of all mining activity in these conditions, which are conditions of Katanga and Burundi, which I remember with Mr Leopoldo, the king of Belgium, back in prehistoric times. It's the same, with forgiveness for Katanga and Burundi. And besides, we're talking about a mine that right now is a dump of shit — with forgiveness, Mr. President — it's a dump of the worst shit there can be, which is the one that's threatening the entire river course of Ulla and that can lead to an ecological disaster like that of Aznalcollar. Or don't you remember that Aznalcollar was there too and he was...... yes, yes—innocent? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] She was harmless! [[Murmurs.]] He's not throwing balloons out and blaming him for a law you didn't vote for. They didn't vote for the Constitution as part of you, but now they're defending the cover and the sword, and they're going to get stuck in it to take repressive policies into the politician. Man, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Freedom is what bothers you, it's been bothering you all your life. I remember, I remember, I remember. I remember and I remember a lot of Lugo people who then became part of their party squigging the gun in the sports pavilion, caramba! That's right, that's right, caramba! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What interests does everyone defend? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u164	Quiet. Peace, silence. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u165	Right now, gentlemen, right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u166	Quiet. Mr. Pazos, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u167	I'm sorry right now to look like you, Mr. Tellado. Right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u168	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u169	Right now, what we have to pick up is what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u170	Calm down, everyone! A little quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u171	...defense yourself and what we defend. You defend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u172	We have guests, eh! We have guests, quiet. A little quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u173	We're calm!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u174	Please, everybody quiet, eh! And that's it, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u175	You defend the interests of certain spoly companies; we defend the interests of the people of the ground, which is what we defend with greater or lesser accuracy the whole fist of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u176	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the demands of union representatives of the staff of the Administration of Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u177	Proposal for a non-law of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira. No amendments were tabled. Mr. Villares has the floor to make the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the demands of the representatives of the workers and the workers, it is the demands of all the workers and the employees of the Administration of Justice, today represented by the union representatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u179	No, no, please, no, no. Please, the rostrum is not allowed any kind of demonstration either in favor or against. I ask you, please, to comply with what is set out in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. They're our guests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u180	...the ones we used to greet, who agreed to initiate a claim of their rights with a strike that last day 1 had a broad follow-up with an average of over 80%, also expression of the unity of all workers and workers in this claim. In Marea we consider their claims fair and that's why we assume them and bring them to this chamber. It's time to bring justice to the workers and to the workers of justice. During the last seven years, the more the social drama derived from the cuts imposed by Europe and from the antisocial pact of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, justice has become the last bulwark of the welfare state, the space that would be used in demand for protection; the protection, firstly, of basic social rights to live with dignity, as was the case with housing, against evictions, against courts of light, abuses of banking scams, ground clauses, abusive and fraudulent denials of dependency benefits, against abuses against workers and workers in contractual relations for redundancy, slave labor, wage discrimination, etc. Then, this claim has been extended to the defendants in the defence of public freedoms in the face of abusive fines by the police for exercising the right of manifestation and freedom of expression, severely threatened by the approval of the Mordaza Law. And finally, in the protection of public institutions and the money of all and everyone in the face of the widespread and institutionalized looting by those who ruled, which led to the dubious honour to deserve even in relation to the People's Party the status of party investigated by diversion of public funds, misrepresentation and other corrupt practices. In short, it was the Administration of Justice that tried to preserve fundamental rights, public freedoms, basic social rights and justice in the management of public money in the face of abuse of power. And none of this would be preserved without the self-sufficient work of the workers and the workers of justice. We brought to this chamber on other occasions demands from other groups, who have also made great sacrifices during these years of economic recession — social crisis from which we have not yet left — and who were supposed to be affected by their work — people of health, education personnel,... — a recognition also for all those years of self-sacrifice. It's time to also acknowledge the surrender of the employees of the Administration of Justice in this chamber. We've often fallen into the temptation to think that justice alone is done by judges and judges or prosecutors, but the judicial function would be impossible without your work, so from here the recognition of En Marea and my own as a public representative and as a worker of Justice. And we're talking about concrete demands, because they're many and they're fair. First of all, by applying the principle of equality, something basic in the idea of justice. Since the Order of 19 January 2010, in which the amount of the transitional autonomic complement of the Administration of Justice staff was determined, wage differences have been established between these personnel in the different autonomous communities, wage perception that replaced a previous target supplement. The workers and the workers patiently stopped this situation all this time. If there wasn't, there wasn't for anyone. Well, there's always been for someone. Because during the time of the cuts, the money will be diverted to the private bank; a money that has never returned, at least 38,000 million euros, as the governor of the Banco de España himself acknowledged, and will never do as Minister De Guindos himself acknowledged. In 2018, the German Government came here to present some budgets and said that in 2018 we will have the level of wealth, the highest GDP in history, the greatest wealth. Well, it's time for that wealth to end discrimination, in this case wage, like this. That's why our first point is that it must be the following: "Insulting the Board to convene the sectoral table and negotiate with trade union organizations with representation among the staff of Justice to achieve an equalization of the salaries and complements of the staff of the Judicial Administration in Galicia with their counterparts from other autonomous communities." But it's not the only unfair situation that this collective of workers is suffering. When a sick person has to pay his mortgage as well, he has to pay his bills, he has to eat equally, regardless of the work he develops. Well, inside the Greek judicial offices, if you get us the flu, the judge, the judge or the lawyer of the Justice Administration don't have any discounts to get off, but the rest of the judicial office does. There must be first virus and second virus, or you should think that some people take it down for vice. In addition, there is an inequality in the treatment of the Greek civil servant with respect to other communities about these supplements in the economic benefits and in the situation of temporary disability and other situations protected by Decree 169/2013. A double discrimination therefore within the office in relation to the judges and lawyers of the Administration of Justice, and also with respect to other autonomous communities. That is why we believe that it is now necessary to negotiate and reach an agreement so that there is no wage discrimination in the field of Justice in the perception of the supplementation of benefits due to temporary and similar disability. But the situation of injustice in which this collective is found is still going further. We have a situation where with more workload we have fewer workers and less workers doing those functions. It's the injustice of doing less work. And we said more work because the official statistics themselves of the General Council of the Judiciary revealed that during the years of economic crisis, even with the imposition of judicial fees that prevented effective access to justice, if there was an even greater collapse of the Administration of Justice because, for example, in social justice, the abuses that occurred in the interpretation of labor reforms led to an absolute deprotection of the working class. This has also caused a higher rise in the already collapsed administration of justice, which suffers in a structural way. Well, with this greater workload, we had to suffer from a number of staff cuts. According to the organizations and representatives of workers and workers, one hundred and six personnel units have been depreciated in the service of the Administration of Justice, only in Galicia, since 2012, with which their function has been diminished. And we said understated because not only were they less sharing the same work, but they were less sharing more work, recognized by the General Council of the Judiciary. Thus, there are situations of overwork, collapse and problems when real and effective justice is achieved that guarantee the restoration of the rights of the affected people. We're not talking here just about the rights of a collective, we're talking about the rights of the whole society. All of us when we go to the Administration of Justice, we have the right to obtain justice and we have the right to obtain a judicial resolution in a reasonable time without undue delay. And to get that does not depend solely on the number of judges and judges or prosecutors, but also on the fact that there are judicial offices that can process properly and in time these files so that they can reach a good end also when they put final judicial resolutions. That is why it is necessary, in relation to this paragraph too, to restore the amortised squares since the year 2012, especially in areas of special concern. We saw during this summer the judicial collapse as it did really dramatic quotas and which absolutely irresolvedly prevented the release of the administration of justice under the terms that are legally and constitutionally established. And finally, it also happens that in conditions of equal work you get less pay, with absolutely unjustified discrimination between workers and employees of the Administration of Justice; we're talking about the case of vertical replacements, where you don't charge 100 percent of the wages belonging to the occupied post. Of course, and the situation that might be asked is this: does the form of coverage of that post justify wage discrimination? We understand you don't. And no, why? Because if you're doing the same substitute job as what's done in the title regime. Therefore, the form of coverage should not condition that remuneration. And secondly, there is also no consolidation of reinforcement squares of more than three years, as if, on the other hand, it had committed itself to the Directorate-General of Justice. So, in this case, we are faced with a assumption of precarious work and temporality, which leads to insecurity for workers and workers, which is unjustified and which, in addition, presupposes failure to comply with the commitments reached or the commitments made by the Galician Union itself. That's why we consider it fair to equate salary substitutions with vertical replacements and, in addition, to consolidate those reinforcement squares that have been in place for more than three years. Finally, we understand that these are just demands for decent working conditions, which allow for agile and effective justice. And I insist on this idea: it's not unique and exclusively improvements for workers and workers, it's a series of improvements necessary for the provision of a public service, which is essential for the guarantee of democracy, the protection of fundamental rights and the protection of public freedoms. That is why we believe that the whole House today must support these initiatives that bring representatives and representatives of workers and workers of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u181	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Well, okay, let's just leave it there, but it's not like that. I think I told them respectfully what it is. I understand what you're doing, because I know the language of the symbols, but it wasn't right, and that's why I ask them to behave according to what we've established in the Rules of Procedure. And I don't think it'll cost them that much. Thank you. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u182	Good morning. From here we also want to send a greeting to the representation of the trade union organizations that are present, to transfer our support to their fair claims, as we have done at the meeting we held, and also to this initiative presented in the House. We are fully convinced that the personnel of the Administration of Justice suffer from an injustice, which is the result of policies of spoliation of incomes and rights, both labour and democratic, applied on the pretext of the crisis, and in what was an offensive, both against the working class and especially against the civil servant, which in these years has lost 23% of their purchasing capacity. Some policies that have been implemented over these years, since 2009, with enthusiasm by the People's Party, and not only by the People's Party, and which have resulted, among other things, in the deterioration and dismantling of public services, and in this case we refer to the deterioration of the administration of justice, which is an example of a book. And in the face of the propaganda of the People's Party and Mr. Rueda, which boast of all the investments and all the improvements, the reality is that the Administration of Justice has suffered staff reductions in these years, suffered and suffered serious problems in buildings and workplaces, the worsening of management, the malfunctioning of computer platforms, which would be a panacea, or that scandalous reduction and wage discrimination compared, for example, to other territories of the State. Absolutely regressive and discriminatory measures, which the People's Party defends with enthusiasm, and in which it is an advanced student. For this limited situation has led to the organisation of a series of mobilisations by the seven trade unions on a unitary union platform, with absolutely fair demands, such as ending that aggravation of the autonomic complement, which is the second lowest in all communities with transferred competences, and which in some cases reaches up to 10,000 euros a year compared to other communities. Well, here, according to the General Directorate, there is a legal impediment in labour regulations to approve the improvement and end this damage, while in other communities, with the same regulations, for example in Asturias or Madrid, have adopted favourable measures. Secondly, it also seems to us that we must end this absolutely unfair punishment on the disease imposed by the People's Party in 2013, which aims to do business with people's health. It must be said here that not only discrimination is given within the same judicial office, as has already been said, but also with respect to other territories. This step does not apply in the territory of the Ministry, nor in communities such as Navarre or Aragon. It also seems to us a fair demand to consolidate the reinforcements of more than three years. And what union organizations are asking here is absolutely reasonable, is that a relationship with these reinforcements is developed and that a progressive timetable for consolidation is also adopted. Fourthly, also the need for equal pay in substitutions, applying a principle that is an absolutely principle of social justice, as equal pay for equal work. And finally, there's also the demand for increased staff, recovering those over 100 jobs, around 5% of the total that has been lost since 2013, and that affects mostly those judged as peacemakers, such as those in the litigation, such as those in the family, who accumulate blockades, collapses and workloads in judgments that are fundamental. So in order to deal with this situation, trade union organizations organized a negotiation calendar with a totally negative response from the Administration of Greek Justice. Secondly, a calendar of mobilizations, which had as a culminating point a strike, which was a genuine historic day, on December 1st, that was also a day of dignity for the staff of the Administration of Justice, with an absolutely massive follow-up of more than 85%, and where they showed the lack of negotiating capacity and the lack of flexibility by Mr. Rueda's Directorate-General of Justice. A new strike has been convened for December 17th, and the People's Party and the Galician Union have a great opportunity here today and they also have the responsibility to end these abuses, to end this discrimination to really improve the labour situation, the rights and, in general, the situation of the Administration of Justice. That's why we want to tell you here, as union organizations say: "At once, listen: Justice is in conflict!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u183	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u184	Thank you, President. Good morning, good afternoon now. I also want to take advantage of this non-law proposal to greet the trade union organizations representing the workers and the workers of Justice who are in the gallery: USO, CUT, UGT, CSIF, STAJ, CIG and Workers' Commissions. They are seven trade union organizations that give evidence — and never said better on a subject like this — that, indeed, justice is not in a good situation. Seven trade union organizations that are united to claim the rights of workers and workers of Justice, who are not economic rights, are rights of the dignity of their job, of the dignity of their work, which ultimately is the dignity of a public service that at some point unfortunately affects us all. Justice for many years is the poor cousin of all ministries, the poor cousin of all councils. And I'm going to give some examples: just a couple of years ago, some of the officers of Justice told me they couldn't ask for pilot pens anymore, but they had to ask for Bic pens, because they were much cheaper, and the Council didn't serve them any more. Digital platforms are an absolute shame, they fall daily. Zero paper is not true that it does not exist, it is still using paper; printers are breaking because nothing is done but photocopying what comes digitally to the judges. Missing staff. And in Tui several officials are put in — I'm going to use the expression if the president leaves me — in a 25-square-meter spoonful, where they die asphyxiated in the summer and they go cold in the winter. That's the situation of Justice. And we're not dramatizing, if we were dramatizing union representatives they wouldn't be up there. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour. Too bad the Vice President of the Board, who will now come to answer an interpellation from our parliamentary group just on this subject, did not come a few minutes earlier, and so I could also see the interventions in this non-legislative proposal. The petition for a non-law proposal and all sorts of initiatives was collective by the unions, and that is why the parliamentary groups bring this issue to this House today. Justice personnel are a national body, transferred to our community in the 1990s. And what also shows that this is an absolutely exceptional situation is that it's the first time in Justice there's a strike of workers and workers in such a time. The first time in history since Justice has been transferred to our autonomous community. There were general strikes, followed differently, but with little follow-up in any case, and there was an attempt to strike in 2003, which, in the end, did not end up crystallizing. But the day of day 1 was the first time in Galicia there was a strike in Justice. The situation is exceptional. I was talking about the BNG spokesman for the mobilizations. The first mobilization was on November 16th, relatively competitive. It was a concentration in front of the headquarters of the judges of the seven main cities of Galicia, and there were concentrations at the time of coffee, and that's why there were not too many people, because there were workers and workers who were inside doing their work. The second was the strike on December 1st, and because between November 16th and December 1st, as since about nine years ago, there was no dialogue. And in that strike mobilization, what happened was that about two thousand and two hundred workers and workers went to strike, about two thousand and eight hundred across Galicia. The follow-up was total, for example, on Cangas, on the Road, on Marin, on Porriño, 100 percent of the workers went off strike, and then about 80% and 90% in Galicia turned around. Then the vice president will come and tell us it was 50%, but, well, that's your data, which we've already met. The fact is that the strike was followed in a multitude of ways by workers and workers, because nothing was offered by the Council. If in more than twenty years nothing has been offered, much less will be offered in fifteen. With that day's strike, all the sights of that day were suspended, except for very special circumstances. But on December 1st, the workers and the workers are so dedicated to their work that they set off on Friday; on Friday — December 1st, Friday — there are practically no views in the courts, there are no judgments. So there's been almost no suspension. December 13th is Wednesday, and Wednesday will be seen. And I would like that the vice president of the board — when he comes in, I'll tell him later because I'm going to have occasion — asked those people who have been in Santiago for two years waiting for his trial, if he suspended his trial on December 1st, or if he's going to suspend his trial on day 13th, so they've been waiting, at least two years, for the president of the board to put to those people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u186	Yes, I'm going to finish. We are going to vote in favour of the bill. And about the content of the workers' and workers' requests, the representatives of Justice, I'll talk about it later in our interpellation. And we think it's a shame the vice president isn't a little earlier, and I hope you vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. I want to welcome the union representatives of the Administration of Justice. And the Administration of Justice is worrying about the People's Parliamentary Group and the Council of Galicia, and the facts are there, they're on a plan of judicial infrastructure, which is not just a plan, it's a plan that is being implemented, and you know it well. And we are also concerned about these demands made on this initiative, for which, by the way, the Director General of Justice has already convened the strike committee for the next day 7, to try to put common positions on these issues. With regard to the autonomic supplement, this is a supplement which is currently set at EUR 435.78 per month, which adds the amount of EUR 9.80 per month per productivity; so in 2017 it represents EUR 445.58 per month for each official. And that regardless of the official body to which it belongs, because it was negotiated — to us surprisingly — in 2008, making an inexplicable equalization between bodies that need different access titrations and that perform tasks with different degrees of responsibility. But here, Mr. Villares, you acted with some sort of pillage on your initiative, because it slips that this autonomic supplement in 2009 was 125 euros monthly. It's not true, it's not right. What the order itself says is that the supplement was 445, which assumed a linear increase of 125 euros monthly. But the supplement wasn't 125 euros a month. On the other hand, Mrs Vilán, on the subject of office materials, I think it would be good for you to speak to Mr Villares, since the Group of En Marea proposed in these budgets a reduction in the departure of office materials in the courts of EUR 150,000. I don't know how you can combine your request with En Marea's request. But, in any case, what is true is that this parliamentary group is aware that, after several years of crisis and asking for economic sacrifices to the entire self-government public sector, it must negotiate an improvement in the specific complement of these officials; among other things, linked to the development of the new judicial office. And all this, of course, within the legal limits which mark the applicable legislation and the percentage of authorized wage mass. And all this is possible because at the time, an effort was made by officials, by public employees, and today we can face it and try to speak to improve these conditions. With regard to IT — which comes from Decree No. 169/2013 — it is a matter that reaches the entire civil service autonomously and we are waiting for it to be reregulated. But we agree, Mr Villares, that we should also encourage the expansion of the suppositions in which a supplement can be established up to a maximum of 100 per cent of the salaries, thus equating those established for magistrates, prosecutors and judicial lawyers. As for depreciations, let me tell you that they're not depreciations. There was a plan in 2012 to change the staff squares where a series of squares that could be amortized were contemplated. Why? For all of this is linked — as you will know — to a reordination of troops, mostly in peace trials. But that meant that in parallel with the vacant squares were going to be creating squares for other needs or for new trials or reinforcements. So the truth is that since 2009 111 official squares and 14 psychologists and social workers have been created. As for vertical replacements, Mr. Villares, here is the Union's will to try to equate what the replacement charges with the replacement. But you know, or you should know, that the High Court of Justice, I suppose you will know it and I suppose you will know a number of judgments in this issue that prevent the application of this supplement, because it says the judgment — a 2011 judgment — that it is not in an immediate manner the adoption of a productivity supplement that seeks to compensate for some pay differences between different bodies; it says that it is a "denaturalization of the productivity supplement". So there's a willingness to match it, but there are judgments that prevent it from happening. I don't know, Mr. Villares, it would be convenient for you to explain to us whether En Marea is in favor of fulfilling the judgments of the High Court of Justice or not. Because here's a difficult obstacle to match. And therefore, in view of these judicial statements, we cannot support this point. Yes, we are going to support the rest of the points, because we advocate improving these conditions. And finally, tell you that the Galician Union will proceed — as you should know — to the consolidation of the reinforcement squares for more than three years. This is already in the draft budget law; in particular, 36 squares are planned. Therefore, Mr. Villares, it seems to us that your initiative is certainly opportunistic. The strike committee is already convened for the next day 7, and there's already the desire of the board to try to find agreements on these issues. And so we can tell you that if you allow us to vote on points, we're going to vote on all the points but on vertical replacements. But not because we don't want to be equal, but because today, even if it's happening in other communities, it can't be done in Galicia, because the Council of Galicia has no way to do so by rulings from the High Court of Justice. So we're on the verge of trying to comply with the judgments. Don't I know if you agree to follow this sentence of compliance? And what we have to look for is to push for a regulatory change to try to make sure that this issue can be resolved in some way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u190	But, therefore — I insist — we will support this initiative by supporting all but this point. But I'm telling you, not because of lack of political will, but because there are impediments to judicial judgments. For our part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u191	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the proposal, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, thank you for your support for the initiative. It's not an initiative of En Marea, it's an initiative of the whole of workers and workers of justice, and it's therefore simply an initiative of all the people we assume as our own, it's a demand for social justice and better public service. We are humble representatives and we simply bring these demands from people, and from people who do not resign themselves to a situation of inequality that they were living under the policies of the People's Party. What we're seeing -- and his intervention demonstrates it again -- is that without a clear and firm claim on the part of workers and workers there is no recovery of rights. And, therefore, there is no recovery of the living and well-being conditions that we had before the recession, and that we haven't left because we haven't left the social crisis you've been in. But we are grateful, of course, that they welcome and commit themselves in this chamber to take on the demands of workers and workers. In this sense — and since he talks about budgets — I will remind him of two things: We applied for a reduction of EUR 150,000, indeed, in certain material, because we wanted to be consistent with their own claim that there was already zero role in the Administration of Justice. If there's zero paper, they won't need that much money for sheets, will they? So if that's not the case, then you're recognizing your own failure of your propaganda in this matter. But in addition to this, in budgetary matters In Marea has introduced a number of amendments; in the case of amendments to the whole have already been rejected in this chamber, but the debate on partial amendments remains. In this debate of partial amendments we have made a number of proposals for economic adjustment to satisfy the demands that workers and workers made, and that you now say you assume. If that is the case, we assume that you will have no problem in supporting these partial amendments during the budgetary debate. So negotiations with the workers and the workers do, but they have the chance to get rid of an excuse. They have an excuse and an argument to tell them: no, it's just that for 2018 it's impossible to satisfy all of this because we don't have money, because budgets don't allow it. Well, at Marea he places them in the position of being able to accept these amendments and, therefore, to satisfy with credits from the 2018 budgets the legitimate claims of a wage character that you actually say you share to end up with discrimination of the whole collective. So we thank you for assuming the three points. We accept the vote by points. And as for vertical substitutions, you refer to a case law, which is the one established by the High Court of Justice in accordance with other judgments of other courts, relating precisely to the non-targeting of the complement of productivity. But nothing prevents the public administration from setting the same criteria for the collection of that supplement as those produced in the rest of the bodies. Therefore, they might on the basis of the same criteria lay down the same measures to make a payment which is equivalent, with the same function or with another distinct function, but which, in any case, ends with wage discrimination, for a reason that it is necessary to remember and of which the courts of justice also took account — therefore, you would be acting perfectly within the law and within the law — and that the different form of coverage of a particular square does not justify a wage difference. And this, for example, was recalled by the European Union Court of Justice in its judgment of 22 December 2010 — a memory statement but I think it was that day — with regard to antiquity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u194	...and of the trienniums, where no justified differences were established to pay differently to those who were interim to those who were fixed-placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u195	Thank you, Mr. Villares. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals has been closed, we proceed to the vote on the proposals. Close the doors, please. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u196	We begin by voting, firstly, the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. [[Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Is there a transaction? He doesn't read.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u197	"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: 1. Advance in the conservation and dissemination of our traditional toponyms, particularly through the georeference work of the Nominaclator and microtoponyms, as well as the development of the collaborative application for the revision, correction and updating of the nominaclator of Galicia. 2. To review all areas of its competence to return legal toponymity to the places where regulations are complied with. And he urges the German Government to address the other institutions (councils, provincial deputies and the Spanish Government) to demand the use in all areas of official toponyms, the only legal form of which is Galicia."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u198	Thank you. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. César Manuel Fernández Gil and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in order to advance in the conservation and dissemination of our traditional toponymy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u199	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the launch by the Government of Galicia of the necessary assessments for the knowledge of improvement in the language competence of the student who participates in some of the multilingual programs that are being developed in the last courses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u200	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco. The amendment by the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group is not accepted, but it does accept the vote by points. Can we split the dots? Can you tell me how they separate? [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Points 3 and 6 and the rest. Let's vote first, points 3 and 6. We vote. Vote of points 3 and 6 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the reduction of wages and the precariousization of employment and working conditions registered in recent years, in particular regarding the recruitment of young persons, as well as the existing gender pay gap. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 39; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these two points are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u201	We vote for the rest of the points of this non-law proposition. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, except points 3 and 6, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the reduction of wages and the precariousization of employment and working conditions in recent years, in particular with regard to the recruitment of young persons, as well as the existing gender pay gap. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u202	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs. Amigo Díaz. Amendments to the Bloc and Socialist parliamentary groups are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the continuation of the Government of Greece with the transformation of health services by promoting its humanization in relation to the scientific-technical training of professionals and the human approach to the patient, in order to improve the response to the demands and expectations of citizenship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u203	We are now voting for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on information by the Galician Union regarding the progress of Guatemalan potato manure pests, the measures taken and planned to eradicate it, as well as the aid granted to alleviate the damage caused. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u204	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group — don't I know if it was defended by Mr Bará or Mrs Noa Presas? For Mrs Montse Prado, correct, at the initiative of Mrs Montse Prado. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the establishment by the Greek Government of December 1 as the Galician Dignity Day, as well as the regulation of the organization of commemorative activities on an annual basis. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u205	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz. The amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted, but a point-by-point vote would be accepted, accepting the point first and then the rest of the points. First of all, let us vote on the first point of this non-law proposal. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Wales in connection with the project to reopen the exploitation of the copper mine in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino presented by the company Cobre San Rafael, S.L., with the waste stored in the mine space, as well as the restoration of the soils and waters contaminated by the previous mining activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This point 1 of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u206	Let us now vote on the remaining points of this non-law proposal. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, except point 1, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Wales in connection with the project to reopen the operation of the copper mine in the Towns of Touro and Pino presented by the company Cobre San Rafael, S.L., with the waste stored in the mine space, as well as the restoration of the soils and waters contaminated by the previous mining activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, the rest of the points of this non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u207	Finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Luis Villares. One vote was accepted by points; in particular, the only point of discrepancy is point 4a. So we started voting on the... [[Murmurs.]] Is it the 4th? I had understood the 4 bis. All right, all right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So what's wrong is 4? [[Murmurs.]] What's the point where there's discrepancy? There are two four. What is PP not going to accept? We're done before. [[Murmurs.]] What is it? [[Laughter]] Or four first? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] First, let us vote on the 4th first. We vote. Voting of the first point 4 of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the demands of union representatives of the staff of the Administration of Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This first point is therefore rejected 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u208	And we now vote on the rest of the points of the non-law proposal. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de In Marea, except point 4, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the demands of union representatives of the staff of the Administration of Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. These points of this non-law proposal are therefore adopted. The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. And we continue with the agenda, which corresponds to item 5 of the agenda, which is the interpelerations. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and five other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the Government of Greece's Labour Policy in the Administration of Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u209	Mrs Vilán has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u210	Good day again. Again we greet the representatives of the workers and the workers of Justice and we greet the vice president, who has arrived before so, so far... Vice President, you should be waving a motion of censure in the province of Pontevedra, which is a pity that you didn't come to hear what all parliamentary groups were telling us about justice. [[Applause]] Whoever doesn't know the world of justice doesn't know it's a world where everything goes at another time; we imagine it's a world where everything goes at another time when we read news. It's a rhythm — as you might say in some way — more relaxed, slower, and in which perhaps much more than other administrations pay attention to those people who are ill-lucky to have to go to a court judge for their rights. The level of consideration that workers and workers of Justice have for citizens is very high. Unfortunately, that break in work also competes — and I will say it with all due respect — on them themselves; in them they have rarely been mobilized to claim their rights. And some of these times it is now at this time, being curiously you vice president of the government of Mr Feijóo and in charge of Justice, also Counsellor of Justice. Because there were other advisors of your party, Mr. Rueda, who were not in the same position — let's say — in block and, as the workers themselves say, of arrogance, sovereignty and prepotence in which you are installed to talk to them and to them. They're national bodies -- as I said before, when you weren't, I suppose you already know -- since about twenty-five years ago they're barely transferred, and this is the first time they've been on strike on December 1st. So if you were going to answer me that they're going for money, you can already change arguments; if in twenty years you haven't been for money, I'm sure this isn't about money. We're in a very exceptional situation. There are seven unions, the seven agree on these mobilisations. And these mobilizations can reach an indefinite strike in January. I hope not, I hope you will come out of that situation, as they said, of arrogance, pride and supremacy, so that they can come to an agreement and unlock that situation. You know there were concentrations on November 16th, there was a strike on December 1st. On that strike you're going to tell me some data probably, perhaps not, some data that really about 90% of the workers and workers of Justice went to the strike after twenty and so many years. All the media echoed these mobilisations: Europa Press, Faro de Vigo, Cadena Ser, La Voz de Galicia, Atlántico Diario, La Vanguardia, Praza.gal... Interestingly, the only thing that almost didn't echo that mobilization was the Television of Galicia, the Radio and Television Company of Galicia. Perhaps, as happened in Lalín, because Galician Radio and Television decides not to contrast the news with which it has to contrast and be where it has to be, but it may be that the General Media Directorate, which I believe depends on you, speaks to Galician Radio and Television and contrasts the information directly with you, and not in the place where they have to contrast it and where they have to be the workers and the workers, very good workers and workers on the other side. This remaining mobilization may be the day of December 13. You have Vice-Presidentship, Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice, and you don't understand the meaning of the word "dialogue", Mr. Vice-President. As I told you before, all the councillors of Justice sat with the unions, those of their party; you didn't sit down once, and it's been almost nine years in front of this council, not once! So, what are you asking, Counselor? Which ends with discrimination with respect to other autonomous communities in the transitional autonomic complement, between 3,000 and 10,000 euros; in the discounts for work incapacity outside Galicia they do not relax and here yes, neither do the rest of the staff of the judges, who we know do not depend on you, and what luck they do not depend on you!; with the fact that there are only sixteen weeks for parental and maternity leave, adoption or reception, and the rest of the officials, as promised by President Feijóo, will have eighteen; or in substitutions, where a hundred percent of wages are not paid when a higher body is replaced, while that happens in other autonomous communities. They demand you, Counsellor, that your Directorate-General of Justice, once, if you make use of it, if you empower yourself — which is a word that is very fashionable now — and that you open the negotiations with the seven unions and that you have already made the organs and the localities where the reinforcement squares will be consolidated. Counselor, you certainly know -- not to go too far to the places where these workers and workers are, because it won't, except to inaugurate some stone -- that there are reinforcement squares that have been in that situation for more than fifteen years. Actually, these are structural needs, it's not covering a reinforcement place. They complain about the elimination of a hundred and six squares since 2012, which means the greatest burden of work. You go to the Pontevedra Provincial Audience section in Vigo to tell you what's going on, ask yourself what's going on. I'm going to give you some more information: Galician Justice Officer's staff have lost on average between 2013 and 2016 the equivalent of three extraordinary wages. If you go to the fruit shop and ask for more tomatoes in a kilogram than you want, because the excuse is that the vice president of the board owes me about three extraordinary wages, I doubt very much that people in charge of the fruit shop will put more tomatoes in his basket. Well, that's what happens. You go through the fruit shops as well, besides the tried ones, and ask if they put tomatoes or no more when there are cuts to the officials of Justice. It's not true that 125 squares have been created since 2012, it's not true. It was 50, which were already covered by interiors, and 15, which were for psychosocial teams that did not belong to Justice. That's the reality, no 125 squares have been created. In proportion to the population, Galicia has almost 25% fewer staff than the rest of Spain, in Justice, 24.98% to be exact. And then there's the specific complement, which requires a separate mention. First, you speak of a judgement by the High Court of Justice of Galicia, but there is, as the spokesman of En Marea said, a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union that rightly says the opposite. And if you like the European Union so much, exactly like us and respect the hierarchical structure of the courts, you should apply that sentence and the problem was solved, you could have voted in favour of the previous initiative. The negotiation of this specific supplement began there in the year 2000, as counsellor Mr. Pillado. Between 2000 and 2008 it rose from zero to 435 euros in eight years. You've been almost nine, not one penny since the year 2008 until today, and you've been cutting in these last four years. The specific complement received by officials in Galicia is the third lowest of the twelve autonomous communities in which justice is transferred to Galicia, between 8% and 15% less than the rest, depending on the categories. Finally, Counsellor, a situation of discrimination, of job insecurity, which ultimately, as I said before, affects the worst quality of public service to citizens, who are the only ones who care about those people who are up there. We're talking about rights, and the rights, in the end, are very well on paper, without being on paper, nothing can be done, but they need to be effective. And if anyone lends them, those who help lend them can't do their job well, it's very difficult for them to be effective. In daily work, you have to work at ease, in the fruit-making baskets, you have to enter the tomatoes that enter the world. And there's got to be a system, a decent computer platform, we don't ask for much more. Zero's got to be real, there's got to be enough staff. And that infrastructure plan of what Mr. Moreira told us, man! Mr. Moreira, is that of the year 2010-2015, and within just fifteen days we will be celebrating a new year 2018, and how many new judges can you tell me what there is? We're in the 21st century, we're not asking for a Justice 2.0.4.0, we're asking for a Justice adapted to this time, not too much. With the strike, as I told you before, you weren't there, trials were suspended. Will you allow them to continue to hold trial on the 13th of this month, remaining in their unremovable position, Vice President of the Board? What do you think of union claims? What will the government do about the mobilizations that have been announced, not just for the day 13, but better indefinitely from January? Will you equate the wages of the workers of Justice with the average of other autonomous communities? Will it consolidate the squares corresponding to structural needs? As I said before, fifteen years is not an occasional thing, it's a structural thing. And you will restate all the squares that have been amortized, when? Or do you want to maintain a 19th century justice because it suits someone you know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response by the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I greet the representatives of the employees of the Administration of Justice who are here. And I am very glad that you are here, because I think it is good to listen to everyone and see the positions of each one and what we have to say each; I am responsible for the administration of justice and the powers of the Board in this matter and the different parliamentary groups, in this case, Mrs Vilán, which is the one that makes the inquiry. Although it is true that we have already talked at the previous point about everything that has to do with these issues, and there has been a vote, and I think it became quite clear what the position of the Government of the United States is even in those votes. I was in an act of the Constitution, Mrs. Vilán; that was why I couldn't be. I'm saying this because as you then have gone on other subjects, as always, taking advantage of and showing that you care about this, but that you also care about other things that have little to do with this. I don't care about this anymore, and so I'm going to try to give an answer to everything that was raised here. First of all, indeed, there was a strike last Friday. And I'm not going to discuss it -- you said it in the intervention of the previous point and you said it again now -- the figures; the tracking figures were the ones that were. It was an important follow-up. And so I recognize it, I have to say it, and we have to consider what those figures are and how many people followed that strike. We, of course, have the tracking data for the collection systems of the Board; it was the ones we provided. But I say again that this is an important follow-up and, of course, appreciable and to take into account. You tell me you've been curious for many years that we have jurisdiction over the administration of justice and that the strike calls it when I have the responsibilities. Man, I've been responsible for almost nine years in this matter, and this is the first time a strike is called. And, of course, we're going to try to find a solution. But, after nine years, that actually talks about the responsibility of the workers and that until now we've tried, at least, to do the right things from the Galician Union also in matters of justice. I also have to thank the workers for their responsibility, both those who went to the strike and those who didn't. Minimum services were performed and it was an unaltered strike. So, in that sense, and more speaking of a matter as sensitive as the Administration of Justice, I think it's worthy of recognition and value. From there, you ask me some very specific questions. And I'm going to try, because I think it's what interests us all, also the representatives of the workers and workers, and through them all the officials and officials of Justice, to know what our position is in the face of the situation that is raised. You recognized and also remembered that we assumed the competences. It's a complex distribution of competences, because there are also territories that do not. As everyone knows, we have claimed more than once — and I personally — to different ministers, not only to the ministers of the PP government, who had changed that competitive distribution, assumed more competences, that there is more manoeuvring capacity, but so far we have not been able to do so. So, honestly, Mrs Vilan, you can't accuse us of lack of dialogue. You can value it, and I know it's all opinable, but to say that the Galician Union did not want to dialogue in this situation of strike which is proposed is not true either. It's true that there's time, but I did feel -- and more than once -- with the unions. Of course, you here say cheerfully that I didn't sit with the unions, that I never go to the judges, that no new trials were created. Listen: all the judges who offered to create autonomous communities, there were many who said no, and we always said yes. I'm saying so that you have the right data and let's talk about this seriously, with the intention of reaching some conclusion. He says the media depends on me. I also followed the incidence of the strike by Galician TV, and it was reflected. They don't depend on me the means, I guess you'd know, and I see you don't, and he's also been here for a while. But it's not up to me by the General Secretariat of the Media, but Galician Television also followed the strike, because I think it's a remarkable news. I told him he had an important impact and follow-up. Answer your questions, I insist that you start it in the current legislation, because I think it's important. Because the Galician Union has very specific powers, and it's true that it's broad in the field of administration of justice, but it doesn't all, and it doesn't all have them either in the field of public service. The first question you're asking is what the German Government thinks about the claims of the trade unions representing the staff of the judicial buildings in Galicia and what it's going to do to the Greek Government in the coming months. The interrogation was recorded before the strike, before the first day of strike. So our opinion already tells you that it is in respect of these claims, and also that this first day of strike the follow-up — and I say it again — was important. What are we going to do? So trying to negotiate and try to solve or give satisfaction to the claims that are made, and I think that's what we just voted on is a good sample. Those are the first two questions I wanted to answer, and I think they are answered by what I just said. Just remember that on October 18th and June 18th, Galicia signed with three trade union power stations — Workers' Commissions, CSIF and UXT — an agreement for the development of a plan for employment stability in public services; it also naturally entered into the Administration of Justice. And you didn't recognize it here, but it's all you know about -- I think it was in my budget appearance -- that in 2018 there's already a forecast to consolidate a series of posts or reinforcements of more than three years. You think he said no. I don't know why he says no, because he does, and there are things that either do or don't. Well, tell me no, overpowering, because you say no and I do. Look, for I prepotent not, sincerity and facts. They've consolidated reinforcements of more than three years. Of course, they must be consolidated with money and budget allocation. And you know there was that slogan. Third question, equalization of staff salaries with the average of the autonomous communities. Look, the transitional autonomic complement of what we've been talking about for a long time is affected by state basic legislation, and you know it perfectly well, and I think you know it also by workers' representatives; I think, no, I'm sure. Another thing is the solution or the viability that we gave this whole thing. But it is that 18.2 and 18.8 of the General State Budgets Act set the limits they set. And you know that the Autonomous Community of Madrid has established a rise, and it has already had a challenge requirement. And the Government of Asturias, yesterday I had the opportunity to move there, and the board responsible for the presidency is also Justice, and I was recognized that today they haven't reached agreement to the Council of the Principality's Governing Board, and we'll see what happens when they take it, but we have the background of Madrid. So, what will the Galician Union do? Look, you're summoned, I'm not going to make a reminder anymore, you know the representatives of the workers perfectly well what we put on the table on these last occasions, and already with the committee of the strike called, that there was to negotiate. But there's a meeting again on Thursday next, and there's what we're going to say is that, of course, we are and we recognize that what's measurable is not opinable, that right now they are and we can make statistics with the autonomous communities that are in the Ministry's territory as far as competences, and then we'll say that in Galicia it's still ahead, but it's true that with other autonomous communities, pay is less. So we are going to propose a rise, but with the limitations — that is important, and if we ignore this, it is very difficult to reach agreements — which sets out the rules of the State. And so what we're going to try is that these limitations are lifted so that this rise can be established. We'll do it like in Asturias, where there's been an equalization with a decalage of years. Well, that's what you're going to have to talk about, but you're also aware that, in fact, it's also necessary to put more money on the table, but you're also aware of what I'm saying; if it's not impossible, that limitation is what it is, and we have that caudin horca - so say - of the limitation that states set. Another question that makes it: will the Greek Government consolidate the squares that meet the structural needs? I say again that this is done and recorded in the budgets this year, all the reinforcements that have been consolidated for more than three years in the field of the Administration of Justice. And the last question: Will the Government be restored all the squares that have been amortized? Look, you know that in 2012 -- and this was seen as a union representation, it's true that there was no consensus, but it was well explained in the corresponding years -- a plan to modify the staff frameworks was approved, but there was amortization of 106 squares. I also talk about things that are perfectly known by workers' representatives and motivated in various circumstances, such as the objective assessment of workloads, the modification of procedural laws on staffing in some organs in relation to others in the same category. Amortization replacements were considered, but at the same time they were creating new squares. You just told me here that the squares that have to do with psychosocial teams are not part of the Administration of Justice. Look, we think so, and talking to a lot of legal operators would tell you that it was a necessity for the administration of justice to function. They weren't the only ones who were created, and you know it perfectly. In parallel, reinforcements were strengthened, including those of the prosecutors, within the framework of the proposed implementation of the new tax office, to re-establish the judicial bodies and, for example, to strengthen the common support and decantation services. In the end, the grandson — and I know you're going to argue with me, and more it's set up as non-computable psychosocial services — is favorable, they've created more squares than were amortized in that plan. So, of course, if you see new judicial bodies, and reinforcements that have been over three years, you will continue to do so in succession, as you do this year with 36. And if new judicial bodies — which I sincerely hope the Ministry will once again offer new judicial bodies to Galicia — will, of course, be equipped, as we have done this year, with the officials needed to function from the very first moment, without asking for approvals, as other autonomous communities are doing. So this is the concrete answer to the specific questions you ask me. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u213	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u214	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is that sometimes you're lucky to come to this camera and have the feeling that things that are done are useful for something. That mobilization of the representatives of the workers and the workers of Justice, the concentration and the strike, gives the feeling that they served something, the request they made to the parliamentary groups, too, because you come here today with a radically different attitude to what you normally enter this chamber. Today you are open to dialogue, I don't know if it's because you have a sword from Damocles, which is that possible strike of December 13th, which will cause political problems to you as Counselor of Justice, probably that's why. And it is true that sometimes force is necessary, and in this case it was indispensable, but it was the strength of these gentlemen and of those ladies who are up there, and who are every day attending their jobs. And we just bring that force to this camera. And it's very good that you're welcome to the reality of the country, because Justice isn't like that today, neither yesterday, nor November 16, has it been so for many years, Mr. Vice President. And I'm going to put the same example again: in Tui there's a judge who's number 3 -- it's an example that I'm going to put and not because I'm choosing it, but because it's true -- it's been for almost ten years, and you've only been worried about that judge at the moment the Socialist Parliament brought him to this parliament; until that moment they didn't care. Welcome to reality, it's time! [[Applause]] It is true that in these negotiating bases that you have signed with the seven unions, you collect your requests, but it seems a little bit — now that Christmas is approaching — a letter to Santa Claus or the Magi, Mr. Vice-President. I want to believe what you're saying, especially by those people who are up there. You speak of: negotiations will begin immediately; they will be included in the first transfer contest called for the reinforcements of more than three years 36 places —36, there is no more —; for the modification of the staffing frameworks, we commit ourselves to the start of the negotiation for the creation of new squares; for cases of temporary disability, Justice will push in relation to the staff of the extension service; and for the remuneration of the replacements of higher bodies, the Self-Government commits itself to boosting and demanding the state administration. Of course, but all this sounds like -- as my daughter said -- "Mommy, I'm just going to believe in Santa Claus and the Magi," because it sounds like that, Mr. Vice President. It sounds like a Chinese tale you want to use to get out of the way and avoid that December 13 strike. And from the transitional autonomic complement I'm very surprised that you say something when Mr. Palmou and Mr. Pillado said something else; in fact, they went up that amount from zero to 435 euros. Why can't you do it now? Above all, because you have the possibility, you have a magnificent judicial team within the Government itself, which are the lawyers of the autonomous administration, use them. And they use that judgment of the European Union Court of Justice to solve the problem, not to put a stop to it, Mr Vice-President. And if Asturias does — as you like to compare governments so much, and in Asturias there is a president of the Socialist Party — you do the same, meet Rajoy and tell him: we want the same thing Asturias wants, and we'll see what happens. But tell him, tell him! They go out of the cave at once and tell you, because, if not, we're going to follow that cave of 19th century justice. And Galicia doesn't deserve a justice of the 19th century, and those people who are up there much less, and especially those citizens who, as I said at first, have the misfortune of having to claim their rights to a judge deserve much less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Close this inquiry, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, if you had asked me more about Justice -- you have the opportunity every two weeks that is full, you can ask questions and interpellations -- you might have noticed that the constructive spirit exists. What's going on is that you too, in fact, have to tell him to remember the Administration of Justice when there's a strike called, and he usually doesn't remember almost ever. And this is a truth like a house. So I'd check that's the case. And I should also tell the union representatives not only that they are here today, but through them all the workers and workers, that if possible, because if that ban was lifted at the state level to increase the autonomic complement next year, it would be complicated, at least by their will, because in the amendments to the budgets of the Vice President there was not a single request for increased money that would make it possible. So you also remember this claim when workers' representatives are agreed; you don't wake up first for nothing. I'm telling you to talk about the concerns of Justice that we have each other. That's why what you said about what happens when the strike comes up to you and not to other advisors after nine years of age means, of course, that we do a lot of bad things, but something we do well too. Tell me about Tui. If you really believe that the construction of Tui's building is activated because you asked for it, then you don't understand anything about the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, you don't understand anything we're trying to do in Galicia, you don't understand anything, and that's very hard to agree with. Look, it's like I'm told we didn't make Vigo until now because there was no will on the side of the Galician Union, after five years waiting for the Vigo Town Hall to give us a sound. [[Murmurs.]] In the end, we arrive at the settlement of the City of Justice, which we all agree, including the Vigo Town Hall, in which it is the best. But for five years we discussed and there was no way, and as long as we rule in all political colors — including the Socialist Party, also the BNG — they were giving up buildings or land to make decent judicial facilities. So each one has the merits that he has, but if he thinks we're activated because you're activated from the other side, so we're not going anywhere. He's trying to do things with some planning. I would like to say again: in Madrid they have just demanded — I suppose after the challenge — the rise of the autonomic complement. Asturias insists that you didn't take him to the Governing Council, we'll see him when he takes him. And when you take it -- I hope there's no problem because it would be the solution to many situations, we'll see what happens. But, of course, if you say here it's the same thing as the laws say because there's always a way of making fun of it. Magnificent legal teams that tell you how you have to skip what a law says! Look, the Galician Judiciary Teams aren't for that, they're quite the opposite. So it's the same in vertical replacement measures. It's just that there's a ruling from the High Court of Justice — Mr. Villares, it seems a lie that you're telling this — that tells us no. And when we tried to execute her another way, we got a warning saying... that we were trying... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u217	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u218	...to mock what that sentence said and that we couldn't do it. But it was already the assignment, it was the desire and the will, because we think it has to be this way, and we hope it can be that way. But we tried it on two lines: first, in no sentence and then trying to do it differently, and in execution of a sentence we were told that we couldn't do it like that. If you say it's the same thing as the High Court of Justice says, you forgot it very quickly. Honestly, I have to tell you that he was there and that there are things that can't be done. [[Murmurs.]] So by summarizing and going what we care about, I think that in this debate what matters is the transcendence that is in relation to the solution of the issues that are raised. In the vote we did before, I believe that the intention of the Government of Galicia is perfectly reflected. With regard to the autonomic supplement, there will be a first meeting with the strike committee, being summoned to strike next Thursday, and there we will suggest that if there is any possibility — and I think that there is now no possibility, with the legal impediment of the Budget Law — of making that increase in the remuneration of the autonomic supplement will be proposed and will try to reach an agreement as if it had been reached in other autonomous communities. With regard to the rest of the questions — in the vote in favour of the former were the representatives of the workers and workers and therefore listened to the debates, and they listened and saw the result of the vote — I think it is obvious that more consideration is needed. We're willing to do it in everything that allows us the law. I mean, in vertical replacements there's this problem with the High Court of Justice, not that problem, that sentence that prevents it. Mr. Villares, that's right, and if you tell the workers anything else, they're not telling them what's going on. And as for the consolidation of the squares, of the reinforcements that have been over three years, there are 36. They're there, I'm glad you didn't object to that, as you didn't expect money to increase the autonomic complement. So, you've been activated by this problem, you could be activated before, you weren't; and, therefore, now if we can really do it, don't worry that the Galician Union will find or try to find the necessary budgetary resources. And regarding the depreciation of squares of that plan of the year 2012, I insist that the grandson is positive. And we will continue to create squares, which I hope the Ministry of Justice this year — and we have made it known to you — we want that as soon as you do, or say that new judges will be able to be created, as soon as possible to try to get those judges to work. Galicia will do it again, contrary to what many autonomous communities have done -- many of them too, I have to say, governed by the Socialist Party, which do not have, there, we, the emergencies -- because there is a good administration of justice, in which there are many things to improve. The Galician Union has a lot of things to do better. Actually, in these years we've been trying to make it right, and I think something's getting better. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u219	Thank you, Vice President. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] I think it was the product of the previous debate, Mr Villares. But no, it was an opinion... No, it wasn't an allusion... No, I'm sorry, you're in addition to being a law, you'll know that allusions value the presidency. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry, allusions value the presidency if there's something that can be offensive. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't find anything offensive, it was something... No, nothing. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry... No, sorry, no, it wasn't that way. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] We'll continue the debate at 6 p.m. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, Mr. Villares. Please! Well, that's it! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] At 6 p.m. we returned to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u220	Let's resume the session by continuing the interpellations. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García from G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the right to a decent housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u221	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u222	Good afternoon. Counsellor, nine years have failed to guarantee the right recognized in the Constitution to a housing worthy of thousands of Greeks and Greeks, if their intention was to work to guarantee it. Their policies systematically exclude thousands of people from that right who cannot access a home or are expelled from it, suffering one of the worst blows that a person, a mother, a father, a child or a child can suffer. This drama is given to the most disadvantaged groups, of course: young people, women and small children; many women with little ones in charge. We've mentioned many times that even the evictions also have a woman's name, because work insecurity has a woman's name, because low wages are also more women's wages etc. It is not something conjunctural — we have seen it denounce — it is structural, and the result of the axial factors of its policies. And since these factors are central to their policies, they haven't thought about changing them, but without changing them, the problem won't go away and, at most, they'll make up. You, with your policies, encourage two things. First, the economic and labor model of precariousness, instability at work, the miserable wages they don't give to live. For example, in this country, 44% of households enter less than EUR 1,500 per month; 27% per month, average young people's wages are about EUR 1,000, 1,097 per month, 20% less than average wages. And with that situation, access to housing prices for those who don't have measures to regulate them is sometimes impossible, and so what happens, which is still a daily problem. They lower the mortgage executions, of course, as is normal, but they go up the pitches because they can't afford the rent. There are cases in which the same persons, people who suffer from various disqualifications over time, are concatenated in the same people. Not only is rejections the drama of housing, but it's also the impossibility of accessing a housing and starting vital projects. Many young people, in this new scenario, can't opt for a housing estate, can't get a mortgage because they wouldn't be granted because of their economic conditions, or they don't even want to. There's a data in Plan RehaVita's memory that proves it. In 2008, young people accessing a housing did it at 41% under the rental formula. In 2015 that percentage is 71%. It's obvious that these people either prefer it or they look like it, because of their economic conditions, not only of wages, but of job instability, to opt for rent. This wouldn't have to be bad if it had been used for those people to achieve vital stability and that if they change their homes, either because they want it. But what happens is that, by increasing the demand for rental and there are no price regulation mechanisms, the renters are rising, and they are rising mostly in urban areas, where there are many differences. In the last year, more than 4% of the renters raise. In big cities there are more than 6%, and they will continue to rise because there is no measure that can limit it, either directly or indirectly. And if they get up, and if wages and working conditions don't improve, we'll continue to see and attend daily evictions. One of the regulatory mechanisms that should be promoted, even as recognised in its RehaVita Plan, is a public rental park with social prices at a level close to what may exist in other European countries, because that would be one of the major regulatory elements. In this country, banks have been rescued and purchased so-called toxic assets from these banks, but it has not been used to provide a public rental park, a real shame that still outrages many people today. I mean, we paid the banks to get rid of the assets they wanted to defrost, but then we didn't use them to make them available to the people who were going to the street because those banks don't want the price of the house to be lowered. So while they were bought and not placed in the market, people kept going and going to the street. That's a feature of their politics, because there's a contradiction of interests. You'd like there were no evictions, of course, yes, but if in exchange for that you have to harm the banks, you don't take that kind of action. One of the objectives of the RehaVita Plan was to increase the public rental park, which today, by the hand of the IGVS, has less than 3,000 homes. I don't know today, but at the time of the RehaVita Plan was less than 3,000 homes. Of course, this isn't a public park that can meet the goals that you yourself say you defend, such as market regulation and stabilization. Today you have the opportunity to tell us the figures in which the public park has improved since Plan RehaVita's approval. You've been ruling for nine years, I could ask for the figures from the rental public park, from when you arrived and from now on, but I only ask you since the RehaVita Plan was introduced. How many public housing rentals there were when the RehaVita Plan was approved and how many were able to incorporate. And you have the chance when we're past the equator of the program. We're too far from reaching a minimum threshold of that rental public park, and yet it also seems that the management of the little that there is is is improved. For example, we managed to have data from the province of Lugo through a meeting with staff working in the social services of several municipalities, and on 1 January 2016 alone in the province of Lugo there were a total of 117 empty housing of public ownership, public promotion, in the province of Lugo, corresponding to the Councilloría de Vivenda e Solo. It contrasts this information with the plaintiff register, which exceeds 665, and although we know that some plaintiff may be registered on two options, yet seeing this data, it seems impossible for us that in the province of Lugo there is public housing owned by the empty IGVS. We also have the data that between January 1st 2016 and September 1st 2016 25 waivers have occurred, compared to the 18 acceptances that have occurred. Of the resignations, 18 were on the reserve list for a next draw and 9 refused to participate in a new draw. We reflect on the possible reason why there is such a large number of waivers, and we believe that the adjudication procedure should be reviewed, the procedure for adjudication regulated in Decree 253/2007 and No 1/2010. In the question — it is incomplete — we refer only to 253/2007, but also to Decree 1/2010, which already, when approved, said they did so to try to simplify and speed up the processes. The case is that this is still working badly, and there are people who are even able to benefit from a nine-year housing after asking for it, or seven years after asking for it. Of course, the conditions of these people have changed, and when they get paid, after the fortune they give up, or even change the family's finances and the housing they give them is not the best for that family, so they give up. The case is, there's a lot of resignations. We have Lugo data, and we'd like to know if it's an exceptional question of Lugo or if it's generalized. What it can't be is that, having a public rental park so small, there are still so many empty dwellings. Then there's also the program of empty dwellings that they've tried to get you out of advertising. We want to know today the data of how many housing homes have been accommodated in this program and how many people are staying in the empty housing program. We would also like to know if they've planned to amend Royal Decree 253/2007 and 1/2010 to try to improve the adjudication process of these dwellings. We believe that the same policies cannot continue to be repeated because they will bring the same results. We believe that their policies are limited to makeup a problem that does not attack the structural. We believe that if you in all the memories of all the budgets say that one of the objectives of this council is to regulate the housing market and guarantee people the right to housing, they can't give up having a truly ambitious public rental park. It's the only way to regulate prices, if not, we'll have what we have; that is, as soon as the economy is reactivated a little, the price of housing, especially in cities, will rise, the prices of renters are already rising; the wages of young people are miserable on many occasions and they are very unstable contracts, and as soon as that fails, the evictions are taking place, as we are seeing every day in this country. So we'd like it both in concrete and in the general line of counseling to be answered to this interpellation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u223	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u224	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, I would like to thank you for bringing back to this House an initiative on housing policy because I will be able to have a new opportunity to explain all the measures and initiatives we have put in place to protect the most vulnerable groups, to facilitate access to housing for families with more difficulties, because you know it was a priority in past legislation, of course yes, and now we continue to focus our efforts to provide solutions to people who have the most difficulties. Our commitment is to people, to the Greeks, and, above all, to those who need it most in terms of housing. And of course we work everywhere to respond to all those affected, because the defeat, whether by rent default or by mortgage execution, as you know, because we debate, we talk about it, we often address it in this House and I've explained it to you, are 12 measures in particular that we put in place to fight the evictions. I can say and affirm that these are effective measures and effective measures that have helped many families. It's 12 measures that have been very positively evaluated by the People's Valuer, who has recognized that it's the most ambitious program... it seems to bother you, but of course, it's 12 measures that the People's Valuer himself has publicly acknowledged in his annual report. We're talking about the social lease bonus, which goes from year to year more than 200 social lease bonds. Agreements with financial institutions. We signed agreements with the financial institutions, which committed themselves to the Council of Galicia not to throw anyone away and to give away these empty homes of their property to families and destined them for social rent. There are already 115 dwellings of financial institutions that we have made available to families in difficulty. And also the Empty Housing Program that you're commenting on, whose goal is to move a set of unoccupied housing into a social housing bag. As of today, 53 are the municipalities that have joined this program; there are already incorporated housing, of course, and also assisted housing. A program that we urge the municipalities, especially the big cities, that have not adhered to. Vigo, Ferrol, Coruña and others like Santiago, who signed just in election campaign and put him back in a drawer. Of course, it's right in the big cities where there's more demand for housing and where more cases of evictions are recorded; that's where we have to act, give a solution to families and sign these empty housing agreements. He knows that the Empty Housing Program is born of cooperation between Junta and Fegamp, and is also born with the participation of the Galician Network against Poverty. It was agreed in 2016 in the new Galician Social Agenda, as an instrument based on the principles of institutional cooperation and collaboration, and, of course, the participation of the councils will share with me that is fundamental. The Empty Housing Program has also recently been complemented by the Realuga Program, so that the owner who incorporates his homes can access help to rehabilitate that housing which makes the program available. So we're talking about a total of 12 measures, a comprehensive and effective anti-disappearance plan to fight the challenge. Mr. Sánchez, I have to get back to nuanced, because he always talks about the denial statistics, and he knows that when he talks about them, his data is inaccurate because they don't talk about housing in private property, and much less about habitual housing. You know that data is related to another type of immovable property. They refer to rustic farms, therefore, for example, livestock farms; urban farms, for example, industrial ships. And within their own homes, there are even legal houses, that is, of builders and real estate; and there is even summer housing. We are concerned about the usual housing, the permanent housing, the affected, and that's where we have to focus our efforts to provide solutions. In fact, yesterday, the data at the National Institute of Statistics are there, were public, and the data on mortgage executions dropped by 45.6 % during the third quarter of 2017, so it's the lowest data in the entire historical series on these statistics. I remind you that since June we have been conducting management of the competent bodies. Of course, there I share with you that it is important to have disaggregated statistics, where the usual housing is different, because so we could be more effective in housing policy. Mr. Sánchez, you've also spoken of the procedure for the adjudication of dwellings. Let me explain to you what the housing adjudication procedure is and make some slaughter or correction. The housing adjudication process is through the 2007 Decree; a decree that establishes that to opt for these housing is essential requirement to be registered in the register of applicants. This process is started until we draw the adjudication, and we always want it to be as short as possible. But you will understand that in order to guarantee the rights of the applicants, you must examine the documentation, believe that the requirements of the claimants are met and prevent them from harming themselves to whom they really do not belong. Thanks to the current Government of Unity today, things are much simpler and much more fair, because, for example, a two-member family does not seem reasonable to be assigned a four-bedroom dwelling, nor is it logical for a four-member family to benefit from a one-bedroom housing. And to make it more flexible and effective, we reformed the register of applicants created by the Bipartite, so that, before registering, we simply see that those requirements of the plaintiff register are met. You know it wasn't like that before, when I was running the Bipartite, it was just enough to introduce the DNI. So, you, with your salary as a deputy, could grow the register of plaintiffs. Now that's not so, and it's thanks to this government, because that system, of course, was neither fair nor effective, nor was it for anything agile or reasonable. We have a record of cases of promotion of new dwellings where there have been up to a dozen drawbacks so that they can affect the housing, as a result of which I have just explained to you. So now that's not happening, and I can give you an example like Cangas's, where October 30 began an adjudication project and November 20 -- not a month -- has already been the draw and adapted to adjudication. In any case, we continue to work to review the decree, simplify further the adjudication procedures, increase transparency, increase guarantees and agility, and, of course, the possibility of direct adjudication. As you know, direct adjudication is much more agile, but it requires, in any case, the intervention of the Provincial Housing Commission and the social services of the municipalities. As for the adjudication regime, it must be remembered that in the case of new construction housing it can be both in rental and in sale. You know that rental income must be less than 1.5 times the IPREM. When the family unit's income is greater than 1.5 IPREM can access the sale. And what I can tell you is that since 2009 68% of the homes we've been assisted in renting. In any case, this data that I have just given is a clear sample of our bet on promoting rental because it is in line with real needs. You were also talking about empty houses. We've never kept an empty house if any families have demanded those houses. Temporaryly, for a very short time, if there were to be improvements in the new adjudication process, but we never had empty homes if there were families that were demanding that housing. In any case, it's good to increase the public housing park, of course yes, but with planning and rigour, without wasting public resources. I'll kill you for the fact that I gave you 3,000 homes. It's 3,700 public-promoting housing owned by the Galician Union; about 3,500 in lease regime. We have rented a lot since 2014, when RehaVita Plan was drafted, Mr. Sánchez. And in the adjudication process, there's a lot of them, 226 are in direct access regimens. We're not satisfied. We will continue in a double direction, not only with new public housing, but with rehabilitation, as shown by the 2018 budgets, 7 million euros. The Regurde program, to rehabilitate and make housing available for social needs, 6.5 million euros. We will act in the Office of Coruña by making housing available; in Vigo, in San Paio de Navia, also making housing available; in Ourense and Betanzos we are performing works, and in Lugo too; and in Santiago by drafting the project to start works in 2018. We prioritize the big cities because that's where there's more demand. In the Olympic Park we hope to be able to make the 1,000 protected housing we want to make; and in San Paio de Navia, 1,600 homes. In any case, of course, there's a complete public housing plan in the German Government. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u225	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u226	Well, by taking out the big words, grandoloquence and advertising and propaganda, what we have of data is this: that one of the central bets of the RehaVita Plan, which was to increase the rental public park, from 2014 we went from 2,800 to 3,500. Great success! You can come up here and say that's going to solve the problem of access to the homes of the Greeks and the Greeks. We say it's an absolute failure, and it shows the lack of willingness to provide this country with a public rental park. From 2,800 to 3,500; you can blame yourself for this time. Or, for example, property of financial institutions, which made provision 115. How many are there in the country? How many dwellings of financial institutions are there in the country, Counsellor? It's an insult 115, especially when you in Madrid are refusing to comply with the local housing law of 2004 to define empty housing, so you can charge the IBI to the financial institutions that keep these housing empty, and they're blocking it in Madrid. Only 115, and you come here and try... I don't know if he thinks we're going to tell him that 115 houses are very good. The Social Rental Bonus, 200 cases. You said you've reformed the process of adjudicating the plaintiff's record, and it's very well as you intend, but it's also fine to be able to make a balance of how things are going. I told him that only in the province of Lugo, on 1 January 2016, there were 117 empty homes of the Galego Institute of Living and Solo, 117! What's the matter, there's no demand for housing in Lugo, Counselor? There's no demand for housing in Lugo? This is also an insult. Or, for example, you said to simplify the process. We agree on the objective, but what is going on in 2016 is that there have been more waivers than acceptances. In 2016 there were more waivers than acceptances. And then you continue to refuse to assume reality. What do you mean when I give the data from the General Council of the Judiciary, when I accuse myself of trying to falsify the data? I'm giving the data from the General Council of the Judiciary, what do you mean? I mean, did you come to tell me that I'm trying to cheat when I give the General Council of the Judiciary? You don't come here to admit that in 2018, after hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people expelled from their homes, no Government is able to provide reliable data on the usual housing evictions in this country. Wouldn't that be a reason for you to blame me here, Counselor? How can you not have or really give data about people who are defeated? I don't give any data. You answered something I didn't say, brought it ready. I don't tell them. What I know is that I'm still often attending the death row of people in this country, and I know that the General Council of the Judiciary also says that in the first half of 2017 in Galicia, 6.6% of the death row was increased, and in the state, 8.4%. That's too much! Figures are unacceptable, anyway. Nine years have been the unacceptable figures. In a country like this, which has 300,000 empty homes, many of them owned by rescued banks, toxic assets purchased, it is unacceptable that in 2018 we continue to have this drama, and that drama, Counsellor, is structural. With the economic model that you are setting up, with wages of misery, with job instability and not wanting to put your teeth at housing prices, you are chronicizing the problem. It's structural, either raising wages, or raising labour stability, or lowering housing prices, or setting up a public rental park. There's no other one! If the wages and working conditions of housing prices are so far away, we're never going to solve this problem, Counselor. So, I do think you're facing nothing more than what is supposed to be an election wear, but, instead, you haven't thought of disturbing the big housing owners, so you don't want to be able to apply a charge to them in the IBI, Counsellor, and you keep it blocked in Madrid. It's obvious that when with public money you buy the houses that banks didn't want, you could free this housing park and make a truly powerful public park, which gives people a solution. Why don't they? Because if these houses are released at affordable prices, the price of housing and the prices of renters in big cities will be lowered, and that doesn't matter. It doesn't matter who owns the property. And that's the question you have to choose from: either people have housing to live, or if they want to do housing business. Finally, Program is empty. Data, please. How many homes are housed in the program and how many people have stayed in the houses? That's what I suppose was the objective, Counselor. We want to know that data and we want to know how you think. Since he said there's still room to work on simplification in the adjudication regime, he still seems to us to be ashamed that there are so many resignations, and as he will do. This is 2018. In the RehaVita plan, it was already said that the decrees governing this had to be reformed. Then tell us how, I suppose you've studied it. What can't be, there's people without houses, there's joint houses without people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u227	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u228	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, will you think little of what we're doing? You compared it to the Town Hall: zero empty houses mobilized to help some family, even though in the electoral program itself they flagged there were 19,000 empty houses. So compare this whole battery of measurements with solutions, and zero, for example, where you rule, in the Town Hall of Coruña. Specifically, the data you're saying about Lugo isn't real, so check the data, because the truth is it's not real. In any case, Mr. Sánchez, I humbly tell you, I really do tell you humbly, but give me lessons and lessons someone who only knows how to make the electoral flag with the defiances, and then where they rule they can't move a role to give no solution, and they don't move a single living to give solutions in social matters...! I'm surprised that you want to teach me lessons and that you want to teach us lessons when where they rule they can't move a single piece of paper. [[Applause]] They're campaigning. They only know how to criticize and make institutional statements. With intentional statements you know well, or you should know, that people's problems are not solved. The Ferrol Town Hall approved in plenary the empty housing program but we haven't had enough. Therefore, the papers don't move! The Town Hall of Santiago last year formalized the empty housing convention, of course, before the election campaign! but it was put in a drawer. There's also standing paper, unmovable paper. The Town Hall of Coruña, despite the people's Valator's requirements, does not want to sign the Empty Housing Program either. They didn't do anything, Mr. Sánchez. They didn't do anything where they rule. They don't move a paper, either to the right or to the left. So, Mr. Sánchez, where they rule, did not mobilize a single empty house at the disposal of people with social needs. So what must be asked of a government, of course, is that he is responsible for seeking public interest. You must demand a government will of work everywhere, of course you do. I ask you to reflect and share this position with me, and that the governments of the councils of the big cities that have not been incorporated, to reflect and to incorporate themselves, because — I insist — where they rule, they have not mobilized a single empty home for people in difficulty, not a single home! So what I ask of you, the only one, is collaboration. No money. No more collaboration. And what we found is the continued rejection of the Town Hall of Coruña and the Town Hall of Ferrol. Santiago does not move the Empty Housing Program. In any case, we're still working and we're still fighting against challenging alternatives, with solutions. There are 12 active measures that are reflected in next year's budget with EUR 2.6 million. And it compares, just compares this battery of measurements, these numbers that I just gave you in the first intervention, and what they did, for example, in the Town Hall of Coruña. Protesting with banners does not solve problems. You have to manage, you have to make decisions, you have to move the papers to get solutions. And with real facts, like the Social Rental Bonus; 462 since its first publication, 204 this year. Conventions with financial entities, which they don't like, but they're 115 agreements with financial entities; the worst thing would be to have zero, like some council that didn't get any agreement with financial entities. These are the housing programs of the Union, and we were able to help in the field of evictions to some 1,500 families. And in terms of renting there are 6,500 families per year who are benefiting from the rental aid of the Galician Union, of course they are. And we also bet on new protected social housing where there is demand. In the office we expect the Town Hall of Coruña to continue ahead so that 1,000 protected dwellings can be executed, and in San Paio de Navia, 1,600 protected dwellings. And rehabilitation is also a priority for this. I'm glad the preliminary draft of the Rehabilitation Act had found it on the website. I'm glad. But what I don't understand is their incongruent postures. I would need clarification on your part because, on the one hand, it criticizes the Rehabilitation Act and says it's necessary to make a new housing. We need to keep building instead of rehab. As soon as we rehabilitate not... of course, we have it clear, we bet on rehabilitation to respond to the families in need. It's 3,500 families who have access to the rehabilitation aid of the German Government in 2017. Of course, our bet is clear and we don't comply, we'll keep working. As long as a single family is at risk of losing their home, we'll keep working and moving the papers, of course. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, solutions are handled with management, with work, with decisions and by publishing in the DOG and official bulletins. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u229	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other G.P. Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the functioning of the AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u230	Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u231	Good afternoon, Counselor. Yesterday the BNG called for the December 1 statement in this House as the day of Greek dignity, the day that the spirit of Never Again went out into the streets. A date we should mark in the calendar. As we must also mark on the calendar on December 13th, which could be the day of shame. I don't know if you know what happened on December 13, but it was a real infamy and shame for this country, when on December 13, 2016, the Congress Bureau's political veto, chaired by Mrs Ana Pastor, of the People's Party, came to be handled by Congress of the law unanimously passed by this Parliament with the vote of all the forces of this Parliament. A real shame, a true infamy and a true political veto; and how much they try to disguise him from technical reasons, really made the minister clear when he came to Galicia last July, which was a strictly political veto. He even spoke of it as a threat to Spain's unity, nothing more and nothing less!, the transfer of AP-9. What could produce — well, that too Mr Feijó said in a debate here in Parliament — territorial tensions, and what is happening, was not the time. Furthermore, this shameful veto, this political veto, is a repeat veto because it was ratified — after that shameful December 13, 2016 — last June again. After this Parliament comes back for the second time to adopt a law unanimously — which has already been cut off, eliminating the ransom — it has been vetoed — not the approval, but the processing — by the Bureau of the Parliament, chaired by Mrs Ana Pastor, and by a report drawn up by the Spanish Government Ministry of Development, Mr Rajoy. It seems to us that these vetoes are the most powerful demonstration of the inability of the Welsh PP to defend the interests of our country. They are the most evident and most powerful manifestation of their obedience, of their submission to Madrid. It's not really incapacity because it's something you consciously decide, that essential support role for these decisions to be made contrary to Galicia's interests. This veto, this decision of the People's Party, is the clearest example of the economic policy, along with funding — both autonomic and local — the energy policy and the German economy; these are the clearest examples. But I believe that AP-9 is the most visible example for the people of this legalized policy on the part of the state — it has to be said — by all the governments of the Spanish State since 1977, over 40 years. A policeman who is producing great profits for a friendly company, chaired by a very friendly gentleman of Mr. Rajoy, who earns a juicy annual salary of 172,000 euros, Mr. Muntaner Pedrosa, which means astronomical benefits for a friendly company that is currently – do what this means – has as a majority shareholder an investment fund, an American building fund, which has the clarifying name of Capital corsary. Corporal capital: the name already says it all. This concessionary company was granted by decisions of successive governments of the State which provided for the extension of the concession to 75 years, the legal maximum. There are only three highways in the state that have this legal maximum, and two are in Galicia. It is the last extension of the concession adopted for 25 years — you know — by the Government of Mr Aznar, the People's Party, in 2000. Furthermore, that same Government was what privatized in 2003, being Mr. Aznar President of the Government and being Councillor of the COTOP of the Galician Union — I don't know who it was, but welcomed that privatisation — Mr. Núñez Feijóo. It was the one who evaluated this privatization since Galician Union in 2003. Well, this privatisation has meant for the state — which is another of the great beneficiaries, along with the concessionaire, of the legalized economic policy of AP-9 — a revenue of EUR 1,586 million, of which we have seen nothing here. We didn't see a potato, as Mr. Feijóo used to say. In addition, the State has benefited over all these years from the payment of taxes — via corporate taxes or via VAT — which satisfies this concessionary company and which also benefits Madrid, but from those we see nothing here. And what is the role of the People's Party? For the role of the People's Party is to justify that outrage of the disgraceful political veto of the P.P. of Madrid, of Mr. Rajoy and of Mrs. Pastor. And then, of course, they come to us with this kind of smoke curtain, this consolidation prize, of the bilateral follow-up commission at the highest level, which supposedly created in the face of the outrage that caused that decision to veto the processing of a law passed by the German Parliament. You were talking about day-to-day management of all decisions. I don't know if you have any more data, but I think this commission has met once so far and we haven't seen any results. By the way, as other commissions created, such as the follow-up of the works of the AVE or the follow-up of State investments. You're here justifying this policy, defending the interests of the state and the interests of the concessionaire in a submissive and helpful manner. And now they're also supporting a further increase in the rates planned for next year. They're having an absolutely permissive attitude to the jams, the restraints, the mismanagement of AP-9 or the defeat caused by the works in the area of Roundola, specifically in the parishes of Chapela or Trasmanó. And in case this was a little bit, we still had the final mark, which was that, while they were vetoing the transfer and bailout of the concession, they approved the rescue of those ruined Madrid highways with nothing more and nothing less than 3,500 million euros from the state's archives to rescue some ruinous highways. Therefore, you, Counselor, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, political minds, a zero on the left, don't paint anything. [[Applause]] On this subject are the useless fools, I am the foolish arm of the People's Party of Madrid. I think the police figures are more than obvious, I'm not going to extend myself any more. But, let's make it even clearer, in addition to these multi-millionaire benefits, we're talking about revenues of more than 4,000 million from now on until the concession is completed, and more than 1,400 million benefits from this period, the concessionary still enjoys franchisee privileges as a 95% bonus of the IBI tax, which no longer enter the municipalities through this infrastructure. A real scandal! And this adds to the deterioration, the worsening of the service, the reduction of the staff table, the claims — which are the most abundant on this highway — the jams. The absence of bonuses — as in many other motorways — that do not exist here, taking the journey back between Pontevedra and Vigo. And in case this was little -- as I told you -- now they're still going to approve an increase of 3.1% in the fees for 2018. So, I want to ask you nine questions, clear and concrete, which I hope you answer here. First, does the PP and the Board support the appeal brought by the BNG to the Constitutional Court in defence of the processing of the law passed by this Parliament? Second question: Do you support the abusive rise in the fees that will enter into force in 2018? Supports the People's Party, the Galician Union, this way up? Third question: Do you support the establishment of measures for the reduction of tariffs, such as full-time travel bonuses for residents, for trips per month, for miles travelled... as in other highways in the state? Fourth question: Will the Ministry of Development be required to establish measures to improve the management of the motorway? For example, the increase in staff, especially in the case of passenger cabs; the improvement in the conservation or lighting of the motorway; measures to avoid jams, with a performance protocol in case of retentions, for example, that I have already proposed to BNG. Fifth question to you: Do you support measures to compensate for the negative impact of works on the extension of the Rande bridge, both in the Trasmañó area and in the case of the Church school? I ask you expressly whether you will be allowed to open the incorporation lane that passes two metres away from this school. Sixth question: Do you support the immediate realization of the works to correct the visual and acoustic impact of the highway in Chapela and Teis? Do you support these works, which must be carried out — to our understanding — by the year 2018? Are you going to do something in the case of the floors or the acoustic screens in these two parishes? I ask you the seventh question: Will you support and effect the abolition of the peax between Roundola and Vigo in 2018? Are you prepared to carry out this decision either the Government of the United States or the State Government? A decision, by the way, a measure which has been adopted by this Parliament. Eighth question: Will you support and make effective, with a project in 2018, the urban transformation of the third AP-9 of access to Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u233	...that was also the object of an agreement? And finally: Do you support the completion of a study also in 2018 on the benefits generated by the motorway to the state dealership on the prejudices that Galicia has caused and on the rescue of the concession?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u235	I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u236	Thank you, Mr Bará. Infrastructure Adviser's Response Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u237	Thank you, Mr Bará. For your information, I think you should know that the greatest benefits of Audasa were really between 2005 and 2011, when you ruled. You can see it because it's public, it's data from the Ministry of Development itself. In any case, by talking about several specific aspects of the Atlantic motorway, which, as I always say, is a fundamental road because it vertebrates 60% of where the Greeks live, unites the most populated metropolitan areas and five of the seven big cities, let me clarify some questions that I see in the explanatory statement of your initiative, because you allude to the answer I myself gave you the day I came here to answer by Rande's retentions. Reading the exposition of motives, it seems to have upset him my reply of that day, and I don't understand very well why. He seems to have bothered me to address the Ministry of Development on the same day the incidents occurred on the Rande Bridge. I don't know if it bothers you that you're late, because the truth is they waited Monday. I didn't wait until the weekend, not even Monday afternoon, to worry about this subject. The same Friday, when the incident occurred, I was directed and contacted the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Development. In any case, as I say, we're worried about AP-9. Of course we're concerned about the quality of the AP-9 service. Of course we don't like peas, Mr. Bará. I always tell you, I think to reaffirm it, concrete data. In full economic crisis, in full economic recession, at times of greatest difficulty, we put into service more than 200 kilometres of high-capacity roads without a single fee. So, these data I think are clear. With regard to AP-9, we have carefully followed everything that is happening, vigilant and attentive to any impact, and putting the incidences that we have detected immediately before the Ministry of Development and also before the concessionary company. That same day of Rande's incidents led me directly to the concessionary company demanding measures, and that's exactly what we did on October 27th. That same afternoon — I did not expect, of course, Monday — to address the Ministry of Development in a writing that was aware of the situation that took place that very morning as a result of the works; a writing that warned of the negative consequences for people, both at economic and personal level, that called for all the information to be gathered to clarify the incident; and also a letter requiring the necessary measures to be taken, because we always say that, in exceptional situations, of course, exceptional measures. That's what we did, as a result of our concern. We understood, and so I was transferred by infrastructure technicians, which was the result of a lack of programming of the works, and we called for the proper management of the Ministry of Development. We're worried about citizens. They are concerned, of course, about the service they provide and the repercussions of Rande's incident. The Ministry of Development contested us and stated that it was an incorrect planning, as we thought, and took measures: it opened up informational inquiries before Audasa and adopted a series of decisions to extreme the compliance of the hours of the works to avoid retentions; measures we expect to produce results. And, Mr Bará, of course, before, now and in the future, of course we will remain vigilant and with active policy in relation to the quality service of the AP-9 motorway. We always ask for solutions to correct the deficiencies and we act permanently to demand a quality service, believing that the best thing for our community is the transfer of AP-9, a transfer that you — you know, in the Journal of Sessions — when they ruled, they didn't want to. Therefore, it is an absolute incoherence on the part of his party. We are consistent and we will always continue to demand with our work the transfer of title, because a more focused management to the territory can certainly give more results. Being here on the territory allows us to be more directly monitored by the service, to give more flexibility to the impact responses and, of course, also to implement a new policy on fees. For the state there are 26 AP-9. We only have an AP-9, and that's why we're worried about this AP-9, which is ours, and we want it to be the title of the Galician Union. And, Mr Bará — I insist — we have not changed our criteria regarding the transfer of AP-9. You guys when they're in the government shut up, and in the opposition they make noise, that's right. We won't be satisfied when we don't get the most, which is the transfer of AP-9, but you can't deny that you have given your fruit the work of the Galician Union that you now criticize so much. For the first time we have a voice in that commission that for you is a consolation prize. Of course, this commission has yielded a lot of fruit. It has advanced more than ever, of course!, by reinforcing measures to prevent the seizures. And for the first time since 2006 the June budget for 2018 will not have reflected the 7 million euros you signed to pay an annual road... the two-party government in 2006. Who ruled? The two-party government. You were, a convention signed in 2016, a ruinous convention for Galicia and, of course, round for Audasa. It's very easy to criticize, but something more difficult you know is how to rule. They signed an agreement that I already supposed to pay Audasa about 60 million euros. So you learn the right things. We'll keep working to achieve results. And as a result of this commission we have avoided paying all the Greeks 400 million euros from here to 2048. It seems a lie that they don't recognize that this convention signed in 2016 is a barbarity. At this point, we should have made it clear — with facts, as I said — that we do not like the fees: more than 200 kilometers in high-performance routes, in full economic crisis, without a single fee. That clearly reflects that we don't like to pay. You forget, speaking of peas, the agreement concluded by the Minister of Development José Blanco in the last moments of the Government of Zapatero. An agreement that, as you well know, is that the works of expansion of the AP-9 motorway are financed by the fee. It is shaped in a royal decree published in the Official State Bulletin by a socialist government, of which you were partners here in Galicia, who decided that the works of AP-9 expansion would pay all the Greeks from the upstream of the beach. Therefore, an agreement armored by the Government of Zapatero, by Minister José Blanco, signed on November 18, 2011, so a few days before the election itself, which was November 20th. In its clause VI this royal decree authorizes an extraordinary 1% cumulative increase in 2011. So, again, another ruinous agreement for Galicia and another round agreement for Audasa promoted by you along with the Socialist Party. So I'm not a decision yesterday or by any means these royal decrees and these conventions; and of course, who tied up the interests of the dealership and tied up that increase in the fee was that actual decree in 2011. So he left us this inheritance. And we will always defend in the Government of the Council of Galicia that does not apply, of course, until the works are finished. This is not the only decision that socialist governments have taken that violates the Greek interests. And, in any case, that commission that for you -- I don't know exactly what word he said -- is a consolation prize, he's achieved more than ever. For the first time we have a direct participation in AP-9 and have succeeded in freeing ourselves of this obligation of EUR 7 million annually in Chapter IV of the Directorate-General for Infrastructures which we had to pay in full economic crisis as a result of which it was signed in 2006, when the Bipartite ruled. We've achieved this annual saving of EUR 400 million up to 2048, so I think we see the differences: the differences in management, the differences in which we are a coherent government and, of course, we will always defend the rights of the Greeks in relation to the AP-9; we will always defend that we want the transfer of AP-9. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to the next round to keep answering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u238	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u239	Counsellor, I don't know whether you're reinventing history or whether Mr. Jorquera has ever been Minister of Development. But, as I know, the Ministers of Development were the Socialist Party or the People's Party, who adopted these measures. [[Applause]] Look at one thing, if there is any political group that had an absolutely clear and coherent stance, which defended the transfer of AP-9 into the Greek Parliament and the Madrid Parliament, it was the Galego Nationalist Block, which was really what promoted the law that this Parliament approved on two occasions. You know it perfectly well. And whoever vetoed that transfer, who vetoed that ransom, was the governments of Madrid, whatever the sign they were. So don't come here reinventing history or telling lies, that they can do it very well. Of course, you say you have written a letter — the letter from the Magi — to the Ministry of Development and to the concessionaire, but what you have not told us is what effective measures have been taken to avoid these situations. And we have made concrete proposals for concrete measures. We talked to him about a protocol of action before the retentions, we told him about the increase in staff, we told him about sanctioning files and fines to the concessionaires, and you, as much as you announce, haven't done any sanctioning files yet, they haven't sent any fines to the concessionaire. They are absolutely consensive and permissive in the face of these abuses. And what we're not going to admit here is that it doesn't tell us lies about that supposed seven million savings. First, because if it was so bad, so serious and so unfair, why did you keep it for five years that you were ruling in Madrid and Galician Union? Why have they kept him all these years? [[Applause]] And then they don't lie because it's not 400 million, because 7 million, multiplied by the years that lack concession, it's 217 million, and they can't double and multiply by two. And he also knows perfectly well that this is going to be a result of the new system of calculation that the Ministry of Development and the Union have been operating in tariffs since 2006. This was published in the Official State Gazette, and as a result of this new system of calculation, a number of amounts will be saved that are the ones that stop spending the Galician Union and will therefore assume the Ministry of Development those payments, but because if you are going to save money, it's not for any other reason. The new compensation amounts calculated under the new system are lower than the authorised expenditure commitments, which enables and motivates the General Administration of the State to fully finance that canon. So don't come here with the achievements of that follow-up commission that you didn't get at all, that you had a meeting that didn't do anything for nothing, like the state investments, that didn't do anything for nothing either. Look, Counsellor, in 2011, an agreement was signed between the Ministry of Development and the concessionaire, which means the increase of that 1% cumulative. But, of course, you later in 2012 and 2013 were ruling and they kept that agreement, they applauded that agreement, put the first stone of the extension of Rande Bridge and they will inaugurate the extension of Rande Bridge. They were able to change that agreement, they were able to modify that agreement, they could make those costs of enlargement work impact on State budgets or on the profits of the concessionaire, who see that there are not sufficient benefits to finance these actions! I told them in my first intervention that you don't paint anything. The truth is they do paint, unfortunately they do! They are collaborators, indispensable collaborators of the outrage and the spole to which our country is subjecting itself to the theme of AP-9. [[Applause]] You're the fundamental piece. The Welsh PP, Mr Feijóo, the German Government, the People's Party sitting on that bench are a fundamental part, accomplices and collaborators of that policeman. They are the executioners of submission, vassalage and servitude, both to the Government of Madrid and to friendly companies, as to the Audasa company, as to the Ence, as to the Iberdrola, as well as to the electricians, as to all the companies where you later sit on the board of directors. So BNG won't shut up. BNG will continue to defend Galicia's interests, will continue to denounce this policeman and this outrage and we will not stop until we get the transfer of AP-9 and the release of the concession to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u240	Thank you, Mr Bará. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u241	Thank you, President. You know well that I mean when socialists ruled with you in the Union and with their support in Madrid. In any case, I insist, in 2007, the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament, you voted against the transfer of AP-9, so this story is in the Journal of Sessions. And allow me to stress to you that you don't have the exclusive in defending the interests of the Greeks, the facts are there and they cast differences. You don't seem to like reality, but it was the Socialist Party and the White Minister who shielded that agreement with fist and letter to fund the AP-9 enlargement works in Rande and the AP-9 enlargement, and from then on tied up a 1% cumulative increase and paid the dealership an 8% of fixed interest. So imagine what I think of this agreement. A government you supported and the party they were ruling here in Galicia. Of course, he left none of that government to negotiate and prevent the increase in the fee of AP-9, and it was the two-party Government who signed the agreement that forced the Galician Union to pay up to today 60 million euros, and that, of course, thanks to that AP-9 commission we will stop paying. In any case, about the AP-9 commission I think you have to clarify, because on the one hand they undervalue it and call it what they call it, and on the other hand they bring initiatives to the House so that certain matters are dealt with in this forum. So, or it's a pantomime, as you wanted to say, but the truth is that we're moved some questions so that we take them to that forum, so I think you know perfectly well that it's useful and effective that AP-9 commission. A commission that has produced important results, especially for the pockets of the Greeks, putting an end to the U.S.'s obligation to subsidise the toll of a road that is the title of the State, so it is not a title road of the Galician Union—and again I mean, a ruinous agreement signed by you when they were ruling with the Bipartite—or avoiding that these Audasa peas did not want to be impacted before the works were completed. Now you're asking for the liberalisation of the AP-9 fee. They make a lot of noise, but the truth is what they're trying to do is deceive people by saying that by transferring the road the road will be free, and you know perfectly well that it won't be that way. I insist again, the Greek Government doesn't like the beaches, and we're consistent. You put the cry in the sky when as a counterbalance, for an investment of about 300 million euros, you're going to raise a toll, but when you decide increases of 4.4%, for example, they didn't say anything because it was when the Bipartite ruled, and of course, you were silent. So it seems that the rise of the beaches seems to be the fault of the Galician Union, and it's not. You shut up when during the Bipartite the average rate increase was 3.5%, and by the way, without any work in return. So be consistent. Let's hope they're consistent. You're still mixing discussions. He said you want to move that the transfer of AP-9 is free, and you know it's not, there are heritage responsibilities to fulfill. Our option will never be to pay a single payment of millions of euros to a dealership. Of course, it's a solution that we'll never support getting money out of the citizens' pockets to hand them over to a private company. So we will continue to be consistent, and we will encourage them to be consistent as well, defending that the highway is Welsh and working to achieve that transfer is materialized, but we will continue to defend the interests of the Greeks. We have requested a new meeting of the AP-9 Follow-up Commission to deal with a number of issues, and therefore the compensation measures agreed with the Mayor of Roundola, which exceed the EUR 7 million. Of course there's that commitment to do so, and they're going to be executed. Also to address possible bonuses, as I spoke to the commodity transport federations, for road safety and also for competitiveness. Therefore, working with facts, delivering 210 kilometers of high-performance routes in full economic crisis. The first and only Government that has implemented bonuses on autonomic roads; they are the cheapest in Spain the autonomic roads. So, work and facts. I'm sorry that when they rule quietly and in opposition they make noise, I have to regret it. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u242	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with point 7 of the agenda, which is the question to the Government. Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, from G.P. of En Marea, on the opinion of the Government of Greece on the statements by the Attorney-General for the Environment regarding the fires declared in Galicia in mid-October 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u243	Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u244	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. It says the dictionary of the Royal Galega Academy on the noun terrorism that is the use of violence in attacks, kidnappings, etc., by a political organization as a means to achieve its ends. And the fireman says it's what causes or willfully causes a fire. In 2006, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Galicia made a report to determine what were the causes of fire strikes; the report was updated in the years 2010 and 2011. In all cases, the Prosecutor's Office concluded that there was no criminal organization in the wake of the fires. Now, the environmental prosecutor defends that they repeat the same patterns and patterns that have occurred in the past, and that we therefore have no reason to change our opinion as to the causes of the fires. The wood sector is also concerned with the hypothesis that the real problem of the Greek mountains is the absence of forest and agricultural policies according to our surroundings, as well as the depopulation of rural areas and the null institutional interest in supporting a sustainable, long-term forest economy. We therefore have good reason to think that the statements by Nuñez Feijóo, printed with public money, in addition to hasty and opportunistic, were radically false. In order to clean up his bad image, the Government of the Union has added more than 77,000 euros from all the Greeks and Greeks to a printed announcement that reproduced the statements of the president on Monday 16. These statements focused on responsible for the incendiary terrorists of the fires that struck Galicia at the end of the week of October 15. To this day, we continue to have no proof of the existence of such terrorists. The environmental prosecutor accumulates lots of research into forest fires, even about that important wave of 2006 and has recommended from the very first moment calm, prudent and let researchers work before launching conclusions based on theories rather than on data, clues or evidence. To this day, there has never been evidence of incendiary plots in the country, and you are warned of a complex problem, with many factors and many variables. The Prosecutor's Office will coordinate the search for ongoing investigations, and ensure that all efforts will be made to shed light on a phenomenon that will never have a common conclusion for all cases. As soon as they asked the prosecutor that he would recommend to the administrations or the political class right now, he replied that we should wait for the results of the investigations and that we will talk about the certainty and what we are able to prove. But I -- he said -- I'm not able to recommend anything to an administration. Let us let the researchers work, and from what they tell us and indicate, we will make hypotheses and proposals. That's what the current president of the board didn't do, but he did the opposite. He advised the Counsellor, advised the deputies and the general director of Montes, and said there was a plot of incendiary terrorism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u245	Thank you. You understand the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u246	But I didn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u247	Yeah, but it was documented. Thank you. [[Applause]] Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. I'm going to start answering with another question as a good Welshman. How do you consider, or what he calls, those who set fire to the mountains? Awake! Worried? Firemen? Well, chance of life, I don't hesitate to consider them terrorists, and I'll repeat it once and for a thousand times, because they act against the environment, because they act against the fauna and against the flora, and especially because they act against people and against human lives. [[Applause]] And these are terrorists, they're not cheated, they're not worried, they're not random. It really points out that you have so much difficulty in recognizing the intent of the fires that we have just lived and that you refuse to speak of incendiary terrorism. The president never mentioned a plot, this advisor never spoke of a plot, but we do speak a thousand times, and we will continue to repeat it, of terrorists. Just remind them of some data that you know perfectly well. Extreme weather conditions, strong winds, high day and night temperatures and very low environmental humidity were given, and from there, Galicia suffers during a bridge, for a weekend, on the Pilar bridge, an unprecedented and incendiary attack. There are no precedents here. If the day with most activity would burn in August of this same year there were 51 fires, on August 21, 2017; October 15 started 131. The activity at night hours, i.e., between 1930 hours on Saturday and 8 o'clock in the morning on Sunday, 46 fires. And on the same schedule, from Sunday to Monday, 88 started. They were riots, they were neglectful, it was random...? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you remember the year 2006, the People's Party didn't rule. Well, I was ruling, it was the People's Party, and it was ruling in a people. At that point, we were talking about terms and also about differences, and then we were talking about plots. August, 2006: "The Union will work for the terrorists to end up in prison." And Mr. Quintana added that there was a new type of fire in Galicia that demonstrated the intention of the pyromans to do harm, burning near the houses and the channels of communication. August 2006, the Secretary General of Vice-President Antón Losada said: "The fires must be given the criminal treatment of terrorism." And he kept saying, "We're facing an attack with a degree of suspicious planning, and we've got a small army of disembarras, that's the reality."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u249	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u251	Replica, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u252	Thank you, President. Counsellor, since the Parliamentary Group of En Marea will never hear us speak or doubt the intent of the fires, that doesn't put it in our mouth. The People's Party doesn't miss a single chance to lie. Not even the wave of fires, so they should assume political responsibilities, has woken up in the formation of their government the least hidden honesty. Even the popular concierge in Vigo, Mr. Gago, lied in full chaos. This conceler, president of New Generations, enjoys the support of the main people of the People's Party. Many have already been pointed out as the possible successor of Fraga and Feijóo, and considering the fairness with which he speaks between the two sides of the war goes the right way. Then even that concierge, when the fire strike showed his worst face, he answered a radio interview saying that the city was burning on four sides because of an intentional attack. He made sure that multiple light cuts were being produced and that the water had stopped drinking because of contamination. Days later he claimed that he had defended those facts without proof that they were being held up because that's what people were talking about in the street. So it was shown who wasn't what the neighborhood said, but it was the argumentary of the People's Party that day. With his statements, Diego Gago made new merits before his superiors at the cost of misinformationing and lying to citizenship, which faced the worst tragedy experienced in Vigo's recent history. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what the Royal Galega Academy dictionary says about the adjective will lie: what a lie or habitual lie. And as synonyms, it brings: lodger, bulldozer, bulldozer, cheater, liar, cheater, trolley, cheater, cheater or cheater. That's what Mr. Feijóo did when he lied about the origin of the fires, and he was overstepped by his own forest policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u253	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Closing shift from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. But how dare they say here that the president of the board lied about the origin of the fire? Prove you lied about this. Why? [[Murmurs.]] Why do they say that? Look, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest respect to all the things that are said about it, but it is true that the actions of the incendiaries, indiscriminately attacking everything and everyone, to the heritage and to the lives, even ending them, are acts of terrorists themselves, and as such should be taken by everyone. Those indiscriminate actions are terrorist acts, whether individually or in a group. The reality is that they cause damage, and that damage hurts us a lot more, above all, when it affects human lives. And as you named Vigo, so I, if you will, I also call you Vigo. And they are not the words of any conceler, but they are statements by the chief commissioner of Vigo, who says, "There is no doubt that all the fires occurred in the urban center of Vigo at the hands of the man. We think what was done is not the matter of an occasional citizen who went out to burn, but there are several authors. He's not Vigo's concierge, he's the chief commissioner of Vigo. "Of course there's a certain organization, it doesn't make sense a fire on a Gran Via sun." Lieutenant colonel of the Civil Guard of Pontevedra: "In Peace in Borbonne we found that 9 focuss were caught at different points of the municipality in a period of just 20 minutes. We think that's very difficult for a single person to do it." They're not statements from any concierge, they're another type of professional statements we respect. Co-ordinator of the Environment and Urbanism of Spain: "It is not worth going out for peteneras, it must be assumed that it is a crime committed by energies with catastrophic consequences, even in cases where recklessness can be demonstrated". This is the existing reality. And what does Galician Union do? Then work so this doesn't happen again. In fact, yesterday the presidents of three autonomous communities — of course, Asturias and Castile-Leon — made a joint institutional statement in which they proposed, among other things, to promote cooperation with the Council of the Judiciary, the Attorney General's Office of the State and the Autonomous Communities of Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon, and the bodies and institutions in defence of the environment, to establish joint lines of action for better coordination in the fight against forest fires, as well as training and improvement activities for judges, magistrates and prosecutors destined for these autonomous communities; and for other professionals involved. These and many more, with an end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u255	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u256	...and this end is to end the wave of fire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u257	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u258	...and with the incendiaries, who are real terrorists in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u259	Thank you. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the proposal of the Government of Galicia so that Galicia does not lose in the negotiation of the new model of self-financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u260	Question by Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos, of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u261	Mr. Martínez, we nationalists are once again bringing to this House our concern about the revision of the financing system and Galician position. You know perfectly well that, behind this debate that often seems abstract, its result will mark our future. Issues as important as safeguarding our basic services: education, health, social services or dependence, will depend primarily on what Galicia achieves in this negotiation. We'd dare even say it's the most important immediate challenge our country has. That's why since the BNG we are extremely concerned about the attitude of the German Government, which is between absentee and indifferent; more concerned — it seems — of the accounts of Catalonia or Basquedi than of doing their own duties. And there are reasons to be worried, because in the last revision, the creation of various funds, you know perfectly well that they had a greater weight for the population, and that made our country lose. That made it possible for Galicia to lose in respect of what had happened other years—merit, by the way, of the Feijóo Government. By its fiasco, today there are several elements — such as aging or population dispersion — that do not count as they should. And we've made no progress, to show you a button. We are in full budgetary debate and the approach to the financing model is almost identical to that of ten years ago in the 2018 budgets. Ten years in which you give us a fixed picture that shows your political failure and the little weight that your voice has in the Spanish state. In the meantime, it must also be said that your colleagues in the central government didn't look. First, they have been breaking the law since 2014. And then they took the ugly habit of being lying over and over again. The most recent — to summarize — this same year, in January, at the Conference of Presidents and Presidents, Mr Rajoy assured that before the end of 2017 the new financing system would be ready. In a few weeks, Mr. Martínez, we're going to take the grapes, and the last thing Mr. Rajoy said was he couldn't even guarantee a date. But in this chronology of shame, what we're most concerned about is that you seem to be copying Mr. Rajoy. Last week you had to deliver your assessment on the report of the Committee of Experts, and we don't know anything about what Gallica said and whether some sort of evaluation was sent, proposed, whether something was said, or whether, as always, it was fair. Today morning the BNG spokesperson, Ana Pontón, also asked Mr. Feijóo about this matter, and we received nothing as an answer beyond throwing balloons out. I hope you can tell me something different. So, I ask you, Counselor, what is the proposal of the German Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u263	...in this moment of negotiation of the new financing system?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u265	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Your Honor. In fact, we have had the opportunity to debate this issue once again in this Parliament. The position of the German Government — let me define it in four questions — is already known, is a firm, coherent and improvised position. But at the same time let me forward three decisions, three questions I want to talk about today in my first intervention. The first, the first, is to reject BNG's proposal to formulate a cup concert for Galicia. Believe me when I tell you it's for technical, economic and social reasons; there's no mediumistically serious study to ensure that the coupon concert system is better for Galicia. On the contrary, there are serious technical studies that tell us that we would lose about EUR 1 billion on the current situation. So that's the first question we've saved the Greeks, 1 billion euros, not paying attention to the posture you're defending. I'm very sorry that BNG is still installed in a purely ideological formulation, not in a position as I have just commented on, of a social, economic and technical nature, let me tell you. Second decision. The Greek Government has long manifested itself, through purely loyal actions and with timely firmness, that we reject any of the advantages that are not justified. I'm referring to a very specific subject, when, for example, you raise the issue of debt relief. During these years, the responsible behaviour of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We've always met all the parameters we've given ourselves before all of us. We haven't been rescued or needed any help, but at the same time, we recognized that there are autonomous communities that if they needed the help of the central government. And always firm, and that firmness is what allowed us — the second amount I give you today — to go to a mechanism such as financial ease, which currently guarantees for the Autonomous Community of Galicia about EUR 350 million. And thirdly, let me put black on white, and as clearly as possible, which are the guiding principles of our posture. Firstly — and we are talking two centuries and something later — the principle of equality. We're not talking about territories here, we're talking about people. All people are equal, and people need the same public services all over the country. Second principle, of enough, what we want for today, we want for the morning, for the future. But at the same time, there is something that comes into play with the first principle that I said, the same ability that I recognize for myself, I also recognize it for others, that is called a multilateral consensus, never of a bilateral nature. But at the same time, I've already told you before, what we really need is to evaluate spending needs, and for that we have to take into account the peculiarities, such as those that demonstrate in a scientific way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u267	...the Autonomous Community of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u268	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u269	Mr. Martínez, you started with a truth, it is true that something has been said about this issue in this House. It must also be said that always, every time we speak in this House of Model Financing, it was either by an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block or by an initiative of the Socialist Party. And that indicates that, one, you, of dialogue, little; and, two, you, of fulfilling your responsibilities, little too. [[Murmurs.]] And the proof is that you, instead of answering my question, rather than giving me specific data on whether or not you said anything about the communications you had to send on behalf of this country last week, Mr. Martínez, of which this Parliament knows absolutely nothing, whether or not it existed and with what content, you give the silence in response. What he did was to oppose the opposition, which is the favorite physical exercise of the government party. First, I remind you that I am a member of the Galego Nationalist Block, the political organization that has brought here the discussion of the FLA is in Marea, but, well, Mr Lago — who is not — will see the video and be answered. At no time did this political organization propose to join the FLA. I asked him about the position of the country and you answered me talking about the BNG proposal, which I didn't even announce in my first intervention. I didn't even talk at any time about the economic concert or you didn't take good care of it, Mr. Martínez. In any case, I say, do you not think of a democratic asymtonism that you know perfectly what this political group defends for this country, but that this political group, the Greeks and the Greeks, or any other opposition group, we know that lightning defends the Greek Government in Madrid when it is going to negotiate in our name? Mr. Martínez, please, a little serious. The only thing I've ever objected to is that -- understanding that by the intervention of Ana Pontón in the morning, where we ask and we reiterate that, if they have so much political weight in Madrid, they open a bilateral negotiation with the Spanish State -- you are more of a multilateral consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u271	Because it's bilateral or multilateral...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u273	... please tell me something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u274	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u275	...the position of Galicia right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u276	Thank you. Thank you very much. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u277	Thank you again, Mr. President. I think we're a little bit in a 180-degree dialogue. You go this way, we go another way. Let me tell you that the three decisions I just made to you are sufficiently explicit about what our position is. That posture which, curiously, is not improvised. We've always had the same but evolutionary character, because this has to be analyzed in relation to inside and out. First of all — I repeat — we have made progress when you yourself have just confirmed that you are no longer talking about concert. I hope they'll continue with the same tonic. Again, there is no technical and economic study, which shows that a system of tax capacity is better for the interests of the Greeks than a system that drives on expenditure needs. That's called the principle of equality, and that's why we have to guarantee enough right now and in the future. Why does he force me to ask certain numerical questions to see if I'm right or not? I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm sorry, president, I'd like to finish... [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Secondly, this autonomous community and this government have no anxiety whatsoever. Why, because he's got his duties done. We are currently busy in the process of the new system of self-financing because we have done our homework after all these years. We have communicated and participated in the technical work of the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council. And at the same time, we always raise our proposals, which they are trying to reflect on equality. And equality for Galicia has a very specific peculiarity, such as aging, with a very important impact on health; the greatest demand in the Spanish state linked to health. It's also a matter of weights, not only measuring some variables. It's of vital importance also in the different social policies. And it's also important to have the low birth rate that we have right now. All this has to be put in common. In common with whom? With the people around us. And the people around us have some autonomous governments like they were yesterday at Asturias and Castle-Leon, because even in a negotiating period, what is to establish certain levels of alliances. There we are, and I wish that level of alliances could be completed with much of this Parliament. I know it's a utopia to raise for all a consensus, but I think there's no better question of a country at the moment than self-financing, so that's our position. But — I repeat it again — without any kind of anxiety, because right now we have the duties done. It's a lot of what we've done over the years and we won't let...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u279	...no kind of comparative attack. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u280	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the impulse to the central government of the port and urban transformation of the city of Coruña through the establishment of a public consortium to lead this challenge
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u281	Question by Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u282	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. In 1992, the Aegean Sea lined up next to the Tower of Hercules when in the memory of the coruncases and the coruncases there was still the Urquiola cloud of 1976, sinking in the middle of the bay. On December 19, 2002, the Prestige — fifteen years ago — broke out in two, emptying 77,000 tons of crude that were distributed along the Galician coasts, causing one of the greatest disasters and environmental disasters in maritime history and generating a broad debate on the need for the eradication of the ports of refuge — yet unsolved — and the conditions for the navigation of the oil tankers. Not only did the Coruña join these debates, but it joined the experience of three recent shipwrecks, and also the consciousness of having in its basement, in four neighborhoods, six kilometers of gas and crude pipelines from The Castros to the refinery. This is in this context when the central government's approval of the firm commitment to the construction of the outer port is achieved. On February 4, 2004, an agreement was signed between the Central Government, Junta, Adif and the Artexo and Coruña municipalities, which was intended, among other things, to provide for the use of the soils occupied by the inland port. The agreement itself, Counsellor, collects that the Ministry — it is literal — considers that the rearrangement of these lands, once processed its decommissioning according to the Vigilant Harbour Law, should serve to improve and develop the urban structures of the Crown, to achieve a close of the maritime facade of highest architectural quality and to improve the security and environmental quality of the city. Over the past few months, the debate about the present and future of the port and the inner facade of the city has returned to a foreground, with permanent clashes between the municipal government of the Coruña and the Ministry of Development through Ports of State and the Harbour Authority of the Coruña, and even, Counsellor, with the use, by the President of the Union, of powers of non-autonomic competition over the uses of the port soils, leaving no one on earth the project for the city. Conscious of this and also of the secular importance of the port in the city of Coruña, both from an economic and social point of view, the socialists call on all institutions — the Council, Porto, Together, Development and Adif — and their political leaders, of course, to understand and reach agreements at a crucial moment for the city, for the outer port, and to develop the necessary steps to put in place a public consortium, an instrument of interinstitutional collaboration, which deals with the work necessary for proper decommissioning of the land and its necessary management. The current clashes between administrations not only contribute not only to improving the economic positioning of the city and the port, but also to contributing to a malicious and interested debate that seeks to discredit a necessary, modern and called to be the economic motor of northern Galicia, while it takes precisely the necessary transformation of the inner maritime facade of the city. That's why the Socialist Parliamentary Group, once again aware of the importance of the port system for the Crown and throughout Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u283	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u284	...submits the following question, Mr President:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u285	We've met her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u286	...that forecasts have the Government of Greece to push...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u287	Thank you very much. You've met. Thank you very much. He's known. Thank you. [[Applause]] Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u288	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Díaz, the predictions this government has for the port transformation of the Coruña I think they are clear in a meridian way. We want a solution, a solution that doesn't go through confrontation or political caciquism, a solution that must go through doing more The Coruña and doing it from where it has always broken the growth of the city, from the port. In this solution, based on realism, two objectives must be taken into account: one, that Coruña has a public heritage in the inner port, because that is the key to the future of the structure of the city; but also this solution must be given without leading to a situation of economic and financial difficulty for the port, because that is the future of the port structure. Therefore, the wharves of Calvo Sotelo and Battery will continue to be part of the public heritage of all the Crownese, to devote them to making more cities. Likewise, there is also agreement that the lands currently occupied by La Solana should not be sold, continue to be public ownership, and thus maintain their current status. So, as the president of the Union himself pointed out, these three lands are already on the same path, serving the krunis and that they continue to evaluate the chances of the utility of the San Diego pier, whose concession expires in several years. We have agreement and on it there is a firm commitment by the Board of Galicia and the Ports of the State, and this is of course: the future of the interior port lands will serve to make more cities, to make the Coruña a more habitable city and in time ensure the sustainability of the Harbour Authority in its task of maintaining the competitiveness of the movement bench of the corrupt economy. So in the coming weeks this content and scope of the agreement will be realized and we will start a new phase where the important thing is not to create consortia or other administrative figures, and much less to discuss politically about it. It is managed by a consortium or by any other figure, the Board has already shown its willingness to be part of it. The important thing was to arrive at this agreement and put it into practice so that this global solution could be placed on this topic so important for the Crown, with only one basic premise, which would put forward the neighbours of the Crown. And the neighbors are the first from the point and time at which the progressive transfer from the inner part of the activity of the port to the outer port is ensured and since this transfer is twice as beneficial: promoting more movement and economic activity through Punta Langosteira and generating more social use of important inner harbour spaces in the center of the Coruña. So we have the foresight to bring the agreement forward and to do so for the benefit of the corunasis and the corunasis. I think they well deserve us all to join in this goal, because here the background is much more important than form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u289	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u290	Mrs. Quintana, unilateral agreements between Galician and Ports of State, because I don't know where Adif is, I don't know exactly where the Town Hall of Coruña is, I don't know where the Town Hall of Artexo is either. The principles of institutional loyalty, Counsellor, and Inter-Administrative Cooperation, the need for the Coruña's citizenship to improve its quality and its urban environment, a correct reading of the port-city interrelationship and the need to promote a new environmental economic stage oblige all political and public actors — as far as the City Council is concerned — to agree on the transformation of its port façade. The successive actions of the President of the Harbour Authority of the Coruña, Mr Losada, appointed by a proposal from the German Government, at all seem to follow these premises. Let's remember the attempt to auction the best bidder of Solana and Finisterre, who had to stop precisely even by their own accords in the city hall, supported by the People's Party itself; there was no other. By the way, the main conclusions of the Court of Auditors' audit report in May of this year on the execution of the foreign port at Punta Langosteira also do not leave the proceedings of the Presidency of the Port Authority of the Crown in a very good position. Mrs Quintana, you know perfectly well that the Law of Ports of the State and the Merchant Navy, the recast text of 2011, have the necessary inter-administrative coordination, the possibility of free transfer to public administrations of damaged land of the public harbour domain and the possibility of participation, precisely, of the port authorities in public consortia. Why did large cities such as Barcelona, such as Bilbao, Valencia, Amsterdam or Genoa bet and bet on interinstitutional collaboration formulas for the reformulation and urban integration of the large unaffected harbour spaces and in Coruña we have to attend the quasi-secret meetings between the President of the Union and Ports of the State of Back to the Town Council, from back to back to the city, to take unilateral agreements? Why, Counselor? Give us an answer, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u291	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u292	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Díaz, look, the truth is, sometimes it's hard for me to understand them. That is, on the one hand, there is a request from the Council of the Crown and a request from this Parliament itself to intervene the President of the Council of Galicia to resolve the conflict that exists around the port of the Crown, and, when the President of the Union intervenes, he is criticized for intervening. The truth is, we're going to keep working on the same line we came to, and I don't think we should go into political confrontation. I believe that both you and us and the mayor of the Coruña themselves have to work to make the port of Coruña more competitive, and on that line we are some working, and to make a better possible integration between the port and the citizenship. Look, you're talking about a consortium formula. I say I don't refuse any formula; I don't care about consortium than that of no consortium. All I'm saying is we already have examples. You mentioned some, Bilbao and Valencia. They went to the consortium formula and eventually they were broken and had to look for other formulas to get those ports forward. So if a formula no longer works in some ports, let's not try to make the same mistakes. You doubt the activity of the Harbour Authority. Well, look, the year where the biggest billing was made in the port of Coruña was the year 2005, with 14.6 million tons moved that year. Well, we're in 2017 almost reaching those same figures that were in 2005. The outer port of the Coruña, Punta Langosteira, is already generating a great activity. We already have over 35 million investments made by companies that are developing their projects at Punta Langosteira, and what we're doing is we're able to move all those actions that up to now were being done in the inland port of the Coruña to Punta Langosteira, thus making it possible for the coruñas to enjoy their integration with port activity as well. But look, what can't be possible is that you ask for something and you're against it, and you want the Harbour Authority to be profitable and we too, so it's collected in your business plan. I don't think it's going to be more port of the Coruña by going up the IBI to the port of the Coruña; a rise of the IBI — which has happened in the last year — of more than 113%; the Harbour Authority has gone to pay 200,000 euros of IBI to pay more than 540,000 euros of taxes. That's no more port, it's no more Coruña. So, Mr. Díaz, I think we're not going to be wrong if we say that from the City of Galicia, from the Harbour Authority and from this Parliament we're going to continue fighting for the port of Coruña to be a port that generates wealth, that generates value and that also enables to develop the city that you want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u293	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the measures planned by the Galician Union in the face of the situation of water failure that is living the metropolitan area of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u294	Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u295	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I'm going to start reading a press headline today. "The Board reduces the ecological flow of the Eighthven 47 days after Vigo's request. He does so because of the extreme severity of the drought" -- that we all know he started yesterday -- "and because he sees the supply at risk for Vigo's inability to clean up the water." Of course, it had to be the responsibility of the mayor of Vigo to the drought itself, the positabilization of the water and part of the Israeli Arab conflict. In the Galician Waters Act, Law 9/2010 — I believe Mr Feijóo ruled — it is said that the autonomous Community is responsible for extraordinary measures in the event of a need to ensure the supply of water. In Article 5.3, it is said that the planning, programming, project, construction and operation of declared hydraulic works of interest in the Autonomous Community is the case for Galician waters. We're talking about the supply of water not only to Vigo City Hall, 300,000 inhabitants, but the Vigo Metropolitan Area, 450,000 inhabitants, seven municipalities, governed by the Socialist Party some, by the other Galego Nationalist Block and the People's Party, and it seems that the Galician Union actually took it with a certain relaxation, I imagine that by asking for reports that believed the existence of drought in Galicia. He asked the Vigo municipal government to reduce the ecological flow of nearly 600 litres per second to 150 litres per second, precisely the cause of this drought. You, your counsellor, expressed regret at reducing that ecological flow, when in 2011, with a much more positive hydrological situation, much better, that is, with many smaller water supply difficulties, there was absolutely no problem at all in reducing it. So this is the first question that we would like to know; that is, in 2011 it decreased without any problem and it takes 47 days in 2017, when the drought situation is much bigger, with the paradox, moreover, that this ecological flow of Eiras prey was increased in October of this year, considering that the drought was a distant phenomenon on Galicia's climate horizon. We all know that. And, on the other hand, we would also like to know why the Galician Board took exactly these nearly two months to assume the construction of a transvasion from the River Verdugo to the River Oitaven to strengthen supply—I repeat—not only from Vigo City Hall, Counsellor... I know that you and the People's Party are constantly talking about Vigo Town Hall, but one out of three citizens affected by all these hydraulic works does not belong to Vigo Town Hall, belong to this metropolitan area of Vigo, which you dynamite because you didn't rule it. So the question: after a month of alert...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u296	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u297	...dry, what are you planning to do, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u298	Thank you. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u299	Mr. Losada, I'll try, in these three minutes, not only to respond to the information about compliance with the current legislation, but also to all that we've done. You know, or you should know, that since 2013 this government has approved a drought plan. I think it's the best way to prove that this is a serious government, that this is a responsible government, and that when no one could imagine, if it happens, that we could have a situation like the one we're living in today, the government already has a roadmap where there's clearly the action protocol. Beyond that serious and responsible government that makes a drought plan with that protocol, which was also an instruction since 2001 that has an obligation, and that is that all the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants — obviously Vigo is one of them — should have already approved a drought emergency plan targeted by Galician Waters, a specific drought emergency plan, which, of course, Vigo has not done. Thanks to the responsibility and rigour of the Galician Union, we know, as I said, what we have to do, and also the way we have to coordinate with all the municipalities. We know the situation in which Galicia has been living since September 2016; in particular the southern area of Vigo has been informed of the situation of the advance, and we have done so as we should, first of all in writing. So, by September 2016, we contacted Vigo to inform you of the advance. But not only in September, but in May, we sent to the Vigo Council and to all the municipalities that were in advance a letter — that Vigo's in concert is this — where we gave him the recommendations of all the measures he would have to take to reduce — which is the most important — the saving of water consumption, and even to raise awareness of citizenship, something that he would have done or with bands or, of course, sending letters to businesses and society as a whole. [[Madam Environment and Territory Planning Adviser, Mato Otero, shows the letter.]] I am not happy with this, indeed, in October the warning was declared because the weather conditions were so difficult, and we sent another letter again with a series of recommendations to the Vigo Council for sending bands or sending letters to companies and to the citizenry. [[Mato Otero, Environment and Territory Planning Counsellor, Mato Otero, shows another letter.]] And what did the Vigo Town Hall do, Mr. Losada? Do you think this cover is a mayor worried about the drought, which is August 24th, and where's a news saying, "Coaches in the Navia macro-tobogan," precisely to convert Vigo into a water park center? [[Mato Otero, Environment and Territory Planning Counsellor, Mato Otero, shows the cover.]] Do you think a mayor worried about the drought so long ago would make Vigo a water park? And do you think that a mayor worried about the drought, even when the alert — not the advance warning — is declared, when we send the third letter to the mayor of Vigo, would say there would be no water restrictions in the Vigo Town Hall? Or do you think a serious mayor is worried about the alert...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u300	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u301	...would I lie to myself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u302	You have another shift later, Counselor. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u303	Counsellor, what a good candidate for the mayor of Vigo loses the People's Party! It's a shame they'll present it in the Coruña! [[Applause]] Look, the tobogan of Columbus Street you know perfectly well, and the Members and Members of Vigo who accompany you, who were in the water closed circuit, and, if you don't know... yes, yes, if you know what a closed circuit is, Mr Tellado. [[Murmurs.]] Is he capable? [[Laughter]] Good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u304	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u305	Look, Counselor, in a dry situation, it's very good...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u306	Quiet. If not, of course, you have to give him more time. Quiet, don't interrupt, please, no one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u307	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u308	Silence! Please, Mr. Vega!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u309	Well, that's intellectual support for the subject. [[Laughter]] Water Plan 2010-2025, summary document. I insist, Water Plan 2010-2025, summary document. Here is the obligation to act on supply, to strengthen the hydraulic supply of Vigo. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez shows a document.]] February 2013, update of the Galician Supply Plan. Here comes back what you should have done and not done, Counselor. Drought plan, which, in fact, read it — for this reason to be able to read — Demarcation Galicia-Costa, indeed, pages 137 and 138 — if you have to look for it now, on the march — where you put what the Government of Galicia has to do in relation to Vigo. None of that if you've done it, Counselor; none of that if you've done it! That's right, they've started a strategy of climate change in the papers, in the June 16 press releases, because we're talking about climate change, Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u310	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u311	...on June 16th, on June 23rd... thank you very much for calling me Mr. Abel, Mr. Tellado, really... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u312	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u313	That's right, some other autonomous community like the Basque Country has been on us for two years. And look, Counselor, do you know what you have to do?: make water politics for the Greeks and don't make water politics for the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u314	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u315	Thank you very much. You'll forgive me, Mr. Losada, but whatever paper you played now with this question. Get some paper! [[Applause]] And I can tell you why. Look, it was fifty days later. The problem is that they're no longer the words that your mayor can say, or even anyone else, the problem is the writing. Fifty days after the warning has been declared, not earlier, Mr. Mayor of Vigo, despite telling the media that industries were untouchable, sends a letter requesting from the industries to make a water saving; fifty days after the warning is declared! You, who knows the legislation -- because, as you say very well, read -- should know what are the priorities in the use of water, and above all the priority in the use of water is the service to citizenship, that is, human consumption; followed by the protection of the environment, that is, the ecological flow; followed by the agribusiness; and followed by the industrialists; and therefore, going into chains reducing uses and affecting uses. The ecological flow did not touch until, in fact, the Vigo Town Hall and all the municipalities could show that they took action. Mr. Losada, 50 days after declaring himself alert to Vigo's mayor, he asks industry to make an effort. That's not to work with responsibility, because he's playing with the health of all his neighbors. And do you know why he plays with the health of all his neighbors? First of all, because there is a poser, who owns the Town Hall, who already has a report since 2010 that says she's not prepared to meet in periods of water scarcity and which has deficits; that is, it doesn't work properly. And what has Mr. Mayor of Vigo and the Vigo Town Hall done in that positator since 2010? Nothing. What did you do with the 20 million euros that Aqualia gives you? Well, I guess he'd do a barbarians, dinosaurs... I don't know what he'd do, but what he didn't do was fix a problem he's got Vigo today; that it's not enough water, Mr. Losada, that there's still water for Vigo and the whole area, it's quality; quality caused by inefficiency and lack of management of the Vigo Town Council with its competence, which is the potabilizer. It is not the responsibility of the Galician Union to make supply and sanitation infrastructures. Say it four laws; four, not one, four!: the regulatory basis of the local government of the State, the local administration of the Galician Union, the Water Act of the Galician Union and the State Water Act. Read them, don't be deceived. This article of the Water Law you were talking about is about measures, but about granting and removing authorizations, not infrastructures; infrastructures have to be developed by the Vigo Council, and the Vigo Council, since 2010, had enough money, with those 20 million euros that Aqualia gives you, to invest both in Azud and in any other infrastructure, even in improving the potabilizer. What he did was disloyalty. Until Friday, he didn't give the information he needed the Galician Board to be able to play the ecological flow, Mr. Losada. That's what you're defending.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u316	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Question by D. Gonzalo Trenor López, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union in relation to the drought situation in the Galicia-Costa hydrographic demarcation and the measures taken in coordination with the municipalities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u317	Mr. Trenor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u318	Yes, press headlines: "The Vigo Town Hall keeps the streets in full alert." It looks like those buckets were also made in a closed circuit, doesn't it, Mr. Losada? I should have explained to us how they did it; they should explain to us how the buckets are doing in the closed circuit... Mr. Losada must be very assiduous to throw himself through the toboggans. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He seems like he likes to enjoy toboggans. [[Laughter]] But look, I am glad that at last everyone is aware that Galicia is living a situation that, at least, is uncommon. The first signs arrived in August 2016, where the tails were less than the historical average. Then there were several seasons with less precipitation than in the past half-years; one autumn, one winter, one spring and one summer dry or very dry, between 18% and 36% with less rain, and the situation of this autumn is already known to everyone at all. The Government of Galicia seems to have been the only conscious of this situation since the first moment, and of course long before an entirely irresponsible opposition, which only when the effects are more severe and evident is aware of what is happening. An opposition that was not only not conscious, or that when the pre-late had declared itself oblivious, but that when the measures were taken it was appropriate to boycott them, to hinder and confuse them with messages that denied reality. Look, when the Environment Council, in an interview, warned of the lack of awareness of the need to save water, you made them very funny. When a sensitization campaign was held, you too did a lot of fun. When the pre-war state was declared, and after the alert one, the mayor of the most populous city, ghosts, said he had water to distribute and made the water parties —in a closed circuit, that's right. When the council was asked to act, a president of the parliament denied any competence of the municipalities in water supply...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u319	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u320	But look, counsellor, in front of these exhibitions of political levity, opportunistic and irresponsible speeches, the German Government acted with foresight and following a roadmap, that of the Dry Plan of the Galicia-Costa hydrographic demarcation. Within the framework of this plan, there has been a continuous and comprehensive follow-up to the evolution of water resources. In view of this data, in September 2016, Galician Waters activated the state of pre-war and also constituted the Dry Technical Office, taking appropriate and appropriate measures in each case. In January 2017, the state of pre-arrangement was extended to all operating systems. On October 2, the state of hydrological alert was activated in its operating systems, and yesterday it extended to all demarcation. And despite the fact that supply skills are local authorities, this has not prevented you from helping the municipalities to adopt measures within municipal competences with the aim of reducing non-essential water consumption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u321	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Time's up. Thank you. Environmental Advisor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. For, obviously, Galicia is living in a situation, meteorologically speaking, as Spain is living, absolutely atypical, and indeed has been a concern of this government for a long time. As I say, for some time now, because the first sign of that extremely different weather situation is what we were living here in August 2016, where the advance declaration is made in the southern zone, specifically in systems 1 and 2, which is the Vigo area, and has already been declared in the autumn of last year. After five seasons — which is what we have lived through — with an absolutely abnormal behavior in terms of rain and drought, and aware of this situation, of course, that plan of what we were talking about in the previous question was activated and that today is in force, the so-called Dry Plan, adopted in 2013 by a government, which is indeed this government, serious and responsible, and marks that road map needed to know who and how we must act before the drought. Four basic points are set out in this plan: the first is the mechanisms for forecasting and detecting drought; the second sets out the four phases of successive gravity; the third proposes the measures to be taken; and the fourth defines the protocol of action. Thanks to this situation, as I said earlier, we activated the advance more than fourteen months ago, extended to the Galician coast in January, in particular, on January 12th, and at that time we addressed those with competence, which are the municipalities, so they can take action. First of all, in those letters that we sent to all the councils from January, we said that we would increase the monitoring of drought indicators, making a 15-year follow-up; also that we would monitor intensively the situation in which the arrangements are found; that we would ask the councils, as we did on three occasions, to cooperate in order to promote responsible consumption; and that we would address ourselves to the councils, because they are the competent ones, since the betrayal and the supply network is their responsibility and they are the ones that give access to the users of that betrayal. We also conducted awareness campaigns and, of course, stimulated the authorizations as far as possible. In the month of May, since this abnormality was not recovered, we again contacted them and, as I said, in the face of the worsening, which made the October 2nd 6 systems of the 19 of us competent to declare themselves alert, we made that call again to the Town Councils. We did it in writing, and even we did it at different meetings; meetings we held with the 51 municipalities. It was more than ten meetings to explain the situation we're living in and of course also to ask for measures, including identifying, as we did with the Vigo Council, the infrastructures that they might need and respond to in an emergency situation. It was us who identified two major locations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u323	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u324	...and we also collaborated in the Town Hall in the processing of your authorization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u325	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u326	Counselor, you have been aware of this serious situation from the very first moment. He had the Dry Plan as a roadmap, which marked the steps to follow, setting out the mechanisms for forecasting and detecting drought, proposing the measures to be taken and defining action protocols. He activated the pre-war situation more than fourteen months ago, first on two systems and then on the rest. You have increased monitoring of drought indicators, increased chorus control, you have also asked the municipalities for collaboration in responsible water consumption, proposing measures that would reduce by 10% in consumption, also carried out awareness campaigns and accelerated updates of temporary drifts. In the vicinity of Vigo he did what he was unable to do his mayor, who was a study of alternatives, and offered technical and financial support for the works that will strengthen supply from the Burgo River. In the Coruña area, close collaboration with Emalcsa will enable, when necessary, an interim pumping that takes the water from As Encrobas to Cecebre; a connection that I want to remember here that it was criticized on the left at its moment. I don't know what they're thinking now that the Coruña can be supplied precisely by Lake Encrobas. Madam Counsellor, do you consider, as well as the Government, that the measures taken so far must continue to be stepped up? As a result of the implementation of the drought plan adopted in 2013 and after the meeting of yesterday's drought office, will new measures be taken in the short term? Mrs. Mato, your answer shows that the Galician Union is working with seriousness and realism, which is more valuable considering what others do who have more responsibility than you do when it comes to supply. At best, they were idle; other times making water parties. But they also made completely irresponsible statements and boycotted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u327	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u328	...the call of the Galician administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u329	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u330	...to responsible use of water.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u331	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u332	Well, as I said before, the Government has been working from the very first moment precisely to shorten this situation -- a situation that is absolutely worrying about the weather situation in which we find ourselves. I have to point out that today's most immediate measure is that of saving. There is no better measure on the part of all the Greeks than to save, than to reduce water consumption as far as possible. However, the Government of Galicia, in loyal collaboration with all the municipalities, is working with each of them, especially those who are now in a state of alert, precisely to advance the three axes that we consider most important: the first of all, in the necessary awareness of citizenship, that we have to assume that water is well finite and therefore their saving is priority; in coordination with the administrations that now have the competence, which are the councils, and also in coordination with the central government, through the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, to acquire a more proactive position; and even in preparation — which is what we are working today — in the face of a hypothetical situation — not disposable, but at the moment not existing — of emergency, which, indeed, we have to assess. And, for that reason, in the Council of Joina I part the last Thursday of what we are doing, which is to continue concrete and work in the actions that we have to carry out in case of an emergency from local administrations; that is to say, in particular the actions of the Dry Plan; that is, in particular the actions of the drought plan; in demand — as we have already already been demanded today — in writing to all municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants who comply with the law, who make that drought emergency drought emergency plan and send it to those who have competence and authority in the Union, which is the Sea of Galicia Waters of Galicia; we will also assist the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants today, who, in writing to all municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants today, who do not have the obligation, so that they need to know and recognize the infrastructures they may need, and they need, infrastructures that we are already working from the Sea waters of Galicia to work in order to provide information to the municipalities of less than 20,000 towns of 20,000 of 20,000, we will also help them; in demand; we will therefore, we will also, we will also, we will also do so ask — in demand — and demand — in writing, in writing all, in writing, in writing to ensure that they ensure that they ensure that they ensure that they ensure that they ensure that they ensure that they ensure that they ensure that they are able, they are able, they are able, they are able, they are able, they are able, they are able, in terms of their water supply, and manages that they are able, that they are able, that they are able, that they are able, that they are able, that they are able to have the powerss, that they are able, and manages that they have the powers to have the powerss that they have the infrastructures that they have the powerss that they have the powerss that they have the powers that they have the powers that they have the powers that they have the powers that they have the powers that they have the powers that they have competences, that they have competences, and their powers in the powers in the powers that they have the powers in the powers in the infrastructures in the powers that they have competences in the powers in the powers in the powers that they have the powers that they have competences in the infrastructures in the infrastructures in the infrastructures, that they have And, of course, we will also continue to update the Water Plan, with identification and priorityization of the infrastructures that are going to respond in the future; that is, strategic infrastructures. We can't forget that this is a good thing, as I said before, finite and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u333	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u334	...which, therefore, is the responsibility of everyone to keep it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u336	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u337	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the performance that will take place in Cunta de Galicia in relation to the area of Tinería, Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u338	You have the word Mrs. Olalla Rodil of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u339	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. First of all, allow me to greet the people who accompany us today at the guest banquet. There are representatives of the neighbourhood association in the area of Tinería, Lugo, and also of the municipal group of BNG in this city. Welcome and welcome. Counsellor, the Board of Gaulza developed during the two-party government an important rehabilitation and re-room project in the Tinería district; a space located in the heart of the city's historic helmet with immense potential for its development, because, in addition, it is found vertebrate by three declared property of humanity: the wall, the primitive way and the cathedral. The project, which had an investment of 31 million euros between 2005 and 2010, was aimed at recovering and rehabilitating the neighbourhood, so it was awarded in 2008 by the United Nations in the framework of the Best Practice and Local Leadership Programme, in the historical helmet rehabilitation section. But since 2009, with the People's Party already back in the Government of Galicia and with the economic crisis as an alibi, the investments of the Union have become virtually paralyzed. The neighborhood was once again abandoned and the Tinería project in a drawer at the Housing Council. Today there are 26 buildings pending rehabilitation and 10 in a state of ruin. In the last month, and through the Vice-President in Lugo, Mr Balsairo — who has been in this House until recently — we know that the intention of the Galician Union is to get rid of 11 places, fundamentally low; places that have been recovered with public funds in order to contribute to social and economic dynamisation of Tinería. In the face of the critique of neighbouring and BNG itself for the harmful consequences that the sale of these places could bear after the meeting of the Bureau around the neighborhood, the Town Hall of Lugo showed its interest in acquiring properties — 11 places — to ensure that its sale does not end up turning them into mere warehouses. Taking those statements, since the BNG we have moved an agreement at Lugo's last municipal plenary so that it would be effective — and in addition, it has relied on the unanimous support of the Municipal Corporation, also with the People's Party — that proposal to transfer the property of the premises to the Town Hall of Lugo. Since the BNG we have made it clear that Tinería has to be a central axis of social, economic and cultural dynamization in the city of Lugo and that it cannot abandon the board of Galicia neither the project nor the neighborhood itself. So we ask you, counselor, what are you going to do since Galician Union with the area of Tinería, with these 11 places and the other units of action that remain pending, in which, among others, are important archaeological deposits, Roman remains and the palace of Dom Urraca, which is a medieval building of important historical and architectural value?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u341	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil. First of all, of course, I also want to greet the neighbors of the Tinería. In any case, Mrs. Rodil, rehabilitation is one of the lines of action of this Greek government in terms of housing and housing policy, and also bet on preserving and protecting the architectural heritage built from the cities and our villages. Among the different lines of action is to acquire and rehabilitate immovables in historical helmets for social housing. And that's exactly what we're doing in Lugo, in particular, in the Tinería neighborhood. In any case, Mrs. Rodil, I think you are very young — sorry — [[Murmurs.]] The rehabilitation activities in Tinería began in 2001, and began to acquire real estate. The Bipartite what he did was to get up into the car from which he was already running. Thus, in 2001 the Bipartite inherited 51 acquired real estate, projects already drafted, with 43 houses and 36 houses of licit works, with the licence processed and granted. Therefore, it is not true that it was the Bipartite who had, of course, promoted the rehabilitation of the Tinerary neighborhood, it was the former Government of the Union who began the recovery process. And, Mrs. Rodil, today it is EUR 25 million for rehabilitation in the Tinerary district. Currently, 36 fully renovated buildings, with 87 houses and 23 locations. This year 2017 we are dealing with a €1.2 million tendering process. In 2018 we will start new urbanisation execution works in the UI8 action, with more than two million euros. And we're still working, of course, on the impulse of the rehabilitation of four more buildings, in Tinería 15. We've just acquitted the sawmill 15 700,000 euros to run 5 homes to a place. And so what I can tell you is that the Galician Union is the only administration that is actually investing in the recovery of the Youth Quarter. The Town Hall of Lugo neither invests, of course, nor fulfills its obligations. He wants to look like it by offering to buy certain shopping venues, but over these many years he hasn't taken a single step to boost this neighborhood. The main problems of the Town Hall of Lugo? Well, licenses. It takes more than a year to grant the licenses. He thinks he's joking, but it's very important. To do the works, to start them, we have to have licenses, and that shows a lack of interest. But it's not the only trap. The Town Hall of Lugo is the only one in the large cities of Galicia that rejected the aid of integral rehabilitation areas of the ARI. So the neighborhoods of the old helmet, including those of the Tinería, lost these rehabilitation aids. On the premises, we're waiting for the Lugo Town Hall to take its stand for the proposal you made. Let's give him 15 days to speak. In any case, it's a pity they'd refused, of course, those help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u343	...to rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u344	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u345	Yes, thank you, President. I'm very young, Counselor, but I wasn't born yesterday, and I can read and inform myself. [[Applause]] And I don't want to stir up in the past, but you know perfectly well that the restorative and rehabilitation project has been redefined, pushed and started to develop when the Galician Nationalist Block was in government. But I've already said that what matters to us is what's going to happen from now on with that neighborhood. You give figures and figures, but what we know is that from the floors -- Mr. Castineira, I'm holding a little in the chair -- from those buildings that are today in the hands of the Galician Union, which are already owned by the Galician Union, there are 26 still pending rehabilitation, and there are 10, as I told you, they're in a state of ruin. [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] Most of those floors that you have already rehabilitated about 40%, which has been announced to be granted, are still empty today. And the people we live and work in Lugo, who also like to walk through the area of Tinería, despite the social situation in which we have been living for a few years of clear and absolute abandonment, what we are is absolutely aware that since 2009 Galician Union has not moved — as you said before — a role to continue to sink and advance in that re-room and rehabilitation project. Would anyone in this House — and you too, Counselor — really imagine that there was a wildling and a palace about to come down by Santiago de Compostela's cathedral? Would it be acceptable, assumable, for a government that had a building in the state where those around Lugo's wall were found? For that is what we have next to the wall, which is World Heritage. I insist that for us this is a central issue, which also has immense potential to be the dynamizer, social, economic and cultural engine of the city. And I insist: what's going to happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u347	...with those 11 locations and the other performance units?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close this question, Madam Infrastructure and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u349	Mrs Rodil, the deputy behind me, Martín Fernández Prado, director general of Urbanism and also vice president of Xestur, has expropriated 40 homes in the Tinería. So I insist again. Don't say things that aren't true. In 2001, the rehabilitation of the Tinería district began. Don't come and say things that aren't. We invested, in the area of Tinería, 25 million euros, 36 buildings, and we continued to recover from the area of Tinería and with the advances. On November 24, we just remedied the rehabilitation, as I said, of the 15th in the Tinería. And how we move the papers, because this Thursday, tomorrow, we will bid for the rehabilitation of 3 new buildings: Tinería 30, Recanto do Mine 17 and Recanto do Mine 11 and 13. I would like to thank the Lugo Council for giving us the license, but nothing to be able to do the works when we've been assisted. Meanwhile, as we move the papers, we keep going. In the UI-8 area we've made progress too; we're recasting the project to build 11 housings. We hope to bid these construction works and also urbanization throughout 2018. We'll boost four buildings also this year 2018. So, we're talking about that in total, adding up, the already rehabilitated housing is 107 in the area of Tinería and that they will be at the disposal of the citizens of Lugo. We're still working, and the next goal, of course, is to continue the acquisition of new properties in the area of Tinería. We'll soon take a contest to acquire real estate in the Tinería district, specifically EUR 500,000 to acquire new real estate there to rehabilitate and to make public promotion housing available; new acquisitions with which, together with rehabilitation, we're talking about 500,000, plus 1.6 to rehabilitate, because 2 million euros more than we'll add to the rehabilitation of the Tinería neighbourhood. The Town Hall of Lugo? Well, the Town Hall of Lugo is going to mess up and put a trap -- that's what I can tell you, because it's true -- in the licenses, in the delays, it doesn't ask for rehabilitation aid -- so what I can tell you is that the Town Hall of Lugo in the Tinería is three flashlights he's been working on, and we don't know anything else. Minimum urban infrastructure... well, there's a small case — I believe — at the Fountain of the Mine Door. They announced a municipal intervention, but the truth is, according to the subsidiary execution, it is intended that the Union now give it a free time for some sites in the Tinería. The 2007 decree is clear, the ordinary adjudication procedure is public. In any case, we've stopped at public station for a 15-day period to give the Town Hall of Lugo an opportunity to speak to, to clarify if you want to buy, if you want to rent. So, we wait for you to answer this letter that we officially send to you -- you've got fifteen days -- and we're also waiting for the Lugo Council's response to the locals you were asking for. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u350	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union in relation to the implementation of the programme Reconduces as an instrument for preventing and addressing the situations of people and families at grave risk of death.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u351	Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u352	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I don't know if you remember that promise from the Tides during the 2015 municipal election campaign that in the first 100 days of municipal government they would reach cities free of defiance. You probably remember that, especially because after more than a year of government cities like La Coruña, for example, they remain in a situation similar to that before 2015. They used, from our point of view, the rejections during the election campaign with a very clear objective: the electoral goal of voting. And, on the other hand, the Galician Union did what it did was to act decisively with the problem of the evictions in Galicia and put measures in place to help the victims. On the other hand, there are municipalities that do not follow the empty housing plan of the Union, but do not offer alternatives either. Well, yes, there's a municipality offering an alternative, which is that the neighbors go from "okupas" to a house without paying a rent or without being the owners of the house. There are municipalities that do not sign and do not enter this housing plan, such as the Vigo Town Hall, the Ferrol Town Hall or the Town Hall of Coruña -- it must be that now they have no problems with the evictions -- and there are others who have signed the agreement, but who have left it in a drawer, like the mayor of the Santiago Town Hall of Compostela. The Infrastructure Adviser has just explained this twelve-measure package that the Galician Board has put in place to help people in situations or at risk of death: the Galician Housing Act, the Retirement Program, the Agreement with the General Council of the Judiciary, the Union and the Fegamp, the Agreement with the Sareb, the Agreement with the Financial Institutions, the Rental Bonus or the Empty Housing Program. But today we want to focus on a program that manages its council, which is the Reconduce program, which was launched in 2013, in which five departments, five advisors, and also the Fegamp, the Official Council for Social Work of Galicia, the General Council of the Judiciary and the financial institutions collaborate. And why do we want to know this today? Because it's been four years since its inception, and we'd like you to make an assessment of the effectiveness of this program today since Junta set it up. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u354	Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of the programme reconduces, since its inception, it is for the Council of Positive Social Policy; positive for three fundamental issues that must be present in the various social programmes of the Government of Galicia. First of all, because, according to its nature as a programme of community-specific supra-municipal social services, this programme contributes precisely to unburdening the high workload of municipal-owned social services, especially some municipal-owned services that have important delays in handling their competency records, and cases of defiance, which have overcome their technical capabilities in different cities. Secondly, because this programme has set up autonomous administration as a unique interlocutor recognised by financial institutions, and so the Government of Galicia has signed agreements of collaboration with the different financial entities just to know in advance the cases in which it could actually produce a mortgage execution of the habitual housing. It is necessary to act with caution, to anticipate the problem, to be able to solve it; otherwise, the only thing we would be doing would be to be accompanying families in a tragic case who are in a refugee situation. And thirdly, the Reconduce programme manages to articulate an integrated framework for the coordination of services. Coordination is essential if we want to talk about serious social programmes. This programme, as you know, allows information and guidance to the target people, legal and economic advice — including mediation actions with financial entities — and specific social care, seeking to intervene on the factors of social vulnerability, psychological support, employment orientation and support in the search for an alternative housing in the interesting programs that the Council of Housing has in Galicia through the Council of Housing, about which the Councillor of Living has just spoken. They cared for 500 families and exceeded the 200 brokerage files, and almost all of them were very positive. That's why the Government of Galicia not only considers its functioning positive, but has decided to extend the object of intervention to a new modality with which we are now finding ourselves, which is the lack of payment of income...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u355	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u356	...of rent, and expand it to all the cities of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u357	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Fifty families, Counselor. Well, it's worth working to fight the defiances in our community, what happens is that there's been no initiative in this Parliament on the part of the opposition in relation to the defiances, something that gives us... an interpellation... we're talking about today's interpellation, but it turns out, for example, that the Group of En Marea has brought to this Parliament the only non-law proposal in commission in November 2016 and a motion in December 2016, and no initiative has been brought again to propose absolutely nothing, no action to combat the defiances. [[Murmurs.]] What happened in Galicia so the opposition groups were so concerned about the situation of the victims of the evictions and simply by sitting on the mayor's chair they stopped being concerned about the neighbors who are at risk of death? [[An honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] They've stopped being worried. [[Applause]] And, Counsellor, the Council of Galicia has been there for the first time, fighting against the evictions, helping the victims of the evictions, not only in the previous legislation, but also in this legislation that continues to advance. Because, of course, we are not going to use it politically is the problem of defeats and their victims. But if I want to denounce and raise my voice today saying that to some parties that rule in big cities today it seems that they don't care anymore; of course, we do, and we will continue to work for them. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u359	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u360	Look, the Government of Galicia, honourable Member, will continue to work to defend the rights of the most vulnerable. I think this programme reconduces, with the expansion that we have just done in September, it is a sample that we want public and quality social services; public, and I would also like to highlight it because the seven offices we have in the seven major cities of Galicia, the only comprehensive offices to combat evictions in Galicia, are formed by public employees, by new public employees, specifically, by 16 public employees, licensed in Right, licensed in Economics and licensed in Social Work. I think this is to weave, precisely, a public network, a very specialized public network. I mean, these seven offices are unique in the context of Spain; therefore, they are very specialized and work in coordination, precisely with the municipalities. Our vocation is precisely that, working in coordination with the municipalities, working in coordination with the entities. All people in Galicia who are aware of such a situation have these offices of this program. They are now being expanded, because we value them positively, because we know that the reality of evictions is a reality that is essentially in the metropolitan areas. That's why we have seven offices in all the cities of Galicia, in the tops of these metropolitan areas, and that's why we're expanding it, just like we're expanding it to the staff that works in them, their object also to cases of rental default. So I think we guarantee good attention, that we guarantee good service, that good intermediation with entities, and that's how we're able to avoid cases of rejection. In fact, we have some exclusion risk data that are on the table, and what the Government of Galicia has to do is respond to each and every case, as we are solving up to this point. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-05-DSPG052.u361	Thank you, Counselor. Before you finish your session, you'd like to ask them. And I understand that here we have spent many hours, that this is tedious and that sometimes interruptions occur, and within those interruptions and exchanges, there may be some word, some sentence, which may be offensive to some Member. That was the case today in the afternoon. And what I ask of you is — I have spoken to the honourable Member — that this sentence be withdrawn, but I am also pleased that the appropriate apology has already been made, because I have been watching them. Therefore, with your permission, Mr. Losada, I will withdraw that expression. If you'll excuse me, I'll remove that expression. I'm not going to repeat what it is, but since this presidency I've heard it and, therefore, with your permission, you're going to withdraw and I'm asking that this never happen again. Thank you. Ends the session here.
