ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia number 192, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified the non-attendance of this plenary by Mrs Eva Solla. We therefore enter the agenda. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u2	Yes, Mr President, on the basis of Article 73.1, if you consider it. As we all know, Parliament must or should be the centre of political life, and the Statute of autonomy which is currently in force in our country states that the main or main obligations of the President of the Galician Union are precisely to respond politically to this Parliament. Today and yesterday, and on Saturday and Sunday itself, we experienced an exceptional situation in our country, with hundreds of people besieged by fire, with thousands of people evacuated and our land threatened by fires, which even caused four fatalities — I want to take advantage of here to convey all our solidarity to these people — and we think... I really want to justify... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u3	I'm sorry. Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u4	...because we're asking for a change in the agenda. I think it's a matter that's serious enough to let the opposition talk to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u5	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u6	I don't know why you're bothering them, really.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u8	If we can't talk in a Parliament, the truth is we'd better shut democracy down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u9	Mrs. Pontón, I understand that what you are going to propose is a change in the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u10	Yes, but I wish I could explain why, because it's not a whim. And I believe that both Members, before voting on this amendment, and citizens who may be following this debate, have the right to know why we are calling for this change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u11	Well, briefly, please. We'll grant that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u12	Well, we, as we say, believe that there is a situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u13	I'll drive. I think you're clear too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, let go, I'm talking to Mrs. Pontón now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, whenever you like, makes a change in the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u14	Well, we think that in the face of this situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u16	...by responsibility to citizens, by fulfilment of the Statute and by political responsibility, today's session should come to the Chair of the Galician Union to explain everything that has happened during these days.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u18	Because we think that political debate is fundamental to analyzing the responsibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u20	...to know if things have been done right or wrong. And who has to respond politically as the main authority in this country is the President of the Union himself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u22	We therefore request that item 2 be included as the first attendance at this plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u24	For Parliament to know that this request is made by the three groups on this side of the House. And, in agreement with the argument made by Mrs Pontón, we also believe that the President of the Board should appear today, changing the agenda, so that we could have a debate on this issue, the forest fires that devastated the country this weekend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u25	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u26	He was coming, president. This request was indeed made by the three parliamentary groups. In Marea we consider that the national emergency situation that our country has experienced this past weekend justifies that the House of Commons, which is the headquarters where the national sovereignty of our country resides, is the place where the Council of Galicia, with its president in front, gives explanations. It is not acceptable for us to understand ourselves solely by means of the media, by institutional statements, by statements made by the president to the press, outside the House of Parliamentary Representation. This is the place where we have to explain, and this is what Greek citizenship demands right now. We therefore understand that it is more than justifiable, and all citizenship will understand it perfectly, within and above all outside this House, that today the President of the Board will explain here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u28	...which is what happened and what is happening in our country. For that reason, we call for a change in the agenda to request the presence of the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u29	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. As all Members know, the change in the agenda depends on the majority, and most parliamentarians, in this case the People's Group, believe that the best guarantee of debate, especially for the opposition, is that the majority is not used to change the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] However, we understand that the situation is exceptional, it is extraordinary, and that the House must pick up a debate about what is happening, because the problem of fires has not happened; even today many people are working and playing their lives to fight the fires in Ourense province. And, therefore, we understand that it would be exceptionally convenient for this House to explain what the state of the situation is and what the operation is still operating in the fight against fires that plague much of our territory. Finally, Mr President, by welcoming myself to Rule 73, I would like to replace the expected appearance this afternoon of the Environment Adviser with a request for the introduction of the Rural Environment Adviser to discuss the situation of the fires in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u31	Thank you, Mr. Puy. We must then proceed to two votes. Firstly, we begin by voting on the request of the three groups, in which they request the presence of the President of the Union. We voted for this request. Voting on the proposal to amend the agenda of the plenary session by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, of the Socialists of Galicia and of En Marea, which calls for the presence of the President of the Galician Union in the face of the serious forest fires that have struck Galicia these days. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal for a modification of the agenda is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u32	We are now voting on the proposal made by the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group, which consists of the inclusion of the country councillor in which he corresponded to the territorial ordination councillor, who, if approved, would be logically postponed for another session. We voted for this request. Voting on the proposal for a change to the agenda of the plenary meeting, made by the G.P. Galician people, including the presence of the Middle Rural Counsellor instead of the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 30. The voting is positive. This amendment of the agenda is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u33	Therefore, the presence of the Middle Rural Counselor will be substantial in the afternoon hours. And we continue with the agenda: legislative texts. Debate on the proposal for a law, popular legislative initiative, parental co-responsibility and family relations in the cessation of coexistence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u34	For the presentation of this bill you have the floor to defend Mr. Lois Manuel Toirán Vázquez, to whom I ask you to approach the rostrum, which will be accompanied by the first Vice-President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u35	Love: "Love flourishes from within, in the first person, and grows like a young little brother, who boasts of people's faces and hands. Love makes the smile wide, like a giant pier where ships loaded with joys are plundered, and surrounded by flowers, birds, clouds of cotton and sunsets of sugar. Love turns the chest into a square where the greetings, the tights and the gifts, where the children who inhabit Sundays fit and eat chocolate and kidney out of the shadows." Ana María Fernández. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. That's why many men and women work to be here today. We are parents, we are mothers, we are brothers, we are sisters, grandparents, uncles and aunts, people who one day, when a couple separated, we saw as children and girls were separated from half the people who wanted them, half the people who took responsibility and felt the love needed to participate in their childhood and care. The data on separations and divorces are well eloquent and clarifying a social reality that, despite the strong effect of the crisis, has an increasing, common state level as well. Five thousand and five hundred couples separated or divorced in Galicia in 2006; of them, two thousand and six hundred had children. If we count and consider both children and children as well as their parents, mothers, grandparents, brothers and sisters of different couples, cousins, uncles and other family members, it turns out that many hundreds of thousands of people have been directly affected in the last two decades. It's data that makes us see the enormous transcendence that about little German children and children are having separations. Last year, only 17.4% of these families' children and their families could still count on their parents, their mothers and extended families. In the United Kingdom, one third of separated children and children were estimated to have lost their contact with a non-custodial person sooner or later. They signaled that socially that was not an assumption. It's not about defending parents' rights about children, it's about sublining the interest of children in maintaining close ties with their two parents. So that family ties and trust between parents and children are maintained, it always takes the frequency and regularity of contacts. And for that, we understand — with the exception of abnormal situations of abuse, neglect or ill-treatment — that parental co-responsibility allows in the interests of the child to preserve family ties between parents and children. Flan girl: "Grandfather died when I was nine years old, it's too bad he didn't leave me in days. I missed his affection, I missed his stories, and I even missed his wrong fist box to make him hide it. It seemed strange that there was no one who made fun of me saying to me, "It's a long time for you to have ants in your belly." I still remember how happy she was the day I told her that she wanted to be a journalist. Grandfather was famous among the neighbors for predicting time and understanding the mysteries of the moon, of the seed, of the birth of puppies; for everyone, he was planning an appropriate response. The house has never been the same again." We are in a society where the role of family members and even the format of the family is changing, where the roles of men and women are similar, assuming functions rather than exclusive of them. But this natural change of society has to be accompanied and empowered by public powers, with different and multiple tools, one of them to legislation; two functions can be given to these laws: that of regulating a social reality and favoring that change. We can see it perfectly if we compare ourselves to the Basque Country. In 2009, the percentages of separated families with parental responsibility were identical, 6.8% of the total. In 2016, last year, in the Basque Country, after the approval of its law, also through a popular legislative initiative, it has reached 34.2%, just twice as much. The separated Greek families are now far from the Aragoneses, the Navarres, the Catalans or even the Valencians, which range from 34% to 42%. These are the percentages that make the level of state-level co-responsibility rise in a remarkable way. A more inclusive and egalitarian legislation empowers its evolution; thus, we have Catalonia, with its own legislation since 2010, with its 42% of families with co-responsibility. Many and many of us, in multiple public events held throughout the country, have insisted that this issue is something that interests all people alike, of all kinds of ideas, that should not be seen as a topic of this or that party, but as a topic of all society. And, in fact, we can see that they have contributed to favouring it groups across the parliamentary circle. Thus, in Valencia it has done with the People's and Compromise Party; in Catalonia, PP, Convergence, Republican Left, ICV — where it was integrated United Left— and the Catalan PSOE as a promoter; in Aragon, with the Aragonese Party as a promoter, the socialist, the popular and the Aragonesesist Chunta; in Navarra, with the proposed law of the United Left, which then approve UPN and the socialists; and in the Basque Country, with the PP and the PNV with the collaboration of the PSOE. They all had very clear what was the way forward. The Supreme Court is also very clear about the judgments that try to mitigate the lack of a more egalitarian state law. But it wasn't just the state. In Europe countries such as Sweden or recently the Czech Republic have legislated, as France has already done in 2003, and also unanimously. We also want to highlight Resolution 2079 of 2015 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on equality and parental co-responsibility, in which Member States are urged to overcome prejudice in the division of roles, to include in their legislative legislation for the promotion of co-parentship and the empowerment of mediation. Now, textually, for a parent and a child, the ability to be together is an essential part of family life. The separation of the child from his parent has irremediable effects on his relationship. Such separation should only be requested by a court and only under exceptional circumstances which involve serious risks to the child's or the child's interests." Furthermore, the assembly firmly believes that the development of shared parental responsibility helps to overcome gender stereotypes about the roles of women and men within the family sphere, and constitutes simply a reflection of the sociological changes that have taken place in the past 50 years. Specifically, in section 5.5, he asked to introduce into his legislation the principle of alternative custody of children after a separation, while limiting exceptions to cases of abuse and neglect, and adjusting residence time according to the needs and interests of children. This resolution had 46 votes, 2 abstentions and none against. But it's just that, in addition, in the rest of the world, all the new legislations are going along in this direction as well. We emphasize, within the Americas, the legislation on shared custody of Brazil, which was approved unanimously as well. In the work carried out at this time we also contact the Greek municipalities to request support for a regulation of separations towards children. Thirty municipalities, through their full or full signature of their mayor or mayor, have agreed to support the start of the work in the German Parliament to legislate on this regulation. Among the groups they supported are all represented here. When you're young, you don't have to go to work; instead, you can play in the wells until you become shaved. When you're young, you won't have to argue, you'd better be able to pick up lovebirds. When you're young, you'll learn how to catch time with a net, put it in a glass jar in order to escape, and use it only for important things. When you are young, you will build your houses on any corner and you will be so small that you will always fit in them. When you're young, you'll open your mouth to drink the rain. When you're young, you can talk to the crickets, to the whales, to the paddles. When you're young, you'll eat neither spinach nor liver, but you can drink the moon from the pond. When you're young, you won't see the news, it'll be the grandmother who tells you what the world is like. When you're young, the older you want to be small, and that big day, when you're young, we'll be here to take care of you, calm down. Today's proposal is born of 20 years' work. We had as essential methodology listening to a multitude of parents and mothers, specialists, institutions, associations, entities of all kinds, political groups, who had to see one way or another with the care and care of children and children. To expose it here would require a lot of time available, but to indicate that we hear judges and, in particular, those of first instance, of the hearings, the Supreme Court of Justice, associations of the judiciary, previous and current fiscal chief of Galicia and the territorial heads, lawyers, offices of family orientation and Imelga da Junta, psychologists and psychiatrists, including those of the Galician Health Service, pediatricians, mediators, mediation teams, meeting points, teachers and professors at universities, members of the Committee on Civil Rights Galego, the Valedora do Pobo, foundations such as Pre-Scholar in the House, all those that have to do with the educational fields, the groups of the Galician and the state, besides having to count on the collaboration in organizing the events of councils, deputies and various general addresses of the Union of Galicia. The general opinion on the part of specialists was that the current situation had to be overcome by the well-being of children themselves. Our interlocutors have recognized the role of parents in the harmonious development of children, the importance for children to preserve close ties with the two parents, also after separation between them. The beneficial effects on the development of the child of a well-planned and, above all, strictly respected residence, the advantages of family mediation that enables the relationship to disappear and restore dialogue, as well as the responsibility of parents, encouraging them to jointly define the living conditions of their child after separation; the importance of transition situations that must develop in complete tranquility for the child, in order to give him security; the importance of power at all times addressed to professionals for training on the rights and needs of children. Many of them advised us that mediation should play an essential role, and that's why we are very active in the creation of the Interjudicial Mediation Service in Lugo. It was the universities of Vigo and Santiago that developed the most recent study conducted with 467 children and young children and young people in Galicia, called this study "The impact of the rupture of the progenitors in the state of physical health of the children". In it, a study of the possible effects of a separation of children and daughters is shown not to be the breakup of the couple, which has negative effects on the state of health of children and children, but the inadequate management by the parents, as evidenced by scientific literature and our data. Most authors claim that physical, psycho-emotional and behavioral changes are mostly related to inadequate rupture management. Thus, among other factors, the absence of co-parentship raises the risk attributed to divorce and its impact on minors. To reduce these consequences, it is necessary to support families. The role of professionals in direct contact with minors, such as primary care or schools, is very important, because they can design and implement new interventions aimed at protection and prevention. Programs like the ones that exist here in Santiago, "Board break-up, not family break-up," should be scattered across Galicia to create a healthier society. In 2015, two years ago, a study was conducted in Sweden, one of the first European countries with parental co-responsibility, with the support of the Swedish Health and Wellness Council, in which they had a sample of 147,000 minors, where they answered questions about the relationship between parents and children and material resources, where they studied parenthood, if they were to improve their children's health. From the study it was learned that children with equal presence of both parents showed less psychosomatic problems and enjoyed better health than those living with single parent custody. They conclude that, in line with previous studies, co-responsibility is an element of mental and physical health protection compared to single parent custody. And here is a new fundamental aspect: it is necessary to continue in the profound change of mentality, prevention, mediation, access to information, the involvement of all people in the environment, where institutions like this one in which we are today carry out their role. We are training people — adults’ careers — who learn to live equally, self-esteeming them to avoid violence, depression and even suicide, and to face success as a person, as a school and then as a job. It was already seven years ago, in 2010, when Children, Caritas, Pre-schoolers in the Home and but the Galega Association of Separate Parents signed a manifesto, made public, pointing out five points: by defending children and children to be able to count, indeed, on the level of equality with their father and mother and their extended families; by the necessary coordination and initiation of the roads in the same direction as families, policies, programs, educational services, health, social, cultural and sports; by truly free education, with attention to effective diversity; by promoting good treatment, to promote positive training and eradicate all kinds of violence against children; by reconciling working and family life; by policies that put the means that allow children and children who can have basic family care and education. Every child in the world has the right to have four grandparents and four grandmothers, like four suns, to hear a thousand stories by the fire. Every child in the world has the right to play in the four corners and have hundreds of friends and get lost in the streets. Every child in the world has the right to have four dreams and four castles built in the area of their beaches, while counting the waves that have no number. Every child in the world has the right to be a million times happy. On the Lugo campus, at the Teacher's Training School, they have an illustration that covers a whole corridor that conveys a basic idea in education: to educate a child, to educate a child, to take the whole tribe. Thanks to all the parliamentary groups and representatives who gave us exquisite treatment and treated us as equal, thanks to their sensitivity to a social reality that demands tools to move forward. We are at your disposal for any kind of information you need or doubt to clarify for the work that we've come today to ask to start. And we have the best way to go in collaboration with the representatives and representatives of all parliamentary groups, to improve all the text that is proposed here. Thank you a million for your respect and your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u36	Thank you, Mr. Toirán. You may remain on the scene until the end of the debate. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u37	Thanks to Mr. Toirán and also to the people who accompany us on the guest and guest bench today. We wanted to begin our intervention, the first in addition to this plenary session, regretting that they did not want to modify the agenda to incorporate that presence of the president of the Galician Union, precisely at a time when the country is still burning up, among many other places in the province of Lugo and Ourense, one of Galician eco-logical hearts like The Ancares, where the neighborhood repeatedly denounced these days the lack of means to deal with the uncontrolled lamps, which, of course, have already begun on Thursday, and whose consequences are still to be seen when the fire is extinguished. What is needed in this country is to talk about forest policy, land management policy, once and for all, not just environmental terrorism. [[Applause]] And I'm going to focus on the question that we have at this first item on the agenda, in addition to an important issue as a popular legislative initiative. We want, in addition, from the Nationalist Block of Wales to begin by recognizing the work that has been done in the collection of signatures. It is not easy to get enough support to bring a legislative initiative to this House, and that, regardless of the opinion it deserves from us as a parliamentary group and as a political organization the content of the initiative, it is necessary to underline it. Since the BNG we're moving forward that we're not going to support this bill, and we're not going to support it for various reasons that I'm going to explain right away. First, it should be noted that the shared custody is already legal and is regulated in the applicable legislation, in particular in Articles 92.5 and 92.8 of the Civil Code, where it is pointed out that the shared custody is generally legal when there is common agreement between the parents and only on an exceptional basis that some of them request it and with a favourable report from the Prosecutor's Office and that it is duly founded and considered in the interests of the child. In this sense, what we're talking about in this popular legislative initiative is a shared custody imposed. So much so that Article 7.2 of the bill provides that the opposition of one party or even situations of ill-relationship between progenitor persons may not be sufficient obstacle or impediment to prevent it from being granted. From the Galician Nationalist Block, we want to make it clear that we agree and support shared custody, but in terms of what is currently regulated, because what is presented to us on this initiative offers an image of a supposedly equal society, which is not so. To speak, as you gather the text of the popular legislative initiative, and as I have now stated in your exhibition Mr. Toirán, of an alleged equality of rights and obligations between mothers and parents, when he is not socially real at present, is to avoid a part of the debate and a key piece of understanding the society in which we live. In fact, the model that the law proposes — I insist — impose as a salomonic solution the shared custody of children, does not take into account at all the historical and social context in which we find ourselves and even intends to address the custody of children in a uniform way, aside from the real situation that affects many women and many men. We must bear in mind that we still live today, in 2017, in the middle of the 21st century, in a context of discrimination and violence against women by the mere fact of seal; violence which acquires multiple and various forms and which in many cases is neither visible nor reported, in others, nor even regarded as gender violence. A reality in which men, as they reflect the data, have not yet assumed responsibility nor have they been involved in practice enough in care, nor while there is cohabitation in the couple. It serves as an example that the vast majority of requests for day-to-day reduction to develop that caretaker task — in children, yes, but also in dependent adult persons — in most cases, in more than 70%, are still being requested by women; a fact that highlights a dual question: the survival and reproduction of the traditional and absolutely patriarchal role of the caretaker woman and, moreover, the feminization of poverty, because the reduction of the day-to-day in situations of cohabitation falls mostly and preferably on the lowest wage — hers. The co-responsibility, the involvement of both parents in child rearing and the equalization of rights and obligations must be worked and made visible from the beginning rather than the coup d'est judgment. Because, besides, far from helping to safeguard the interests of minors, we would be sinking into conflicts. And this is not only an appreciation of the Galego Nationalist Block, but it is one of the arguments pointed out by the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary in single reports drawn up to the thread of a proposed legal reform — they will remember — in the Spanish Courts in 2013, very similar to the current one. Let's remember, then, what was proposed was to impose shared custody in those cases where neither of the parents asked for it. At the time, the General Council of the Judiciary said: it makes no sense to change the jurisprudential criterion settled through a change that can hardly revert to the interests of children or serve so that parents can best develop the functions inherent in custody. On the contrary, it is more than foreseeable that the joint guard will automatically grant it to intensify the tensions and disputes that can often arise after the breakup of coexistence. Since the BNG we believe that to share custody of children requires a very high degree of cooperation between the progenitor people, for everything about their care, their education and well-being, must be consensual, and that in processes of separation and divorce in which there is no agreement — let us remember that the current legislation, whenever there is agreement between the previous parties and with a general nature of application, shared custody — in which there are tensions and even in which conflicts between the parties are foreseen, as set out in Article 7.2 of this popular legislative initiative, is simply impossible to achieve this degree of cooperation and consensus that needs the interests of the children and the children. To bet on a single solution, imposed judiciously as a salomonic solution, surrounded by the social and historical context in which we live, without prior agreement between the parties or even without request of these, is not the most prudent; and not only is it not the most prudent, it can become feared, because it is supposed to erase from a pen the complexity and diversity of human relations and separation processes, which each is a world. From the BNG we believe that shared custody should therefore be more a possible model when it is thus agreed voluntarily and freely by the people involved — I insist: voluntary and freely — but not as a general norm, because none of the options that can be taken over and minors after separation must be judged the most appropriate or the good and desired that must prevail over others or the refusal that must be fought. So we argue that better co-education and co-responsibility measures are needed, addressed to the population as a whole, throughout our lives; education is also a fundamental part of a society that does not discriminate, which does not impose roles on the basis of gender. This is how responsibilities are equated and how one fights for an equalization in rights as well. And, of course, to ensure mediation, accompaniment and legal and psychological counseling throughout the separation process. For me, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u39	Good morning. Thank you, President. I also want to greet all the guests who are in our gallery. I'd like to begin my intervention by starting with a number of basic and simple questions, which are the following. Today it's no longer necessary to talk about separation or divorce. We have to talk about the breakup of a couple, because every day there are fewer marriages, each day couples live apart on the issue of economic and vital organization and they don't get to the marriage; therefore, we must no longer talk about divorce or separation. And this question goes to the next, which I want to tell you, is that today there are many types of couples; there are also homosexual couples of men and men, women and women who have children, who demand exclusive custody and who ask for shared custody. Which means that the relevant thing is not to talk about father or mother, the relevant thing is to talk about roles that each one fulfills within his partner. A priori, it's practically impossible to say whether shared custody, which is called shared custody, is good or bad for children and children, because there are no serious or scientific studies on shared custody, for either one or the other. We all have personal perceptions, we all have a sister, a friend, a daughter, a cousin who is in this situation, but in this Parliament we cannot legislate for private cases, we have to legislate for the entire population. The fourth question is whether custody is exclusive or shared. The moment he enters the trial is always imposed, unless there is mutual agreement. If there is no agreement between the members of the couple, it will be a judge or judge who makes the decision, imposed by his exclusive criterion, listening to those who have to listen — when he hears them, because he does not listen to everyone. The National Institute of Statistics says that courts are increasingly opting for this regime, whenever couples come to trial for their rupture. We went from 9.7% in 2007 to 24.7% in 2015; they're state data. In Galicia this 20% is down, we're about 20% about the state average. And this has to do with the last question I'm going to tell you, and it's that in Spain -- it's true, as the BNG spokesman said -- there's state regulation, and there's also autonomous regulation. What's the matter? The problem is that the Supreme Court, in 2013, reinterpreted state legislation and decided what its criteria would be, of seven lords, seven Supreme Court magistrates who are not exactly progressive and who would decide what would be the requirements for granting shared custody in Spain. The Supreme Court said that the starting point is not the exception, but it has to be the general rule, where it does not prove to be prejudicial to the daughter or son, because, according to the Supreme Court itself, it is not based — as I say again — on any study or scientific or serious matter, according to the criteria of seven lords of the Supreme Court, the maintenance of joint power is undoubtedly the best solution for them as long as they allow them to continue to interact fairly with their two progenitors. And that's what's being applied. As I said before, there is regulation — also said the BNG spokesman — in the Civil Code, in Article 92, and, if there is agreement, there is a shared custody, whenever there is never a case of ill-treatment. It is prohibited by the Civil Code. And abuse is interpreted in a very broad sense: assault on life, physical integrity, freedom, moral integrity or freedom, and sexual indemnity of one or another or of the children themselves, and even in those cases where there are indications that this is happening. Exceptionally, with a report from the Prosecutor's Office — which no longer has to be in favour, because the Constitutional Court has said so and has declared unconstitutional that it must be in favour or not — that is why it is called the best interest of the child, who will decide a judge or a judge, decides the shared custody, reinterpreted by the Supreme Court since 2013, as I said before. And the requirements of the Supreme Court are: what did the couple do before their breakup?, the wishes of minors, the number of children or daughters, their mutual respect, the required reports, distance between homes and any other criterion — I say the Supreme Court — to allow them to have a proper life for that child or daughter, in a coexistence — literally to the judgment — "which must be more complex than when the parents live, without the mere finding that a custody regime is better suited to the interests of the parents is sufficient to deduce that it is better suited to the interests of the minor, who is the one who is the winner". But then, in 2015, the Supreme Court gave him a turn—and this is mandatory, it's doctrine for the courts—and he trimmed: the shared custody doesn't require an agreement without cracks, it's enough a reasonable and efficient attitude between the couple's members, and that's why it's worth it. I don't want to be bored, but this means one thing: it means that, as I said before, it's the Supreme Court who is legislating and setting the criteria, as seven lords decide, obliging the rest of the courts. And we said that maybe it would be better or more democratic if parliaments decided how to legislate. Because in Spain, as I said before, there's also autonomic legislation. There is a Catalan law, not of a Catalan PSOE, but of the CSP, which is within the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. There's autonomic legislation. The Catalan law was the first, from 2010 onwards, to achieve coherence, guarantees the relationship with the rest of the family, and overcomes this archaic terminology that we continue to use of patriarchal power and that if it is patriarchal, clearly, fatherland power and shared custody. He starts talking about parenthood, parental responsibility and custody. It's also time for us to change that terminology. The debate we have in Parliament today, seven years later, is not exclusive. In Italy we are talking recently in the United Kingdom — of course, in the United Kingdom rejecting compulsory shared custody — in Czechia, Belgium, France. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group today will facilitate the debate, will vote in favour of the popular legislative initiative, because we believe in the debate and we believe that it is necessary to vote in favour of taking into consideration to debate this text deeply, but we must say that this text requires much more precision. It's a manifestly improved text, but we respect the 15,000 firms behind it, which collect the feeling of a very important part of Greek society, and which could be needed if the parliamentary process gave it that opportunity. If it happened, our group would make a multitude of changes, we could even disagree with their convenience, but we think it's necessary, because we're talking about this matter, even if it doesn't look like it, about the German self-government, about the self-government of our community. It doesn't have to be worth state legislation, we can have our own legislation, because we have our own civil right, even if this text is dubiously constitutional to us, and I want to explain why. Since our Law of adoption of 2006 is referred to the Constitutional Court, and we depend on a judgement, if we are told that it is unconstitutional because we have no jurisdiction to legislate about family, because we have no rules on family, if that law is unconstitutional, this may also be. If we consider that the Constitutional Court has varied its approach and broadened out civil rights, through a technical question called organic connection, it could be constitutional, but it may not be. And we've got a lot of doubts. And it also raises many doubts, and it seems unacceptable to us, the drafting of ill-treatment within this popular legislative initiative. The Civil Code is much more precise than the current regulation. We believe that the text, as I said before, is very improved and it is questionable to fit into our own civil right. We know that, in Valencia, the last bill on shared custody was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, considering that they have no own right and that something that did not exist before cannot be developed. We believe that Galicia has enough authority as a country and it has enough legal tradition to give us the opportunity to discuss whether or not we have competence over a text, about a question that is on the street and on which we should open the debate. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group that is our opinion, and we shall vote in favour of this consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning. The first thing we wanted to do is to greet and thank the presence of all the people who accompany us today, of course also acknowledge all the work done to present this popular legislative initiative. Every day, opening the doors of this Parliament to society as a whole is what we aspire to, and popular legislative initiatives are a sample and an example of this, although, of course, much remains to be done. As you know, we ask to speed up all the points of the agenda, especially this one, because, with all the respect that we have for all the work done — as far as I am concerned — for this popular initiative, we also understand that we must not extend the information blackout that was on the Galician Radio and on public television these days too to this House. Today we all keep thinking about what happened these days, and first of all I think that the first thing to do is to thank all the people on Sunday for teaching us a lesson of solidarity and collective resistance. [[Applause]] And, of course, we must also thank all the workers who have faced the fire without sufficient means, working some voluntarily more than twenty-four hours, despite the precarious conditions they are subjected to. Because these days, unfortunately, they were characterized by seeing a missing state and a completely incapable government, but also a self-organized, strong people appeared to save themselves. [[Applause]] Today is not a day to act normally. This whole makes sense only if it is to speak of the current situation, of the support measures that people need at this time and of the policies that prevent a similar situation from repeating in the future and of the political responsibilities that must be debugted. The people also spoke yesterday, and the people must be heard in this Parliament, and the debates we had to be having today — as we have asked from En Marea — would be unique and exclusively about the emergency situation in our country. [[Applause]] The People's Party does not want to listen to the thousands of people who yesterday pointed out in the streets the culprits and the politics behind this tragedy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u42	Quiet. Please be quiet. That's the point, Mrs. Quinteiro. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, sorry, the debate is moderate, and, as I have to moderate it, I think we've been out of the question for a while, and therefore I pray you, Madam, can you go to the question, which is, in this case, and with regard to the guests we have on top, the popular legislative initiative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u43	I will once again express my absolute respect for this popular legislative initiative. If you pass the procedure, you will, of course, count on En Marea's work to talk and discuss this text. I repeat: we ask to speed up the agenda for this particular point, because we have a lot of regard to the work developed by all people by collecting signatures. But respect is also with the thousands of people you had yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u44	Quiet, quiet. That has already been discussed, Mrs Quinteiro, has already been debated, and therefore I beg you to speak of the initiative, which is the one we are debating here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u45	For us, the only thing we need to talk about today is to analyze what happened, and I'm going to re-encide: in the face of the tragedy, in the face of the victims, in the face of the thousands of devastated hectares, it can't be diverted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u46	Well, I have to call it in, Madam. I'll call the matter, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u47	I understand, Mr. President, that I'm calling on the question, but I'm going to go back to the point: the question for us today is clear, the question is that they don't want to listen, because they're trying to make a fake situation of normality, because you could modify the agenda... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u48	No, no, I already told him I had to go to the point. Mrs. Quinteiro, that's already been discussed. Mrs. Quinteiro, don't cause a situation that's unpleasant to everyone. I'd have to call her back, and with a third call to the issue she can't keep talking. I am telling you because this is the norm that exists in Parliament. So I beg you to go to the question, which, in this case, is to talk about the shared custody.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u49	I repeat again: for us today the question is not the shared custody...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u50	Mrs Quinteiro, I call the question for the second time, and I warn you, please, that, if I have to call it back again, you cannot continue to talk about this subject. You'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u51	Okay, but there's one issue that's going to bring you a problem: if you don't let us talk in this Parliament, you'll keep talking about the streets, and, unfortunately, you'll have to listen to the anger of the people who are organized outside, who have been organized in an exemplary manner on Sunday to respond to the disappearance of the state, you've returned to respond with force.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u52	Mrs. Quintore, I'm calling the question and you can't keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u53	They're paying attention to the people who protested...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u54	No, no, Mrs. Quinteiro, your time is up. I'm sorry. [[Applause]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Toirán Vázquez, representative of the promotional committee, and others who accompany us today in the rostrum, and with regard to these people, I am not going to enter the debate this afternoon, because, by way of an exceptional question, the People's Parliamentary Group has supported an application for a modification of the agenda to discuss the fires. I'm sorry that In Marea doesn't want to talk about shared custody and make an excuse in this gallery not to talk about anything we're going to see after they're going to vote, but we, in respect... [[Applause]] It is regrettable that the division of the vote of a group does not respect more than 15,000 people who signed this initiative. The people who accompany us today are part of the Galician society, which is committed to this issue. In any case, we want to show all our solidarity with the families of the people who have died; those yess that deserve all our respect and consideration. I'm going to get into the debate, because that's what really matters right now, even though some people want to blow it up, but 14,468 signatures of Welsh and Welsh call on this House to regulate parental co-responsibility and family relationships in the cessation of coexistence. It's a reality that the family model has changed. Today society is not organized in the traditional model we all know, but there are single-parent families, married couples, unmarried couples, homosexual couples, heterosexual couples. Whatever the family model is, our duty is to guarantee respect for individual freedoms and organizational freedom, and in this context we also have to guarantee the rights of children and children when a separation is produced from their parents and to be able to isolate the problems arising in the relationship of couple, and that they do not affect the right of these children or children to relate to their father or mother, as stipulated in article 9 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. There is a feeling in an important part of society -- and here we speak also, in particular, of the Galician society -- which currently considers that in most cases of marital breakup, when conflicts arise around the guard or custody, the unguarded parent has in practice only a right of visits, and also in relation to the division of the time period that children and daughters have stipulated to be in the company of their father or mother, these should occur on equal rights for men and women, because only on this side, Mrs. Rodil, this would only make overcome the stereotypes of gender that attribute the guardianship, custody and care of the family, unique and exclusively, to women. This would be a way to overcome and break with those roles that assign and assign to the woman alone and exclusively the guardian and care of the family. So we collect this feeling, and we agree to great features of the legislative text that we are debating today, but we also have to be honest and expose two issues that concern us. First of all, we are concerned about a question of constitutionality, which has already warned Mrs Vilan, since the regulation of paternal relations is the responsibility of the State. There are five autonomous communities that regulate it exclusively, such as Valencia, Catalonia, Aragon, Basque Country and Navarre. In the Valencian Community, as you well know, shared custody regulations were annulled by the Constitutional Court in November of last year, and we must not forget that, in order to self-legislate in the matter, a connection is needed with a matter previously regulated in the right especially that entails a change to development, as would Aragon's case, in his compilation of the law, which collected institutions in relation to parental relationships, or the compilation of the civil right especially of Navarra, as well as the Catalan Family Code, or in the Basque Country, following a law of 2003 on couples in fact, which also dealt with matters relating to paternal relations, so that in its 2005 shared custody law they invoke this connection. And despite that, today the law of the Basque Country is also referred to in the Constitutional Court. And although in Galicia we count on the 1963 civil law compilation, which replaces the particularly Greek right in writing before its publication, it does not regulate parental relations with minor children, as neither did the Galician Civil Law Act of 1995, nor the 2006 Victim. Hence, the common civil law applies in this matter. However, within the Higher Commission for the Study and Development of Galician Civil Law, with the aim of reviewing the application of the Vigilant Law in our community and introducing new applications of the Greek law, nine working groups were created, and one of them added to studying the shared custody; this work was suspended because there was a ministerial preliminary draft for their approval in the state that soon did not see the light. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that we have serious constitutional doubts about the inclusion of shared custody in the German civil right, since we only have a connection with the host figure, which Mrs Vilan has already warned about adoption. And the second question we're concerned about is the obligation to opt for shared custody. We believe that the objective of this regulation should be in line with the consensus that exists around which the shared custody is the best solution for the exercise of custody and custody of minors whose parents are separated. We understand that it must be geared towards fulfilling the mandates of the recent jurisprudence that is marking the Supreme Court when it says it is "a measure that will have to be considered normal and even desirable." But we understand that the guard and shared custody should be remembered when a judge considers that the interests of the child — which is what must always prevail — are protected by it. Therefore, it is customary to refer to this solution as a suit to measure, since there are several competing circumstances to decide that this is the most appropriate solution; issues such as the relationships between parents and children, the will of each of them to assume those duties, the possibility of reconciling family and work life, also listening to the wishes and wishes of the child and the dictates of experts, and not forgetting also relevant criteria for the welfare of the child, such as age or social, school and family roots. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, regulating shared custody will also encourage agreement between parents through family mediation in order to reduce litigation, promote parental co-responsibility, leave behind the concept of "visits" and underline the relevance of everyday and frequent contact between parents and their children. Mediation seems fundamental to us, because the parents must be aware of the importance of pacting for the benefit of the child and of avoiding what the promoter said, which is an inadequate management of rupture. Therefore, they must present a kinship plan that collects aspects such as education, health, well-being, times of coexistence and the place or places of residence of the child or daughter. And here I also want to think about this: shared custody doesn't necessarily have to involve an alternative child residence with parents in equal periods. And I would also like to point out that in relation to the allocation of housing, although the best interest of the child prevails, they will also take into account the different needs of the parents and, above all, those of whom have the most difficulty in finding a new housing. Another issue that raises a lot of controversy is economic coming. Shared custody does not imply a situation in which neither of the parents is economical. The regulatory agreement shall include agreements relating to family and food charges, taking into account ordinary and extraordinary needs: periodicity, manner of payment, update and termination. And they will take into account the needs of children and daughters, ordinary, extraordinary and any other, as well as the attribution of family housing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we should not be afraid of a figure that only seeks the best interests of the child, regardless of whether this favors a greater relationship and coexistence with the two parents. It may seem that they are the beneficiaries — who too, but our objective is that the best interests of the child always prevail, without forgetting that we should extreme precautions in line with existing legislation on gender violence and the victim's Statute, excluding in any case parental co-responsibility in the alleged gender and domestic violence. This is also reflected in the State Covenant against Gender Violence, which has just been adopted in Madrid, and we agree with that. So these two questions, ladies and gentlemen, lead us to a path, to the adoption today of this popular legislative initiative, but with a commitment: that before we proceed to its proceedings we at least hear the Higher Commission for the Study and Development of Galician Civil Law, in order to provide us with advice on this point of connection that we need to prevent the Constitutional Court from nullifying the autonomous rule. We would also like to count on expert advice — and the promoter said it here —: judges, prosecutors, family judges... the legal operators who are up-to-date and in practice these issues. The citizen wants us to solve problems, not generate more. Therefore, the norm cannot be used to increase the problem in situations of marital breakup, it has to be used to facilitate these issues. I'm done. I must recall that in the Congress of the People's Party of Spain, within the Social Policy Statement, it agreed to support the shared custody. The People's Party incorporated in this statement that the legal reforms needed to incorporate in the Civil Code shared custody as the most desirable modality in the case of separation or divorce. But in this commitment, the People's Party stresses that the amendments to the Civil Code in this area should have a broad social and political consensus. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that today in this House we can say that both criteria are met. Thanks to the Commission's work as a promoter and hoping that in the future paternal conflicts will be reduced, especially because this will benefit the best interests of the child, that must be the beacon guiding us on this path that we are beginning to transit today. Good way! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Toirán, if you like, you can make a replica. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u57	You can't imagine the deep pain your words caused by the people who are pending today in this House. You can't imagine. I remember especially when we spoke to your companion Jorquera. I was dealing -- I don't know whether it was in Congress or Senate -- a motion to support shared custody -- I mean, I don't know whether it was in the Senate or in Congress, and your two colleagues in Congress voted in favour. And that was your position until last year, until 2016. Please ask with your heart to change that anger, that disregard for us and for the people who have been here today listening to you. It wasn't the attitude of the Block until last year. Look, you've shown an ignorance of the deep reality, a true ignorance of reality. There is no shared custody anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world! All the laws propose and seek that parents and mothers, be like couples, care about their children, and the law has that purpose. I don't know if your model can be Melilla's, the Stremadura's or Murcia's, who practically don't have it. I don't know if that's your model. The High Court has already specified it perfectly, has specified all the arguments I have given before. It was interesting that you could see the justification that they are giving in places that walk towards... such as Switzerland; their arguments, that you read them. Either the arguments they gave in Sweden, or the arguments they gave in Britain or in Brazil. It was interesting that you came up with the arguments and why they wanted to walk towards that end. I don't know if you read them or if you don't read them, but you always put the word "violence" in front of you. What do you mean by that? What do you mean by that? And you can't imagine how much we thank you deeply for how we have been treated since the beginning of this law and how we have been treated by the members of the commission that promotes different political groups. Really, whatever the result is, whether you choose because here comes out a legislation or not, you've already made a path, at least as far as we're concerned. You know that politics lately, better said, politicians, their attitudes, are not very well viewed, but for us — towards the people who suffer from this circumstance and how we see our children and our daughters suffer — you have already begun the path of rehabilitation with society. When you talk about unconstitutionality, it's something that we don't care about. We always think that the technique has to be at the service of society. I mean, if no one in Valencia had filed an unconstitutional remedy, they would still have the law today. It was political trifles, it was nothing else. I don't know if Catalonia, Navarre, Aragon or the Basque Country have more competence than Galicia. I think the technical part, the legal part, with everyone's commitment, doesn't have to be an obstacle, it's never been the one from now on anywhere, unless that kind of policy of which I once complained is what reigns here, which I don't believe; I don't see it that way. In fact, in order to encourage participation and encourage mediation, it's curious how, on the one hand, they tell us one thing... they have to know that from 1 September this year in France there is a pilot project in 13 French cities and it occupies until 31 December 2019. No one can file any demand until it passes through the mediation service; that is, until they are committed to finding a solution. These are measures that are being carried out in the world, which are being carried out elsewhere and which we are very attentive to. The first thing all specialists have told us is that there has to be a meeting, that there has to be a place to reach agreements and, indeed, it is and so we will always be looking for it. Everything we have done — as was indicated here through Paula — contacts with people and specialists, etc., is available to anyone who wants it. But what I'm asking of you is that it's not a long-term processing; that's to say, that it doesn't serve an excuse for you... in a prudential time, of course, to be carried out, at least in this legislation, if you decide what to do. Thank you again very much for your respect, for your sensitivity and for allowing us to be here and be able to work and regulate this, because in this there is a need for regulation; either in one sense, or in another, there must be that regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u58	Thank you, Mr. Toirán. I beg the vice president to accompany you. The vice president has already accompanied you to leave the Chamber. We continue with legislative texts. Full debate of the Galician Ports Law Project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u59	Amendments have been tabled to the entire Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. The sea councillor has the word for the bill's presentation. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I compare today in this House to account for the project of which is the first autonomous law; a text which is called upon to achieve and fulfil three objectives: the first one, to establish a regulatory, organisational and collaborative framework within Galicia's port infrastructure; the second one, to increase the synergies of the ports of Greece in the transport of goods; and the third one, to coordinate competences in port investment, transport and management of the territory. And I come to Galicia today to explain to you the rule that will regulate the management, operation and administration regime of the port system of Galicia; a standard adapted to the real needs of confrries, nautical clubs, operators, investors and entrepreneurs providing port activity; a port system, ours, of economic activity of great importance, which translates into figures. The port Galicia are infrastructures, 122 port facilities of different sizes distributed along the 1,700 square kilometres of the coast that make it up. The harbour Galicia is moving: more than 108,653 tons of fresh fishing, with a value on first sale of around 265 million euros and more than 2 million tons of goods. The harbour Galicia is an economy: more than 15.7 million euros of revenue for port activities and a multiplier effect for the added value generated in ports. The harbour Galicia is an opportunity for our community. More than 60% of the total population of the province of Galicia lies in municipalities with port facilities. The rule we present today will enable Galicia to move forward in a process of constant development of its own port system to the first place at national and international level. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the point we're starting in the matter that we're dealing with is a standard of a state character, a rule that, as yet not specifically adapted to the particulars of management of our autonomous ports, served us to avoid serious difficulties in its administration, but it has been highlighted as not fully adaptable to the management and exploitation of our ports. It was therefore necessary and unapproachable to set up our own regulations, not only to give a more adequate response to these saving and small differences, but also to be better prepared to face the challenges that we are experiencing. For example, the gradual opening of port services to investors in the construction, financing and operation of port infrastructure. In 2014, the Board of Trustees took the first step with the authorization to initiate and process the preliminary draft of this Galician port law. From that moment on, we wanted to bring it forward with the consensus of the port sector, mainly with the confrereries, through their federations, and with the operators of recreational and commercial nautical. This year, in April, the Council authorized its referral to the Economic and Social Council and in August its transfer to Parliament, when we met. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get hands on this. We were heading towards the development of a complex project, but also an exciting consensus; a complex project because the challenge we had before us was of great magnitude. We knew that it required a lot of work, dedication and effort from the Administration, but also from the whole sector. A complex project due to the wide and diverse scope of application it covers. We're talking about regulating activity and all the tasks that develop in the 122 autonomous ports. We are talking about professional activity, recreational nautical activity, commercial activity and the many complementary uses linked to the coast. Not in vain, as your lords already know, Galicia is unlike the autonomous community of Spain that most ports have in the community, where ports have different uses. Other communities, by extending their coastline, could have the same number of ports as Galicia and a diversification of similar uses, but reality is not. For example, 60 ports with the Andalusian Community or approximately 50 ports in the Valencian Community. This is a complex project that has brought about a task of adapting our port singularities to the guidelines on ports and on the process of adapting the provision of services in the European Union. In short, it's a complex project that today sees the light and that makes the investment effort and the work of our administration and more of the port agents, focused on a single common goal: the economic revitalization of Galicia. We're talking about an exciting consensus, an exciting project, because we were able to involve the whole sector and consensualize a text that in its lifetime was being improved by the allegations that public administrations, port and business collectives, trade unions and different associations were contributing. This bill contains entries collected in a series of joint postings on guidelines that should be rejected by the future policy. On this day, he attended over a hundred representatives of the harbour community, the professional, business and commercial sector, as well as recreational nautical. During its proceedings, in the proceedings of the hearing, the text was presented on the website of the Council of the Sea and also discussed at the Galego Fisheries Council, as well as transferred to half a hundred institutions and entities of the Chamber of Commerce, public administrations, professional federations, maritime groups, businesses and trade unions. Upon getting to know the text, allegations were made from 16 entities in most departments of the Administration, but also from harbour and business groups, trade unions and associations. In fact, during the drafting of this text, we informed the State Coast, State Ports, the Territory's Institute of Studies and the Fegamp, as the maximum representative organ of municipal corporations; and we also count on the technical supervision of the Territory's Environment and Planning Council. In short, an exciting project in which all of us should be involved, in which everyone who wanted to collaborate and in which all of those who had to bring something did so; an exciting project because it was and it's for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, today's law introducing the self-government to this House is a real exercise of normative completeness. Galician port law is competitive. We promote and reactivate port economic activity through the progressive opening of port services to business investors. We thus boost economic growth and employment generation in our ports, always maintaining the guarantee of compliance with the public service. We guarantee the legal security necessary for the planning of private capital economic projects, which undoubtedly constitutes an allusion for investment. Galician port law is participation. We seek to speed up administrative processing in concessions in order to provide investors with greater guarantees of present and future in their participation in port business. We have replaced the recruitment regime for port services, such as docking or towing, for example, by administrative licences in general freedom of access to port service providers. Galician port law is stability. We increased in twenty years the period of port concessions until fifty, in line with the Royal Decree of 8 July 2014, of 4 July 2014 of urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency. And we facilitate the depreciation of investments on the part of the private initiative. In the case of building a ship, for example, with this expansion, the time of depreciation would increase, but the amounts to be depreciated would be less severe. Galician port law is transparency. We have recovered the competition process of projects in the procedure for granting public port services, asking for public information and official bodies, which will enable us to make the best of decisions in favour of the general interest. Galician port law is integration. We promote a coordinated and axil port model between the Galician Union and the various municipalities to provide the ports with the necessary planning instruments. We provide infrastructure managers with plans to analyse current port situations, the structure of traffic and port activities and their development needs on a temporary horizon of at least five years. We contemplate the special plans that collect the system of each port and the activities that can be developed there, including the measures and forecasts necessary to ensure efficient exploitation of port space and its connection to the general terrestrial transport systems. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Port Law is also a matter of concern to the surrounding area. We set a time limit for speeding up the process and for manoeuvres for the withdrawal of abandoned vessels and vehicles in the field of public port domain. We promote the coexistence of activities within ports, establishing the compatibility of uses that improve the port-city relationship, allowing for activities related to other administrations or entities in port facilities. Galician port law is efficient. We speeded up the deadlines and facilitated the procedures for submitting applications for temporary authorizations for robbery, in the face of increasing demand for these squares, as well as services for sports facilities. The port law is responsibility. We offer greater security to users, when available in the port facilities of staff with greater public authority, by providing the bodyguards with the condition of agents of the authority to prevent actions that interrupt or hinder the normal functioning of their activities. And we strengthen the powers and powers of the autonomous port administration. Finally, a law that allows us to go one step further in the process of constant evolution of the development of the Welsh port system to place it, as I said, in the first level. We therefore have a proposal for a regulation which seeks to speed up the functioning of the Galician Port Administration, since it adapts to the particularities of the ports of the community; to speed up the procedures of employers in the concessions to give them greater guarantees and to give them a decisive role to entrepreneurship in port activity; to improve the conditions of supply and port facilities; to promote greater competitiveness in the provision of port services; to encourage the participation of the municipalities in the development of port activities and services; to establish the compatibility of uses that improve the port-city relationship; and to ensure the normal functioning of the work of port users through the reinforcement of the figure of port guards and the axillization of transits, such as the withdrawal of abandoned ships. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm doing it talking about satisfaction. Satisfaction with the path taken in the process of drafting this law; a path carried out by the sector and all the agents involved and interested in the successful achievement of this new regulatory framework for the ports of Galicia. Satisfaction by demonstrating that, by betting on a common job, you can achieve a high-quality normative, technical and participatory project that becomes as representative as possible, conjugating all the needs and demands of all the stakeholders involved. Satisfaction because we present as the main support to this House the most important: the desire for coordination and collaboration, which has been materialized in the social and institutional consensus achieved by this Law of ports of Galicia. I also finish by publicizing my thanks to all the staff of the public body for the effort made to unite the harbour interests with the interests of the society to which we have to serve. And it remains to be emphasized that the creation of this necessary legislative framework will enable us to deal with not only the problems of today, but also the problems of tomorrow. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u61	Thank you very much, Counselor. The defence of amendments to the whole is now under way. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u62	Good morning. The imposition of the majority of the People's Party and the non-acceptance of the modification of the agenda so that today the President of the Union was here giving explanations of what is happening, makes us celebrate this plenary with an extreme situation in Galicia. As many hundreds of Greeks and Greeks are living or have just experienced a real nightmare, this Parliament cannot stand apart from that dramatic reality. It's a sad reality and creates a reality of four dead people, of burned houses, of ships, of farms, of docks, of tractors, of vehicles... and that's why from the BNG we want to transfer support to the relatives of the deceased, transfer solidarity to their surroundings, show the recognition and work done by the fire brigades, to men and women who for hours have left the skin and recognition to the hundreds of people, neighbors and neighbors, who have made and continue to make a heroic defense of the country, a struggle against the fire. Today we would have to be here talking about agricultural production, forestry policy, the transformation industry, the closure of Ence, the eradication of the eucalyptus and the cessation of thinking as colonized and colonized, of trusting ourselves, in ourselves, to build the Galicia we want or if we are going to let the country burn indefinitely until nothing remains. That's the... [[Applause]] We should be talking about the causes of the fire and the consequences, we should be talking about, Counselor, the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u63	Mrs. Prado, I ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u64	...consequences that for the sea may have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u65	I'll call the question. I think it's been two minutes and I pee talking about other things. I ask you to meet the question that we are debating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u66	...the consequences for the marine environment, the measures that we should be talking about and discussing so that the ashes and the loose earth don't get to the shores, they don't ruin the marine resources and they don't ruin our environment. That, in a normal country with a normal parliament, was what we had to be talking about today, because there's a state of emergency out there and there's a people who are asking you here, in this Parliament, to echo what's going on out there. [[Applause]] Most absolutes are for these things, and it seems like it's about talking about a port law in which we only agree with your exhibition, Counselor, is that it's really necessary to legislate about something as important to the country as port infrastructures. But you said that this law contemplated three things: establishing a policy framework, increasing synergies and coordinating competences. Of course, from the BNG we believe that nothing of that you said is contemplated in this law, because Galicia has a large number of ports and port facilities — indeed, the highest port density on the Iberian Peninsula, and it is surely the highest in Europe — that make the port sector of Galicia strategically, with great potential. And that since 1981, in which Galicia's Autonomy Statute has been adopted — that is insufficient, insufficient, and not responding to the needs of our country — the People's Party still brings the first law of ports of Galicia because it has already said enough of the importance they have given it. This law regulates the 122 ports in Galicia, with Galicia's competence, but not those of competence of the Spanish State, the so-called general interest, to see the magnitude of the importance of port infrastructures in Galicia; nothing more than contrasting the data of the 26 ports of Catalonia or of the 37 ports of Andalusia. This Galician port bill, after it's been waiting for so many years, we've obviously considered it disappointing and it doesn't respond to the expectations and needs of this strategic sector. In addition, it is detrimental to the future of the port sector in Greece. This Galician port bill is a standard that aims to impose, even more, the philosophy of the market in its management and imposes an urban model on the municipalities. It's a clearly privatizing law of a strategic economic and productive activity for Galicia. It is wrong to say clearly, Counsellor, that public activity would be launched whenever necessary to address the possible shortcomings of the private initiative. This line clearly summarizes the underlying philosophy: the public will activate whenever the private needs it for its development, not to develop strategic infrastructures for the country from a public perspective; not, but simply as a private subsidiary. It does not correct and even accentuates the privatization tensions the sector is facing, and it is clear what is the real priority and ideological and political orientation that underpins this bill, which is privatization and business benefit. The People's Party, once again, to that service of business profit. Two examples of this approach to this law. The first is that it selects from existing legal figures that of a public enterprise entity. The autonomous body could have been selected, so that it would be clear that it was part of a public administration, but no, they chose that of a public enterprise entity. And choosing that figure means following the State Ports Act, which is pure and hard liberalization. The goal is to achieve business results, benefit, freedom to apply autonomous commercial and business policies for the results account of each port, but nothing to do with adjusting to a coordinated port policy at the Greek level. The goal is not the public service, which suits Galicia in an integral way, but the goal is unique and exclusively business and competition. For example, the conflict between the port of Vigo and the port of Marín responds to that strategy, and it is that the ports compete between them to seek the benefit of each port without taking into account for nothing the complementarity or the overall benefit. This has to do with the business dynamics of competition, instead of cooperation, rather than public benefit, rather than specialization and complementarity. Everybody catching up on everything, competing with each other. That's the model that the People's Party brings us here today. And the second example of this fully privatising approach is to extend the concession period from thirty to fifty years. The normal thing would be to apply the precautionary principle, and a 30-year concession seems long enough to be reasonable enough for a concession, which is a privatization of public space, to be able to see and make an assessment of the effects of that concession. But no, the People's Party, in the Spanish State; Mariano Rajoy, through the Royal Decree Law 8/2014, skipping all the legislative processes, and that prerogative which gave him the absolute majority in the previous legislation, for it has passed from 30 to 50 years, and the Greek People's Party follows, as it could otherwise, this path of the People's Party in the State and today they present here this enlargement, an increase in the deadline of the harbour concessions, as if it were extraordinary and urgent need that enlargement. The PP assumes as unquestionable that to manage ports you have to follow business criteria and press state law. What seems to us to be the most serious of this bill, or the most serious things it contains, is that it does not question the distribution of competence; it does not question it, and zero ambition for Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, the Government of Greece, to have the incomes, to decide on the set of port infrastructures in our country. It leaves out the so-called ports of general interest and does not establish any mechanism or foresees that you can demand management, competition over these ports of general interest, question that you already have other communities, that you already have Andalusia, that you already have Catalonia... but the German Government of the People's Party does not want to have jurisdiction over ports called of general interest; a missed opportunity for Galicia to benefit and be able to design its own policy according to its own interests and potentialities. It is paradoxical that in the text the economic and demographic weight in the coastal field is recognized, in the explanatory statement, but then there is no question of the many benefits generated by these ports of general interest. Vigo, Marín, Vilagarcia, La Coruña, Ferrol or San Cibrao are a very profitable business for the Spanish State. The movement of total transit of goods generated in ports of general interest places Galicia at the second post of the Spanish State in the traffic of goods, in fresh fish, in frozen, in afforestation, in general commodities. The distances belonging to these ports, when not transferred to Galicia, continue to depend on the Harbour Authority, which means that the millions of euros that are generated in them — more than 200 million euros — is the state that decides what is done with them, without Galicia having anything to say. And it seems that the People's Party doesn't care for anything to manage that vast amount of resources. Moreover, the 122 port facilities that Galicia has are located in laughs where state-dependent harbour facilities are located, with which there is a very large correlation between them. The normal thing would be to legislate for the whole of Galicia's harbour infrastructures, but it does not want the People's Party to be so, even subordinate, within that field of competence, to prior permits or reports of the so-called Harbour Authority, issues that would be of exclusive competence of Galicia. Of course, the BNG seems to us to say a lot against the Greek Government that it does not see in this first law of ports in Galicia claiming the transfer of these ports to the state. Projected in this law are privatising islands within the municipal terms of the municipalities. It establishes instruments of management and processing not in accordance with the laws envisaged, not only with the recently adopted urban legislation, but also with the management of the territory with species... — what could we call it? — dispensation reserve. This law contains a whole series of dispensation reserves of general regulations in ports that have no justification, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is considered that you can build hostel installations, for example, or high-voltage line installations within the harbour areas. It is very worrisome that it is collected in the preliminary draft or in this bill the extension of up to 30% of the surface of the port, which requires only approval of the Counsellor, without taking into account the municipalities. Leave the door open to fills discreetly with all the environmental problems it generates. From an urban point of view, it is a real waste disposal and unprecedented intrusion of urban planning. It converts port use plans into armoured documents in the face of urban and municipal planning, establishes that port works and facilities run by the Harbour Administration are done away with preventive and municipal control and leaves, in short, the municipalities out of any kind of performance. It only allows them to make non-binding reports; that is, convert privatizing islands into municipal boundaries, within municipal terms, and municipalities can only make non-binding reports. It doesn't solve any of the issues that have many municipalities, such as the development of play, markets, fairs, all kinds of activities with which Galician ports with this law intend to continue cashing, and it doesn't solve anything about these issues at all. In fact, it's a real blockage before the revision or modification of the municipal planning and management instruments. Town Councils are going to just make those non-binding reports. It seems tremendous — and it has already said everything about this law — that, for example, in the sections of the nautical-sport ports is followed by an infinite growth model; that is, they are given much more priority to nautical-sport activity, to sports ports, which, for example, to fishing harbour activity, which has no single exclusive heading, when sports activity has exclusive headings. That's already clear to the public what the intention of this People's Party regulation is. You don't think anything about traditional boats... and you could keep enumerating questions. What is clear is that this port law — the first port law since Galicia has powers to regulate — certainly does not respond to expectations. It's not the law of ports that Galicia needs, that some infrastructure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u68	...strategic, like the port authorities, of course they need. And that's why the Galician Nationalist Bloc tabled an amendment to the whole and we asked for the return of it and a real law of ports is being developed that responds to Galicia's true reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. I call on Mrs Toja Suárez from the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, we look at the sky with relief because it rained, however, as you know, the rain drags ashes, the ashes go to the rivers and the rivers then go to the sea. The fish, the seafood, filters that. Activate Plan Camgal, you know you can activate it, you know you can set anti-contamination barriers. Decree 438/2003 of 13 November has the necessary tools; act on the affected coast. Prevention; they stop improvising and putting concrete measures and we avoid major evils of those who have already suffered. [[Applause]] Today we are here to defend, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the amendment to the entire bill submitted by the PP Group for Ports of Galicia. There are several reasons why we have tabled a whole amendment from our group. We understand that it must be returned, that this project is outdated, it is disappointing, it does not involve actions or planning on the port system of Galicia, it has too many uncertainties or suspicions that are not clarified and, in addition, we do not share the treatment that they make in relation to municipal competences. Why do we say he's out of line? Because it started to form more than three years ago. The legal memory is from July 2014. It's been raining since July 2014! Three years is too long a processing period. So the least they had to do was update reports and external approaches. He draws attention that all suggestions made through the Council website go from October 2014 to October 2015, and since then no suggestions have been received. It's so out of date that the Fegamp considerations to the report are dated November 15, 2014, by Fegamp prior to the last municipal elections of 2015. Thus, it does not contain the necessary update, which is contrary to the objective of its supposed necessity and importance. It's disappointing. It's not exciting for us, it's disappointing, because, by taking the law and seeing the 147 articles, in some way certain expectations are expected and harbored, because they're a lot of articles. But then we see that in port reality, in Galicia's economic reality, it will have a null or very limited public impact. In their own memory, they indicate that they are not the object of the project, they read the port fees, which is a matter of close relation to the services provided. But that is not what the Socialist Parliamentary Group says to them. That is what the Economic and Social Council says, which states that there is only one article, Article 25, which refers to rates and charges, which contrasts with the 147 articles and the extension of other legal texts on the same subject. And the Economic and Social Council itself suggests the inclusion of a fee-related title. If the project does not reflect fundamental issues, such as port rates, it is clear that it is a disappointment, even for the economic and productive sectors of Greece. And it also indicates in its memory that there is no budgetary impact, i.e. that no financial improvement or substantial reform is foreseen that affects the economic and financial regime of ports, which should also constitute a fundamental factor. But it's also disappointing because it doesn't include any investment plans to carry out. Let's get this straight: on the one hand, they say that this law will be a tool of silence for the development of Galicia and, on the other hand, that Ports is very important for long-term investment for the population and territory, but on the other hand, it turns out that it does not set any kind of general planning and does not provide any provision for the realization of investments. And we're going to put data on the table so this can be understood. In 2016, one year ago, the actual investments in Galician ports were 4.2 million euros, about 9.7 credits; over 9.7 investments were 4.2. Which means they left out 56% of the budget, 5.5 million euros. [[Applause]] These are data. In addition, in 2016 there was a 56% drop in respect of the previous year, which contrasts enormously with the memory of the Galician Port Bill, which says the importance of long-term investments, the great importance of the population and its territory. You'll understand, Counselor, why we say it's disappointing. But it is a matter on which Galicia's own board seems to agree, since also in memory it says that no social and environmental impacts are foreseen, when it seems that these should be in good measure in relation to this bill. Counsellor, don't you think you missed a great opportunity with this port bill? It seems disappointing to the Socialist Group, but also to the Economic and Social Council. The bill continues to base the model on a public and business entity. It would be a good time to take stock of whether this instrumental modality for twenty-three years has been the most beneficial and what were the results after this long time passed. Ports of Galicia, as you know, obtains its fundamental economic resources through rates and subsidies from the Autonomous Community, which does not justify the unquestionable relationship with the business management criteria, nor much less with financial self-sufficiency, after twenty-three years of operation, which must characterize an entity that is defined as a business. But this has another drawback, an important drawback: that, by not being part of the budgetary structure of the General Administration of Galicia, information is much smaller, parliamentary control is much more complicated. And let us once again set an example to understand the importance of parliamentary control. According to the accounts made public by this entity, the volume of work contracted in 2016 was EUR 8.8 million, but only 2.1 corresponded to works auctioned through competitions, and 4.7 million were smaller contracts. It's too high. [[Applause]] There is a preference for this type of recruitment, which must hardly be justified in such high use, which has to do with the need to provide these issues with a transparency of management that they currently lack. And in case they're going to answer that it's about emergency works, don't bother, don't do it, because we already told them that emergency works were only EUR 625,000 in 2016. So we have to add less transparency — not more transparency, as you said — to be less transparency than, in addition, already characterizes the ports of Galicia. Why did you ever enter the Galician Ports website? Because, by entering that website, you can see the lack of transparency in your actions. Therefore, a problematic organizational model and, in addition, incomplete, when income is fundamentally public, that wishes, as we said, the proliferation of harbour chiringuits that would already allow the creation of an indeterminate number of public port companies. This law, moreover, does not clarify the concessionary issue and reflects a free trade position in concessions to private companies: 50 years of concession against European legislation, which speaks of the fact that those who last more than five years will have to be fixed on the basis of the recovery of investment. Look where Europe goes and look where you're going: 50 years. And we're also going to put data on the table so they can understand this. The ports of Galicia, for their accounting amortizations, consider: for the metal-armed concrete docks, thirty years; for the wooden docks, ten years; for machinery, less than twenty-five years. Fifty years is what they put into the investment bill. It's not justifiable, it's a free bar for the administrative concessions of companies. As for port planning, it seems logical and necessary to define, first, a global plan of what, in any case, would then derive specific plans for each specific port. But no, in this proposal they opt for specific infrastructure plans for each port, but not for the development of a general master plan for the whole of the port system in Galicia. Once again, I tell you not only the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but I tell you that the Economic and Social Council, which misses the text a comprehensive strategic plan for the entire port system of Galicia of autonomous competition, with general guidelines, with objectives to be achieved and which contributes coherence and unity to the system through a multi-year strategic document. The Economic and Social Council recommends some coherence because it needs to know what happens when there are specific plans for ports and there is no global plan: that in this way some ports count and others, in the words of the port president himself, are simply "not priority". By the way, a Portuguese president who granted the character of legitimate citizen representatives to members of an elite nautical entity who refused to receive the mayor of that town, as happened in Grove. And if we add to this order of subjective priorities that the draft law itself ignores and does not mention for nothing the Galician Parliament, and that it also does not establish any kind of monitoring and control mechanism for the management and infrastructure plans, which should not be taken into account of the degree of compliance with those plans or which should be exercised control, because it is one step back, which takes us so far behind 87, in which Law 6/1987 of the Galician Special Plan of Ports, established that the plan was set in years, and that the corresponding parliamentary commission was revised and reported, another more transparency failure of the Galician ports. Last but not least, I'd like to talk about what this law means for the municipalities, because it leaves local administrations in a very, very worrying background. It imposes peculiar, problematic urban considerations and, above all, uncontroversial. It does not contemplate the necessary coordination and participation of the municipalities, and could even violate the principle of local autonomy, as it imposes procedures outside the general rules and even eliminates certain works licenses. By setting examples — although I already tell you that this law is entirely at the expense of the municipalities — the general plans for municipal management must qualify what is set up Ports of Galicia; two cannot be included in decisions which involve interference or disturbances in the exercise of the powers determined by Ports; three, the guidelines will prevail over urban planning in matters such as location of infrastructures, uses and placements; four, establishes a port sectoral planning which will prevail over municipal urban planning; five, the report of Ports of Galicia on territorial management instruments will be binding on urban planning; six, excluding municipal preventive control and work licence, which ports of Galicia carry out as public works of general interest — hence all of general interest and by rule — and cannot be suspended by the local administration; seven, in the transitional provision sixth sets out a series of specific urban rules, in so far as they are not approved and specific plans, they will affect the areas and the maximum, and the maximum arrangements will be adopted. And again we don't just tell them the Socialist Group, but I tell Fegamp, the 2014 one, that recommends that in these bill forecasts the rules collected in urban legislation should be met. The Economic and Social Council also recommends local coordination. So they're against the municipalities, the Fegamp, the Economic and Social Council, and they're going to make Ports even less transparent, they're going to benefit the private interests — but we're totally in agreement with you, the most beneficial ones are going to be the entrepreneurs, and that's what they're selling us today. So, for these reasons, we are presenting our amendment to the whole, because, one, is outdated; two, is disappointing, it is not disappointing; three, it does not envisage a planning on the port system; four, it assumes even less transparency for the ports of Galicia, too many uncertainties, gives free bar to administrative concessions by moving away from European legislation and leaves local administrations in a background. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Merlo Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u72	Good morning, to say something. This Member does not understand how three days of struggle can be decreed and the theme and dynamics of a plenary session like this can be maintained. I don't understand. [[Applause]] I want to pretend in a very important detail. We live in a moment of exceptionality, a dramatic moment. And I think it's a pride to belong to that part of citizenship, that citizenship that took off the hat a few years ago from our shores, from our beaches, and also from those who went out on the street trying to help alleviate the effects of their lamps on our land. That's a pride: to be part of that citizenship and not of the other citizenry that does nothing, of a citizenry that helped fight the blades on our land, that helped the bodies that were trying to fight it, supplanting them even in those places where they unfortunately didn't arrive. [[Applause]] I don't like a person who has the responsibility of government not here today. I don't like him transferring an account, a mackerel, of incendiary terrorism. Because, of course, they have us everywhere, but the circumstances are that our mountains are always burning, they don't burn other institutions, they don't burn other facilities, they burn the mountains. Why don't they burn somewhere else? Because there are prevention plans, there are protocols and there are measures to avoid that. The pyromans are the same, the ones who burn are the mountains. [[Applause]] Eight years of ineffective forest policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u73	Mr. Merlo, forgive me. Mr. Merlo, excuse me for a moment. I call the question, I think he's been talking for a couple of minutes now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u74	All right, I'm on it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u75	I'm asking you to get back to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u76	I'm going to the question, it's all related.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u78	Perfect, I'm going to the question at a time when we're going back and let me do my exhibition. We are going to talk about a law of port lobbying — which is what it is — but it is not important because, possibly, if what comes to us — is the advisor here — is the risk of high pollution due to the rains — which can come to remedy what forestry policy does not subsulate, because it must result in a serious pollution problem for our rivers. It's interesting to have a port law, of course, but the important thing is that ports serve what they have to serve and not for dead laughs. So, please, let's work on putting the patches in order not to have to regret any more things. That's the first question. And the second thing I don't understand is why so interested in getting these laws out today, with so much care, when I was in Vigo, for example, had a dramatic situation on yesterday and yesterday. The one yesterday was extremely dramatic. In my street you can't see the opposite building, less than six meters away, because of the intensity of smoke there was. There was a mayor saying that everything was fine, that everything was controlled, when on Alcabre and on the avenue of Europe there were chains of citizens trying to help the security bodies to palliate the effect of the lamps. It's funny that you said that when you don't call firefighting squares, when there's 40 firefighters less than you'd have to have at Vigo City Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u79	Mr. Merlo, I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u80	...when there are 23 drivers less...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u81	Mr. Merlo, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u82	...and when there are motorcycles that have been broken a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u83	I'm sorry. I'll call the matter a second time. You know that, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, if I have to call the matter again a third time, the use of the word will be removed. I think here we allow the necessary jokes so that everyone can manifest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u84	This isn't a joke, this is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u85	I'm saying that everyone can express what they want at first... [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, I'm in the use of the word. I'd appreciate it if you'd listened to the speakers and also to the president when he tries to get the debates to go where they have to go. [[Murmurs.]] I repeat: it's the second call to the question. I beg you, please, to focus on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u86	The theme of Galicia, citizens and citizens is what we are talking about in this Parliament at this time and not the others. No citizen — and neither am I — is willing to talk about something that we're not interested in when we have a state of emergency like this, with a level 2 alert in at least seven fires. [[Murmurs.]] And those who think about something else are somewhere else, live in another reality. [[Murmurs.]] The party that looks most like Galicia... yes, yes, the party that looks most like Galicia today is unfortunately true, because they have some burnt and tired policies that are useless. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're sick of this. It's eight years of ineptitude. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, what do you want me to tell them? Are you going to call me in order not to talk about the law of the harbour lobby? Well maybe so, but no citizen today wants to talk about anything else but what was said yesterday in the streets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u87	Mr. Merlo, I call the matter a third time and I withdraw the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u88	[...] fire never again, and they also said many more things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u89	Mr. Merlo, I've called the question for the third time. I'm sorry that you want the debate to be discussed in this direction. Thank you very much. We now turn around in favour of or against amendments by non-amendant groups. In this case, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor for the Sea, first of all, this Parliament and this Government are not alien to reality. He's no stranger to reality, and that's why he's presenting this Port Law today, in total connection with reality. But after the contradictions in which opposition is prevalent—some say it's a law that is done hastily, others say it's a law that takes many years to be done; i.e., they use the same arguments to reject the Law of Ports, to refuse the Law of Animal Protection, to refuse the Law of the Implementation of Entrepreneurial Measures..., the same destructive arguments and no proposals, no model— after all, I say, first of all, I will sum up in eight concepts what this law means, a step of vital importance to the future of the sea, of fishing, of the nautical, of the marine villages; finally, for the future of Galicia and its 1,700 kilometers of coastline. This law will allow the Law of State Ports to adapt to the peculiarities of the Greek ports with all the advantages and improvements that clearly explained here the Counselor of the Sea, Rosa Quintana. Eight points that I would highlight and which are as follows: strengthening self-government — as you all proclaim here — increase competitiveness, greater legal certainty, use of the harbour line, adaptation to the European framework, greater environmental sustainability, consensus with the port community and improvement and agility in day-to-day ports, of the 122 ports of autonomous ownership. With regard to the speeches of the spokesmen and spokesmen of the opposition — well, in one case I do not want to refer to it, because he said that he was not interested in this subject, he was not interested in the issue to the representative of En Marea — I will try to respond to his amendments, to the statements made without any added motivation — as I said before — formulated without consistent proposals, with always destructive criticisms, in many cases without being true. This is the most serious thing: in many cases it is not true. We're talking about a law made by Galician port technicians, no one better than them to draft this legislative text, because they know the land and they know very well the reality of these 122 autonomous ports. Besides, it's a law that goes in the same line as those that already exist in other autonomous communities. So I will try, in my own time, to respond to the amending groups and to the interventions I have already spoken about, although many answers are worth the three of them, because on many occasions they have made the same criticisms; I insist on always destructive criticisms. With regard to port charges, Mrs Toja, they are regulated by the rule of law, in the general law on the matter which the Autonomous Community has approved, Law 2/2003 of 9 December. Therefore, the issue of port rates is regulated, and attention to its economic impact on port production sectors is analysed and reviewed annually under the Budget Act. They also speak of a "problem organizational model" from the PSdeG. It surprises this statement; above all, because it is an organizational model that engages with the port management model of the ports of general interest of the State, established in Law 27/1992 of 24 November, formulated and approved by a socialist government; in addition, a model of state management that maintains in the recast text of this law of 2001. Another issue that concerns us is the economic and financial regime and investment plans. This is a port management law that regulates the system's self-financing income. And for this purpose it provides for the development of investment and financing programmes, the PAIFs — I do not know whether they are known — which are multi-annual and annual. It is therefore not the case for this document to carry out a financing plan with specific and determined financial allocations. With regard to coordination with local administrations and their autonomy, the law provides for instruments of collaboration in the port interconnection zone with towns — in Article 39 — on the relationship and coordination measures between port planning and territorial management and urban planning instruments. I will highlight paragraph 6 with regard to special port management plans and say that "you can introduce those modifications or killings strictly derived from the nature and purpose of the special plan and necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes, without "and nuance here" "in no case can this replace the general planning in its function as an integral management tool of the territory." What we have to do is read and analyze the text carefully to find out what is said in this gallery. With regard to connection to transport systems, urban contours or logistics platforms, I refer to Articles 38 and 51 on special plans of ports and delimitation of the use of harbour spaces and uses. These plans are expected to include the measures and forecasts necessary to ensure efficient exploitation of port space, its future development and its connection with general systems of land transport and urban environment, and that the delimitation of harbour spaces and uses regulates the need to provide for reserve spaces that guarantee the possibility of development or expansion of port activity. It seems to be a lie, therefore, to say that it does not establish appropriate measures for coordination with the rest of the administrations. To that end, they should read well — I insist — the project and warn how there are measures for intervention by local, environmental authorities, the merchant navy, etc. As for that monster that you see in the private initiative, that one that generates jobs, that one that has all the right of the world, protected by law, to participate in the improvement of the villages, to participate in the improvement of the ports, as a revolution of the local economies, about that monster, which is an opportunity, it is a necessity to move forward -- we only hear vague and diffuse statements by the three groups without any form of foundation. When he governs the left, private initiatives are fantastic and they are always worth it. But when they're in opposition, they're not worth it and they're criminalizing them. It seems like a lie to say this when we know what systems are used in many governments managed by you and what they did when they were ruling during the Bipartite. It says BNG that it considers this document as a privatization of strategic economic activity. On the contrary! It's just that this document is quite the opposite. What's going on is that, as I said at the beginning, the arguments apply to everything, to everything. [[Murmurs.]] The same argument and phrase are valid for them to be against, in all kinds of laws and all kinds of PNL, the People's Party. [[Applause]] What is intended is the opposite, and I'm going to tell you why: because it is to accentuate the regulatory function of the managing public authority with a moderate evolution towards a port management model type tool port and landlord port — which is "tool port" and "owner port"—. This was very well explained in 2004 by former State Port President Fernando González Laxe, in an article in La Voz de Galicia, which spoke clearly about the evolution and where the ports were to go. And besides, it clearly says it and explains that it is quite true that private capital is fundamental, but it is no less certain that it is also public. And he speaks of this model, which he said in Europe is what we have to take away, which is the "tool port", the private property port, so that we move forward, so that we are in prosperity, to climb to the car of evolution and prosperity of the marine villages of Galicia. So this text is presented here to view ports as public service and as a tool for economic activity. You really have to get all the intended performance out of them. The project maintains the public powers to enable, authorize and control all maritime and land activities related to port traffic; the promotion of commercial, industrial, service activities, recorded, in addition to a port fee in Law 6/2003 — as mentioned earlier — of Galicia rates. There is no privatization or delay of the public service; therefore, the longer period of concessions, from thirty to fifty years, is a measure designed to promote the economic activity of ports by allowing for the determination of deadlines in relation to each specific concession allowing the depreciation of investments committed in these concessions. This is the serious and consensual reading that has been done with the sector to get this text forward. This law contains sufficient coordination measures with the management of ports of general interest located in Galicia, but does not assume the violation of the constitutional system governing the distribution of competences between the Administration of the State and the Autonomous Community. On the other hand, the accusation that the role of the municipalities is obvious is untenable, since, precisely because of this desire for coordination and collaboration, this law was made by the hands of the Fegamp, the highest representative organ of the municipal institutions. And it's taken into account for drafting this legislative text. Even so, the accusations concerning urban aspects are inconsistent, because in this area too, the text was technically supervised by the competent body, which is the Territorial Environment and Planning Council. The consensus is therefore the main advantage of the present text, the social and institutional consensus. I would like to recommend that you read Article 71, which also reads Article 71 calmly, to check that the conditions for your grant in ports include interesting aspects relating to the protection of the environment or maritime traffic, among many others. And even so, at 116 -- I'm not going to report it because it has multiple points -- they have public service obligations. And at 118 objective levels of service are established in the provision of port services. The law therefore establishes connections with objectives of quality, environment and public service obligations. You have to read the text well, you have to read the law. Of course, I understand that in order to make the amendments to all the laws that are presented, it is very convenient to have an argumentary, but you must read the law and know well what is presented. It is not subordinated to private investment. That's a lie. I would also like to say that it is not true that there is a model of infinite growth and that it is not betted by the recovery of traditional vessels. On the contrary, this parliamentary group and the Union have already planned their commitment to maritime culture, its dissemination, its conservation and its promotion. I mean, of the 122 installations, only 23 have a sports port, and most of them, almost all, also have fishing activity. So it's compatible. Don't come here with global assertions of everything that's not real. On the other hand, it should be made clear that most of the German autonomous ports, fortunately, have a mixed activity — fishing, commercial and nautical sport —, a reality that singularizes them against the activity present in other autonomous ports. I can put examples of this mixed activity, which have a notorious economic dimension, and which are, for example, Ribadeo, Celero, Burela, Honey, Laxe, Pepper of Caraminal or Ribeira. So that mixed reality is complex and goes into this law, it goes perfectly into this law. In any case, fishing activity is perfectly cared for, and also with regard to infrastructure and services for the mexillary sector, which has always been very high priority for this People's Parliamentary Group and for this Union of Galicia. As for the amendments of En Marea — I do not speak of the intervention, I would rather not mention the intervention of the spokesman of En Marea because it seems embarrassing in such a case as this of such a law as expected and so long awaited — I mean — only with regard to the amendments they have tabled, because I have read all the amendments to the whole that you have submitted — that the intentions already, the declaration of intentions, are empty of technical arguments and without even taking into account on many occasions the legislation in force, that is clear. But I want to say that, with regard to the Rector Council, where you do so much fincapé, Article 13 of this law sets out parameters for determining the membership of the members of that council and its origin, expressly foresees the presence of local entities, corporations, entities, organizations and associations most representative of users, and also the presence of local authorities. On the other hand, they are still installed in inertia, in paralysis, they go back, they always return to the past, incongruity, retrogression... We invite them to join the car of progress, which still have time to support a law like this, a law that seeks — as the counselor has already said — to speed up the operation of the Harbour Administration, to speed up the procedures of employers in the concessions and give them greater guarantees, to improve the conditions of giving them and port facilities, to establish the compatibility of uses and to improve the port-city relationship, port-ville; to ensure the normal functioning of the work of the users of the ports through the reinforcement of the figure of the shipguard and the axillization of transits such as the removal of abandoned ships. So you still have time to recapitulate, you still have time to vote affirmatively this text, which will be a guarantee of success, surely, for the future of our ports and for the future of Galicia. They add to the beauty and the future. So we will reject your amendments to the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Replica of amending groups. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u92	BNG will support the amendments to the whole tabled by the Socialist Party and also by En Marea, because, with different approaches and nuances, they are coincidentally in many respects. And the truth, Mrs. Egerique, is that, of course, the arguments of the People's Party are strong. I mean, those of the opposition are vague, inconsistent, unfounded, we don't read the law... I'd ask you for a little modesty, eh!, a little modesty. In this law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you can put yourself in the way you want and come here, taking out as the first question which is a law made by technicians. As everyone knows, it's the technicians who legislate, it's the technicians who decide the orientation of the laws, it's the technicians who decide that, instead of being a public service, they go towards a complete liberalisation approach. Everyone knows this is what technicians do, because governments are only about to implement what technicians say. It's not the other way around, governments don't take the lead and the technicians do it, it's not the other way around. It's the technicians who say where to go. I would, of course, ask for a bit of rigour, which is what you like to say so much. The reality is that this law is a blank check for the Galician Board and a total check for the municipalities. That's at least: a total blank check for the Galician Board, which leaves for future developments a very important part of the law, with which it goes through decree, that's right —or, Mrs. Egerique?, did you say anything to the law contrary to what I'm saying, that law that we don't read? It leaves for future developments a very important part, it's a blank check for the Board and a total none for the Town Councils. It does not include management, planning, integral operation of the whole of the port system. It's one of the issues that brings them up from the ESC: it doesn't respond to an integral planning that would be necessary. It does not include coordination mechanisms between organizations. Or is there any article in that law, Mrs Egerique, in which a coordination mechanism is established between the administrations? I don't think so. You should read it with a little more rigor, with a little more care, because I don't think so. I don't think he's putting any of that on. And it does not foresee an integral strategic plan for the whole Galician port system that marks general guidelines, which mark targets to be achieved, which marks criteria and requirements to be taken into account for that overall planning and execution. Don't contemplate anything of that, contemplate islands, contemplate islands, where the only thing you're looking for is that box. It consolidates the harbour areas as spaces for the exploitation of activities not linked to the sea. It is, in fact, constantly talking about industrial and commercial uses, not linked to port or sea-related activity, which clearly shows what willality is. It has a brutal alarming urge in this enlargement of the thirty to fifty years, and a brutal sanctioning regime whereby it establishes that there may be penalties of up to 60,000 euros for bathing or fishing on the docks, a sanctioning regime that has nothing to do with the reality of Galicia; that is, up to 60,000 euros for bathing or fishing in port facilities without permission. There is a clear purpose of liberalizing port services that seems to want to convert ports into a sort of commercial, industrial or nautical leisure polygons. That's the real reality. Of course, we will have time to talk for the kid in the debate on partial amendments. Today we are speaking in the debate to the whole, to the whole; and, of course, the judgment of the BNG raises the arguments. He has no country ambition, he has no ambition that Galicia can decide to fully compute and manage Galician port resources. It has no kind of ambition, it leaves out the so-called ports of general interest and does not include mechanisms to request such transfers. And, of course, what he contemplates is discretionality and whimsicalness in much of his articulate. So, of course, there's no reason, there's no reason here, that exposes those exposed in the previous intervention by BNG, so we're going to keep our vote in favour of withdrawing this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. It's very easy to get up here and say that you don't read the laws and that you don't prepare the interventions when all you do is read what you write from the Government, from the corresponding board. It's a failure for those we're here to represent citizens and citizens. [[Applause]] There may be discrepancies... you said it, it's up to me, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We may be at odds, but we always have to maintain respect and value the work that people do here. This law doesn't convince us or convince the government itself or anyone who proposes it. And you know why we tell them this? Because this law wasn't even part of his electoral program in the last autonomous elections. It's only been a year, which is always so surprising. [[Applause]] A year ago this law wasn't part of this government's goals, and now it turns out it's essential. But at that moment they must have thought that this law didn't add up votes and that's why they decided not to put it down, and now they're giving it forward. Let us bear in mind that some of the formulations contained in your electoral program were themes such as port equipment, dredging plans, security enhancement, all of them in relation to the text that is being discussed today and that was not part of your electoral program. Look, there's something else that doesn't even seem important to us, but it seems important to us, which is the impact of gender. In the project they include that "a balanced presence of women and men will be sought." That's how it goes to women, too! They should modify it and respect the principle of the balanced presence of women and men, transversal equality policies. And also, ladies and gentlemen, the PP should demand that its government have transversal policies of equality with concrete facts. With regard to the administrative concessions and the fifty-year fights, we have the same thing again: free bar on administrative concessions to private companies. And by setting another example, another fact, the closest reference we have to the government concessions Feijóo is the granting of Vigo's hospital, a work valued at 315 million euros that will be amortized in twenty years, 315 million euros in twenty years, off the annual quota of 40 million euros. Even if it comes to different sectors, the investment of a port work, of course, will be much smaller than these 300 and peak million. But as a reference, that amount, in twenty years; and in this law, in this project, are speaking today of fifty years. As we said, it is far from European Union legislation and far from the accounting criteria for recovery and depreciation that are being defended here. We repeat the same thing: for metal pellets, thirty years; for wood pellets, ten years; for machinery, less than twenty-five years. And today you're looking at 50 years, free bar for administrative concessions and private companies. We've already told them that we're going to logically maintain our amendment to the whole, because we understand that it can't be any other way. It is a project that is outdated — the memory is 2014 — and it is disappointing, disappointing to ports that only 4 million euros are invested; it does not involve actions or planning on the Greek port system and has too many uncertainties or suspicions that are not clarified. There is a need for transparency. Of the 9 million contracts, 2.1 are tenders; 4.7, almost 5, minor contracts. An exercise of transparency! And by the way, without being able to logically forget everything that's happening in Galicia, he told me again to the Counsellor to ask her again to activate the Camgal plan, because it rained, yes, because it rained, because the ashes were dragged to the sea. The shellfish, the fish, all that, filters the ashes and has negative consequences. We already have a lot, a lot to regret, and we don't add any more themes to this black list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u96	All right, we have to say is if we read the laws and we work on them and we bet on them. I am not going to debate that, because for us today is not the debate. The debate is that there is misinformation, there is ignorance, there is insensitivity and there is a policy of looking elsewhere when the problems are facing. And the problems have to be cut in front of them. Obviously, it may be very interesting to develop a law of ports of Galicia, but, if it happens, public interest is another. I mean, today the president of the board made statements in which he consulted with Fegamp to find out if any of the German citizens had lost their homes. Of course, in the public information channels, one couldn't find out about these kinds of issues, because the information that was given all day ago and so on didn't stick to reality. That's a problem we have, too. [[Applause]] And we agree to debate laws, to work on them, but we must remember that the laws must then be fulfilled. Because if we only approve them and don't execute them, then they're no use either. Speaking of these things, because we don't want to talk about vagueness, which is what this law is about. And we want you to talk about, above all, what's going on right now, we want to know if there's really going to be palliative and preventive measures so that this doesn't go any further. Because the direct consequences we've all known, but the indirect consequences are coming. And I think it's very frivolous...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u97	That's the question, Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u98	I'm not going to the point, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u99	Aren't you going?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u100	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u101	So then we shorten the following steps, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u102	I don't know if you can do that or not, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u103	I shouldn't do it, but you know he's processing it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u104	Then don't do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u105	But then you can go on and I'll have to do it three times, but you know what I'm going to do. So, you and I can deal with it, or, if you're not going to talk, I'll have to comply with the Rules of Procedure. As you decide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u106	I think it's about having a height of sight right now and being in solidarity with all the citizenship that's suffering and that's living a hard and difficult time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u107	Thank you, we all agree on that, but on the matter. The question for the second time means that if I call you a third, I'd have to take your word off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u108	Well, I hope you don't call the question the third time, because of course, all of these consequences, as I've said before, reoccur on a matter of prime importance, which is that of our laughs. And a law of ports has to serve precisely for the activity of our rivers, which is nothing other than fishing and seafood, mainly. And I think that's why we have to have live laughs and productive laughs, and they're seriously threatened with what's happening as we talk about things in the future when we're not present with what's happening now. In the previous plenary session of Parliament, when we made proposals to prevent what is happening today, we were given a very angry answer saying that, well, it was all right, that they were very controlling the subject. And we see, the subject is over-controlled. It's as controlled as it is, when we were told that the brigades that started their activity before ended before because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u109	Mr. Merlo, the thing was fine, but it's not about it. Don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u110	Yeah, it's about it. The thing is, we're with companies that are providing a service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u111	Thank you, Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u112	...for a benefit, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u113	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Mr. Merlo, you've finished your shift. I have to take your word off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u114	You cannot touch the audience to encourage the interest of the private.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u115	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Ditame debate and vote, delivered by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u116	Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group are maintained. The president of Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, Ms Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. The Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group, was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 28 July 2017. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on that same day, admitted to this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. The plenary session of Parliament, held on 12 September 2017, took account of this proposal. Even so, the Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 13 September 2017, agreed to open the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulate and proposed to the Council of Spokesman that it be processed by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism. A total of 285 amendments were tabled to the articulation; 42 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 90 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 123 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and 30 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. The amendments were qualified on 29 September 2017. The presentation was nominated at the Commission meeting 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism of 2 October 2017, with the following speakers: by the Popular Parliamentary Group, Don Miguel Tellado Filgueira as the holder and don Marta Novoa Iglesias as an alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Don Antón Sánchez García as the holder and Don Juan José Merlo Lorenzo as an alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Don Abel Losada Álvarez as the holder and Don José Manuel Pérez as an alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Don Noa Pres Bergantiño as the holder and Don Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz as an alternate. The constitutive session was held on 2 October 2017 with the assistance of the incumbent rapporteurs, Mr Tellado Filgueira, Mr Losada Álvarez and Mrs Presas Berganginos; and with the alternates, Mrs Novoa Iglesias, Mr Merlo Lorenzo and Mr Pérez Seco. At the following meetings we studied the whole of this bill, as well as the amendments to the articulate presented, in search of the approximation of the different positions. Finally, at the last meeting, which took place on 5 October 2017, the presentation issued its report. Subsequently, Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, at its meeting on 9 November 2017, adopted its opinion with seven votes in favour and five against, incorporating in the text of the bill, in addition to a technical amendment, a total of 53 amendments; in particular, 29 of the People's Parliamentary Group, 5 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 16 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block. Of the 16 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia, 7 of them were dealt with. Following the withdrawal of an amendment from the People's Parliamentary Group at the stage of the motion, the remaining amendments rejected in this plenary are maintained: 118 of the En Marea Group, 74 of the Socialist Group and 79 of the Galego Nationalist Block Group. Finally, it follows that the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia consists, in addition to its explanatory statement, of a preliminary title and three titles developed in forty-one articles. The preliminary title sets out the object of the law, the scope, its principles and administrative powers; Title I is dedicated to the legal system of industrial soil; Title II concerns the improvement of legislation for the promotion of the implementation of business initiatives; and Title II on the system of incentives for the promotion of business initiatives. On the other hand, its final part is incorporated into 2 additional provisions, 5 transitional provisions, 2 derogatory provisions and 15 last provisions; one of which establishes the entry into force of this law, if so, on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia, with the exception of measures to rationalise commercial logging, which will take effect within six months from its entry into force. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia. Nothing else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. We therefore begin the debate with the turn of parliamentary groups to set its position. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u119	Good morning to all of you, to say something. Well, I think we all have to agree, at least, at least that our country is right now going through a difficult time. But I have to confess, if you allow me your lordships, who yesterday, with several days of fatigue accumulated by the concern, with mixed feelings between anger, impotence and so on, when at twelve o'clock at night in Ourense there was not a single drop of water, yesterday, when many media outlets had finished the problem of fires while I had just talked to mayors of my province who were absolutely desperate, I felt absolutely unheard of having to take the car today to come to a full of the Greek Parliament that would normally be celebrated. [[Applause]] I recognize that there is a sentimental component, because those we are not technocrats of the head or heart have feelings, yes, indeed. [[Applause]] With the rain coming in in the morning, the risk reduction and already rationalizing — since we understand that we have to come here also talking about important things and making decisions — continues to seem unheard of — and I have to say so — that the President of the Government is not here today to come in to explain the situation to us and to explain it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u120	That's the point, Mrs. Presas, that's the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u121	Yes, don't worry, Mr. Santalices, that what we're going to debate now has a lot to do with this. Since the arrival of the rain does not mean the arrival of normality either, I want to take advantage of my intervention to convey all our affection to the people affected, also to the brothers of Portugal and to the devices of extinction, and also to all the neighbors and neighbors who are fighting for this crisis to end. I would also like to convey our solidarity with the abandonment. There will be time for us to calmly analyze all this, but I simply — and I will finish this question — to remember that Ourense had been burning up for a week and that there were a lot of people who had been alerting us about this abandonment situation who still have a lot of people fighting the fire right now. [[Applause]] Well, but today I continue, focusing more on what Mr. Santalices doesn't argue about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u122	Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u123	I have no doubt that you, as a goldsmith, have also spent some bad nights. But today is a sad day too because, except surprise, the People's Party will impose with its absolute majority, alone, the adoption of the law that we are going to debate, a law that you, authentic experts in euphemisms, call "implementation." But as it has well qualified this country's environmental and social associationism, trade union organizations and political organizations, we have renamed this law as "the law of predation." So today, in one of the most dramatic moments in our country, where this approval will pass unnoticed, because we have to say that we are also sad because we know that this will be a new threat to our country, with opposition in Parliament and on the street. Because the "predation law", ladies, they like it or not, has an impact on the model that led us to this situation, and we have to say that. It involves deregulation, it affects arbitrariness, it affects territorial imbalance, it affects boycott and persecution of what the communal mountains mean and this model of management in our country, it affects environmental deprotection, the absence of public participation by the administration, the lack of competence. He insists that the decisions of the municipalities, the neighbourhood, the collectives be removed by disengaging the society of the custody of the territory — which is a very serious mistake — should be removed. Incidences to deepen incineration and refuses to promote decisively composting and other formulae for waste management. Opens the door to generalization of energy crops as a dominant model. Opens the door to the installation on non-traditional biomass itself without rational and planned control. It affects the lack of planning, the disorder of the mountain. It focuses on the privilege of eucalyptization and foreign species in front of the leafy and traditional forest. Incidences in the deregulated heel in view of the planned and multifunctional use of our mountain. I've just set fifteen examples with only fifteen minutes to intervene. And it could follow much more, because this law is a real molotov cocktail that seeks to expand the principles of the law of the jungle and that walks in the opposite direction of what this country needs. That's why we want to ask you again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to withdraw this law, to open a different process to solve and discuss what this country needs. [[Applause]] They lost the opportunity in taking into consideration, missed the opportunity in the debate of the state of the nation. They refused to stop this project and seek the consensus that this country needs to solve its structural problems in the economic, industrial and forestry fabric. It would be legally possible what we are saying, but it was clear from the procedure that accompanied this law all the time that, of course, its willingness is not to dialogue, it is to impose, without more cutting-ups, a "Frankenstein law" in which they include all kinds of changes that affect various laws of transcendental importance. So, we have substantial changes in wind law, mining law, nature conservation law, the water law, the mountain law, the sun law... and we could follow. And not only that, but in this procedure I express my parliamentary group, the People's Party, has also introduced more articles and more amendments, than we will then discuss. By setting just one example of the severity of this and what it means in practical terms, however regulatory it may be, I will cite an example of this authoritarianism, which can be regulated but which to us contradicts what should be the processing of such a law, just one example. You amend, in a very important way, also, the Mines Act. Well, the state mine law, you know what year it is? It's 73. That is, we have a state law, a framework that covers, in addition, regulation that comes from franchise, and Galicia, which in 2008 discussed and approved the first law in the sector, precisely if it was the first one is because it is a tremendously complex issue. In fact, his work in writing — which was something more than saying that amendments were accepted and which did not — lasted more than six months. This gives an image, it gives a picture, of which is the complexity and which is the depth with which to evaluate and submit changes in sectors as important as this one, and it is an image that is an absolute irresponsibility of what the People's Party is going to do today. You will then criticise that we have proposed a lot of suppression amendments, but we have given you the opportunity to leave some of these sectors for another moment, to say that you have given in the matter of mining, the question of wind or the issue of forest, which have given rise to some issue, showing us that you were willing to open some kind of dialogue on some of the fundamental elements of our country, but no, they have continued forward, they have simply accepted a few amendments from the opposition to conceal this strategy, but they do not introduce any substantial change. In terms of the Galego Nationalist Block, they accept one that would correct a lapse, and then they accept some that would harmonise content that we introduced in order to strengthen the control processes, but they did not accept the articles that would have to be incorporated. Therefore, more makeup. And that'll be regulatory, but it's the antithesis of what should be such a procedure. We therefore insist on the need for withdrawal. First, they perverted parliamentary rules, skipped reports about it, making such processing to prevent organisms like the ESC from speaking out, selling the falsity of an existence and a dialogue process, they had, above all, the hard face of telling us here that they had dialogue with the forces of the opposition, which is already subreal, and reduced the proceedings to a minimum, seeking a single objective, which is that this great threat to the country had gone through with total dissimulation. And they did it consciously, but we're a strong people, a people who don't want the model sponsoring this law of depredation to go ahead, because you've lost before: they lost in Corcoesto, they lost when they had to remove the draft from the law of aquaculture, when they weren't allowed to speculate with the centrals of the river Xallas and so on. So they wanted to make this procedure so that no one would understand. Even so, despite the rush and concealment, we have to say and thank the efforts of many social and environmental groups who have brought us closer together and have done a very important work of expansion of what this law means throughout our country. We all want to send them a message from the Galego Nationalist Block of Thankment, but also of encouragement, and also tell them that the approval of this law today is simply the loss of a battle, but we have a lot to win. Yesterday we prove that we are a living and challenging people, who do not resign themselves to telling us that if we are in the situation we are, that if we have the deficiencies we have, it is by divine law, but we know that with politics and social movements and with another answer we can change. And we'll also show it this Sunday when people go out and stop paralyzing this law and to defend another forest policy. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we really think that since the Galego Nationalist Block we should reflect on what we have been living in the last few days and assume that the policy of letting hurry policy, the policy of lack of a model, will not lead us anywhere. You came late — as we said in the previous debate — to the debate about relocation, and now you want to take advantage of a concern to do what they do, to take advantage of a law that is a genuine Frankenstein and to change without consensus, especially in the forestry and extractive sectors. That you focus primarily on these two areas gives you an idea of the country model you want. You only conceive a Galician of energy plantations and mining farms, but we believe that another development model is possible and that this is absolutely grave. You don't know whether it's lack of a model or the model of the law of the jungle, we don't know it's going to be worse, but of course, that this law is almost exclusively focused on soil, energy and extraction, it seems extremely dangerous to us. And you do it this way, too hurried and through a supposed increase in legislative activity to conceal your lack of planning, targets and budgetary commitments, also with the Italian industrial fabric. And they do it to, through the back door, take advantage of a concern that exists in society, reduce channels of participation, limit public exposure, limit the role of the municipalities and reduce where authorizations can be made by responsible declarations, and, of course, they will not do so with our silence. They seek in this law, without cutting, to favor the general interest of extractive or energy companies, to make that interest prevail above the interest that neighbouring might have, above the model that we may want to develop in each of our councils. And they do so by legalizing, authorising and implementing two Trojan horses that we cannot share: that declaration of singular business projects and that reduction of the requirements of strategic industrial projects. Of course, we have to repeat to you that we are not going to be complicit with that model of friendship capitalism which reduces transparency, which also prevents small Galician companies from competing in free competition with others. We asked him at the previous session of the Plenary, in which we dealt with this law, if this was the safe conduct of Ence, if this was his alternative to legalizing projects such as the Bayona golf course, which is facing so much opposition, as Porto Cabral, as the Touro mine, which we will talk about tomorrow, and they have not answered. You sweep forward, and your administrative silence, of course, proves that we were right. Their attitude toward amendments as well. I insist that they have not accepted any of those that go in the opposite direction, nor those requests for suppression to give this debate any other way, nor even to take advantage of any of the issues in which you give up almost as a legal and state imperative in your law, which is in all the reference to composting. They lose another opportunity to reduce incineration by approving the proposal for a Welsh strategy to reduce incineration and to bet seriously and strictly on composting. As always, they come late, badly, and the trace of the debates this country has. Since the BNG we think we can't afford any more waste of time, we can't afford to continue wasting time without giving a rational debate about what model our productive sectors need, including our mountain, our forest sector, and also our economy globally. We cannot continue to waste more time and, of course, what we cannot do is allow today the adoption of a law which is a real threat of systematic and unregulated depredation in our country. We won't be accomplices. And we ask him again, please remove this wild pre-project and do it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, I'm going to talk little about fires, especially so they won't take my word off, but I really want to talk about geographic precision. I've got a little house in a parish of Ourense Town Hall, in a parish village called the Pallers' Village. The parish is called Castrelo and the municipality is called San Juan de Río. Yesterday morning the fire came literally to the wall; thanks to the neighbors of the area who stopped it there. For that parish, Santa Maria de Castrelo, San Juan de Río, Ourense, does not appear on the website of Junta de Galicia. I don't know if they all show up, but that -- and I think it's meant to teach the photo -- of course, it doesn't. [[Applause]] I don't know if it was a virtual smoke, a virtual fire, or some kind of Sigpac problem at the Council. We are going to discuss the Law on the promotion and implementation of business initiatives, I say because data is always important. Data reflects reality, usually; normally. And I repeat again: in the parish of Castrelos yesterday there was a fire that affected a village, literally, to the houses; literally, to the houses. Law to promote the implementation of business initiatives. We have already expressed our position against the committee, and today we must also speak — and I am still on the subject — of another law, of this fictitious law — as a legislative body, not as fictitious as a political practice. Today, a motion of censure is being developed in the plenary of the Tui Council; a law to promote motions of censure by the People's Party throughout the provinces of Pontevedra and Ourense fundamentally. That's how it looks like we need to sort it out too, because when they fill up their mouths saying to rule the most voted list, it's going to be mayor... [[Applause]] The most voted list I know what it is, the People's Party list, and the mayor also know who it will be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u126	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u127	The mayor also knows who he'll be. So, speaking of free market, Mr. Pazos Couñago, what will the mayor give to the PP, so that, being the most voted list, he is absent from the mayor? That's what I'm telling you to come here and tell us. [[Applause]] What will the future mayor of Tui give to the People's Party so that, being the most voted party in Tui, he gives the mayor of the Tui party, Siglo XXI? That's the relevant question, Mr Pazos. Well, you finally know that because it's from a council that's literally buying a group that allows them to continue ruling. You know that, don't you? Buying, I say it in political terms, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u128	Quiet. Let's go to business law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u129	Let's go to the law, let's go to the law in the Galician Parliament Bulletin. Shakespeare wrote, in Windsor's cheerful comics, an illustrative phrase, which is, "if money goes forward, all roads open." Instead of Windsor, let's put Monte Pío in the back! This law is perfectly that metaphor. If money goes ahead and economic activity, whatever it is and falls down, it goes ahead, all legislative and chronological doors open. Because I want to resume the speech of the chairman of the committee, who actually gave us the timing of the processing of this proposal for a People's Party bill. The fact is that, given that the issue of industrial implementation is an issue, let us say that secondary to the economic activity of any Western country, because it is not the Government who is present and the group that supports it is an absolutely common practice in all the parliaments of Europe, I am sure. It was registered, indeed, on July 28 of this year, that the feast of Galicia National Day had already been held... at last, we were almost on vacations — because I suppose we have vacations and we have rights; it is a right that has cost many years and many union struggles to conquer. July 28th. Today is October 17, and it will be approved with all possible emergencies, gathering the presentation on the days of the debate of the state of Autonomy — i.e., the debate of the state of Autonomy was being held between the meeting and the meeting of the presentation to approve this law. No one has explained to us what the rush is, because I want to remember that Mr. Feijóo has been ruling since 2009. So, maybe, there's some credible reason. If it's confessable, please confess it, and if it's untrustworthy because they should do some penance in theological terms, I don't say for the purpose of amendment, because, at last... This law still lacks the fundamental themes for industrial location, still lacks research, innovation, training, human capital; everything that differs from the industrial systems of the advanced countries of the least developed countries. I never thought, really, of having to debate, study and do an economic analysis almost in that structuralist model of the sixties of growth in the face of development. I thought — I guess naively — that this was over, that we all understood that development means growth and something else, and that something else is what makes the advanced countries different, and that's what makes the advanced societies of others that, unfortunately, are not. And I want to talk about four fundamental issues: the first one — as always; I recognize that I am a little repetitive, but each one has his speech characteristics, ideology and politics. It's an ideological law that doesn't match mine, but it doesn't sound bad. I'm sure you'll get here some Popular Party technocrat saying that "it's a law that doesn't, that doesn't have ideology, because how are we going to come to do ideology and politics to a parliament, if what's coming is playing golf usually?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Therefore, ideology and politics. And ideology and politics are very clear: state is the problem and not the solution. And that goes for ObamaCare in the United States, goes for industrial deployment in Galicia and goes for the denial of climate change on the right side of the most reactionary reaction in most Western countries; the state is the problem, that's the fundamental issue. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, "the state is the problem" means something, it has consequences: the state is the problem for those whose action the state takes away from them -- I don't care whether they are monetary, via taxes, or otherwise -- but it's very important for those who don't have any other mechanism of action and defense other than the public -- therefore there are winners and losers. I'm very used to listening to Mr. Feijóo that mantra they "rule for all." It's like doing more with less, something that everybody knows it's not possible, it's not possible to do more with less. It's true that you can be more effective, more efficient, but... No, no, it's not possible, it doesn't contain milongs, it's not possible to do more with less. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's possible is to do less with more, and if not, look at Vigo's Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital: 850 beds, 1.4 billion euros. That's possible. [[Applause]] That's what it's possible! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez interrupts his speech to address Mr. President.]] Was he wide open?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u130	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u131	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u132	Excuse me, I don't know what happened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u133	Don't worry, my self-esteem is perfectly safe. Well, anyway, more with less, no; less with more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u134	The third one throws me...? No, I hope... It was the theme, eh! The Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital has a lot to do with deregulation and that's why Shakespeare said that, if the money goes ahead, all the roads open. There are winners and losers, and we see it in the statistics; we see the concentration of the incomes of capital and the yields of capital, as a percentage of..., against the incomes of work. [[Intelligible.]] We cannot allow the speech that administrative procedures must be simplified to lead to cuts in administration. No, we can't afford it, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I can agree with you that administrative procedures need to be simplified; but if administrative procedures are to be simplified, a modern country has to have mechanisms of ex post control, and that cannot be done if the Administration slows down months to year and month. It can't be done! And when Mr Montoro does an amnesty of taxation and in Spain we have for every 100,000 inhabitants one third less farm inspectors than in countries like the Netherlands or like France, because, undoubtedly, we are favouring tax fraud; indirectly, by default, by default, but we are favouring it. And we can't favor the escalating increase of profits either. I am absolutely supportive that the benefit rate of an investment must first allow the reinvestment of a part of it, and, of course, to be a reasonable rate; that which you used without any smell in renewables, because there were important interests in stopping them. I agree with the benefit rate of renewables. And I said many times in this Parliament that there was probably a certain moment when there was a broad sleeve with certain rates of benefit in renewable energy, but from there to brutal enrichment, in the face of very questionable working and environmental conditions, there is a very, very long way. And I'm going back to the data, and I'm going back to Eurostat, which yesterday published poverty data, and I think some pretty illustrative data. They're data from Spain. I know you're going to tell me Mr. President of the Board -- or in this case Mr. Tellado, at least -- that in Galicia we are much better. It's a numerical and denominator effect: we're a little better, but it's because the population here is getting smaller, whereas, in other parts of Spain, we all know it's still growing. So I know the question -- finally, I'm going to split up, to the four rules and not to much more, but up to that point -- "Spain, third country in the European Union where the risk of poverty has increased since 2008." And, I say, 2008, so nobody talks about it's a partisan speech, etc.; 2008. But by the way, when GDP fell, the number of poor people got worse. The saddest thing is that as GDP increases by 3.3 per cent, it continues to increase the number of poor or decreases to virtually non-existent rhythms. But this is not the most serious thing; the most serious thing is that the third part of the poor Spaniards has a paid job. Eurostat doesn't say Abel Losada or the Socialist Party of Galicia: "A third of the poor Spaniards has a paid job." Growing to 3.5 percent, can anyone tell me where that part of the cake goes? I think the question is quite... nothing revolutionary or subversive. I insist, where is that part of the cake in a country where, as it grows to 3,3 or 3,5 % — and we say it is the highest growth in Western Europe practically — one third of the workers are what is called poor workers? I'm waiting for someone from the People's Party to answer this question someday; it's true that it's a good hope, but, well, I keep it. The second point: advertising and propaganda. Proposal for a People's Group Act; that means, indeed, the absolutely stratospheric acceleration of processing — that we have all seen — to avoid reports... do you think it reasonable that a law called "Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia" does not have a report from the Economic and Social Council or an economic memory? Do you think it's sensible, reasonable...? You think they should say something about this? I don't know, maybe... I see a grave silence... maybe, until I'm right... but, of course... no, no, I appreciate it. I thank silence; I am very spiritual, I thank silence. But, in any case, could anyone seem reasonable that an implementing law...? [[Murmurs.]] Man, they're so interactive sometimes, I'd like you to interact with others as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How does an industrial implementation law not have an economic memory? Please, I hope the spokesperson of the People's Party explains it. [[Applause]] I'm looking forward to the lessons of the People's Party spokesman; as always, on the other hand. [[Murmurs.]] And in addition to this speed in processing, they change... I will allow myself, in the second intervention, to read the report of laws that change. That's what we never talk about... it's about short-terms, it's about agility at last... and it's about the voice of the Galician Nationalist Block... finally, this dynamic that, in the doing busyness, you have to be in the first place. Yes, yes, but I want to be in the first places, like Sweden; not like Qatar, eh! I want to be like Sweden and not like Qatar. So you can be in two ways and I'm very afraid this law is going to look the wrong way. Then, when we talk about budgets, the thing is already getting more complicated, because, in the last debate of the state of Autonomy, between the meeting and the presentation meeting, the Socialist Party made a compromise proposal on the quantification of the Greek Government's financial effort, precisely to strengthen these industrial deployments, which was nothing different — as it was said in some way — that in the programme to support industrial modernization, it had increased at the same pace as GDP — I insist, if we speak of execution, we have to talk about multi-annualities, but I have already not spoken of execution, Mr Counsellor; that this programme had increased at the same rate as GDP and that the innovation programme had increased by 50% more than the rate of GDP, because it is the only way to increase the weight of GDP to get closer to that European target. They seemed absolutely sensible to me; perhaps, instead of 50% over GDP growth, it had to be 25%. He didn't even consider himself; he told us he didn't. I don't know if you went to the Business Council, if you went to the Economics Council... I therefore insist: clearly ideological discourse. Where the funds are, the doors are opened; and I think Shakespeare was a magnificent speculator who became a millionaire in the silk market in London. It's true, yes; in fact, The merchant of Venice is almost autobiographical. Finally, I am not an expert in theatre; in which, of course, I am an expert — I insist —... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u135	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u136	Well, come back to me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u137	Silence! It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u138	Don't hurt me. There are many things that don't hurt me and in which, however, I'm not an expert, but I appreciate the benevolence of the People's Party. In any case — I insist — deregulation in disguise of an economic opportunity that no one has explained to us, because nobody tells me that this — except the ball that is placed on the ceiling of the municipalities — serves to solve industrial floor problems in Galicia. That's right, yes, just like I didn't transport Vigo's metropolitan: the board invites and the municipalities pay. So, no!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u139	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u140	Good morning to all of you. I don't know if you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party can read from there, but if you don't, I want to read it to you. January 29, 2007, Feijóo: "With us there were no people in the fires; and with them, four people." [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a writing.]] We're not going to do that, nor do we; neither do we, nor do we, because it's the clearest example of what a politician shouldn't do in the face of events like those that happened in this country. [[Applause]] We're not like you. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The lack of scruples to use this in the political battle is horrifying. We're not gonna do this either. We're not gonna do that. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a photograph.]] We have other principles, we have ethics, we have responsibility for this country and we have commitment to this country; just the opposite of what Mr Feijóo has shown in these statements or any other statements he has made about it. They don't care about any political bills, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Here are the reactions of these days of opposition, and they compare, and that compares citizenship, to see that difference. But of course we want to talk about this problem. Of course we want to talk, because people — even the voters of the People's Party — want answers, don't want political leaders...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u141	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u142	I'm on it. I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u143	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u144	I warn you, Mr President, I don't know if you know the content of this bill, but it has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u145	Then tie it well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u146	It fosters a model that causes certain circumstances that aggravate this problem. The citizen doesn't want this. Citizens don't want them to use institutions to divert attention; they want them to give explanations; there's no lack of information; they're going to answer here, in Parliament, everything that has happened: the lack of foresight, the lack of effectiveness in the fight against fire. They want that, they don't want them to use institutions to advertise and advertise and to divert attention from that incompetence, that ineffectiveness in the fight against fires, forest policy and the country model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u147	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u148	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u149	It's the second... No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u150	I'm contextualizing my intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u151	No, no, I'm sorry, but I'm not. I, up there, I know how to distinguish. Second call to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u152	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u153	Excuse me a moment, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u154	Mr. President, if you don't know the content of the law, it's your problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u155	No, no, no, sorry. Second call to the question. And a third call to the question is to withdraw his word. I don't know if you understand me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u156	Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u157	I repeat: second call to the question. If I have to call it back, I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u158	You have a position of force...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u159	No, no, I'm sorry; everything, except that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u160	...and you can use it for whatever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u161	No, I'm sorry, it's not my character, and I'm not going to discuss it. So you have two calls to the question. You'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u162	This is one of the problems of focusing discussions on the issue of fires and the forest sector, Mr President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u163	No, no, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u164	...the lack of a comprehensive approach and country model, which is what I'm going to talk about. This bill...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u165	No, we have to talk... Don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u166	...—Let me speak, Mr President, of the promotion of deep business initiatives in a model that causes abandonment and aging of the rural environment and the country; one of the issues which experts themselves point to as a serious problem which increases the risk of fires, Mr President. If you won't let me talk about it, let's not talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u167	Yeah, no, no... Third call to the question. You can't keep talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u168	Mr President, this is intolerable. This is intolerable!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u169	No, I'm sorry. Sorry, we can't... No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u170	This is intolerable, Mr. President. You can't shut up the opposition, you can't shut up the opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u171	I know... Mr. Sánchez... Mr. Sánchez...! No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry, I call the question, and another thing is that we start with calls to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u172	I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u173	No, don't tell me... No, I am sorry about the respect that a President of Parliament deserves. I'll call you in order. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived and abandons the rostrum of speakers.]] Do not cause situations... call for order and, of course, withdraw from the word. I'm sorry. It's not nice for anyone. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived from his scan.]] It's not nice for me either. I'm sorry. No, no, leave the question alone. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived from his scan.]] That's it. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I think it's important to remember that we are on the second of the official mourning days decreed by the Council of Galicia in the face of the deaths of four people during the fire strike this weekend and, therefore, I think it would be important to deal with this matter with due respect. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u175	Quiet, quiet, please. Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u176	We're talking about the business implementation bill, which is what we're dealing with this morning. In the first debate in the plenary we had about this bill, I told them that we have two objectives: firstly, to address the challenges facing us in the global economy in which we live, in which Galicia wants to be present; and secondly, to take advantage of the opportunities presented to us in a context of economic growth such as what we are living in. We must take a step forward to convert Galicia into a place that is able to compete with territories around it and it is attractive to host or attract new industrial projects of quality. That's what this is about, and that's what we're invited to discuss this morning. We remain convinced that there is a message that we must touch on, and we believe that it separates the groups of this Parliament: while the opposition believes that the administration must be a factory of obstacles to economic activity, from the People's Parliamentary Group, what we think is that the administration must be a facilitator and ensure that this activity is carried out with guarantees. The opposition deeply criticized this law even without knowing it, before being presented, because they assume that any decision that is good for our economy will be bad for them. They're installed in that "the worse, the better." That is the speech of the catastrophic opposition we have in Galicia. This bill was born with three fundamental objectives: simplifying, liberalizing and empowering. And we expect them to have immediate effects on our economy; that's the intention. We want to simplify; simplify administrative procedures, to reduce to half the duration of the procedures necessary for the start-up of the business; we want to liberalise sectors, to convert Galicia into an international reference territory; and we want to boost the attraction of companies, with incentives and exemptions, so they can choose our land to move their business project. This bill proposes a wide battery of measures, concrete measures, at all stages of the process of the establishment of a new company in Galicia: firstly, integration of environmental procedures; secondly, improvements in the conditions for the granting of industrial soil; thirdly, development of the partial urbanization of polygons; fourthly, new economic incentives for businesses that choose Galicia to install; and fifthly, dialogue, which already forms the form of councils to relieve the tax burden of new companies that settle in our territory. Ladies and gentlemen, in our competition with neighbouring territories, particularly with northern Portugal, we have focused on the three areas in which they are more competitive than Galicia: I refer to the regulatory restrictions, I refer in time to the start of an activity and I refer to the number of procedures to set up a company. We were told, from the Galician Nationalist Block, about the convenience or not to celebrate this plenary. I have to tell them that we are here for a sense of duty. We are where we have to be, because we are representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks, we have been elected to represent them in the Greek Parliament and, therefore, we have been elected to represent the Greeks and the Greeks with dignity. And that's why I think it's important to recognize that this afternoon's advisor to the Rural Environment, in this House, when it probably takes 72 hours to sleep, working, being in front and directing the devices to fight the fire... directing the devices to fight the fire. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Others what they did was put on the T-shirt, actually. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Noa Presas, you say you're very concerned about the question of mines. The fact is that they are so concerned that they have only tabled an amendment in that sense — only one, one — referring to the Mines Act. Look, mining is an economic activity that you criminalize permanently, but it generates more than 5,000 direct jobs in Galicia. We're talking about 1% of the German GDP and therefore we're going to defend mining, and that's perfectly compatible with defending our environment. Mr. Losada, I have to tell you that there were also fires in Vigo that do not appear in that relationship; of these he did not speak to us in his intervention, and he came here to talk about many subjects: he spoke of Tui's motion of censure and spoke of many subjects. The truth is that I live in Ferrol, a city where, thanks to the Socialist Party, governs a lord who has only 5 concellers in a 25-corporation corporation. So, democratic lessons on motions of censure and who should rule in the councils... well, if you're installed in that theory that it's better to rule those who lose, then you follow. He told us about a lot of subjects, he also told us about privatizations. I'm going to read you a sentence: "The current state of well-being is the result of public-private collaboration." I don't know if you agree... there's no interactivity now... don't you agree? Well, the sentence is from Mr. Caamaño, former Minister of the Zapatero Government. He was his partner on the bench, and so he collected the philosophy of a recently published book entitled Public Services and ideology, of Mr. Caamaño, former socialist minister. Look, you tell us about parliamentary processing. Of course, it turns out that from the Socialist Party, from the opposition benches, it is not understood that a parliamentary group can bring a consensus, dialogue, agreement with the German Government; they don't understand it! We work by hand, parliamentary group, government... I don't know what you look like. Of course, when you were given the opportunity to rule, what they did was that if you were opposed, they were Government in the morning and opposed in the afternoon, and you were used to not cooperating with the Government since the parliamentary group. Look, you weren't able to do it; we, of course, worked co-ordinately. Mr. Conde is a member of the parliamentary group, and this bill — because he has not been warned by the House's legal services — does not require any processing at all. So there were all the reports that had to be in this direction. [[Applause]] Look, the opposition didn't want to talk about this law. You were given a press round on August 11 to see that they were going to vote against. I didn't care! You, on August 11 had already decided that they would vote against, because you are against everything that comes from the People's Party. Fortunately, this is not the whole Socialist Party, and that's why we were able to reach an agreement with Fegamp, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, chaired by a socialist, who has allowed to develop the figure of the "Doing Business Councils", which you criticize here. Fortunately, in the bosom of Fegamp, we were able to reach agreements; here it was impossible. Look, you've tabled a total of 255 amendments, among all opposition groups. Many amendments, which are then left in a few fewer, if we note that, of these amendments, 26 refer to the explanatory statement, not to the text of the law itself; 80 ask to delete articles directly, in whole or in part; and 15 others ask that the deadlines for the proceedings provided for in the law be extended. In a law that aims to reduce bureaucracy, you have tabled amendments to increase bureaucracy. But do you think bureaucracy is a guarantee of something? Do you believe that bureaucracy, the excess of bureaucracy, is absolutely a guarantee of something? Of course not, of course not. What you want is that in Galicia there are obstacles, you block the implementation of new business projects, which would generate new jobs. You're against that; you want Galicia to be a land full of obstacles to the implementation of new business projects. Yes, I said: these amendments, 26 go to the explanatory statement, 80 ask for the total or partial deletion of articles of the law, and 15 others ask that the deadlines of the proceedings be extended. With which, you have presented at least half the amendments with the intention of abrogating this bill which has a very clear intention. Look, however, in front of those minority groups that didn't want dialogue, what there was was a majority who did want to dialogue. We met in the presentation until three times, exchanged transactions and reached many agreements, especially with the Socialist Party; especially with the Socialist Party, which today will not vote in favour of the law. But what I have to say to you is that we proposed 9 transactions, from which you only accepted the PSOE Group 7; BNG and En Marea did not accept what we offer them; and we accept 17 amendments, as presented. This means that we offer you to insert in the text 20% of your proposals for modifying the articulate. Well, indeed, you, of ours, did not accept any; none. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, we accept and we deal with your amendments to the article of principle related to environmental protection, we include amendments from the Socialist Party to request hearings from the councils; yes, we cannot accept all the amendments that you have proposed to us in this respect, because if not, we would increase bureaucracy, and that, of course, is what we do not want. Once again, you want us to go against the spirit of the law that we present. "Doing business councils." We've reached an agreement with Fegamp. I suppose you're against it. The parliamentary group here I objected to what they talked about and what they did from the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. We are very pleased with that agreement, and now what we expect is that there are many municipalities that adhere to that framework according to which you refuse. Look, this was about political opportunism in connection with the fires, before Mr. Sánchez left — I suppose he will accompany Mr. Pablo Iglesias on his trip through Galicia. This is opportunism. Look, I'm going to read you a tweet: "Nuñez's non-policies incinerate the mountains and also citizens alive." [[Murmurs.]] Those who don't want to use fires wrote this on their Twitter account. What he did was his ideologist, Mr. Jose Manuel Beiras, yesterday afternoon. That's your model. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand you don't like me telling you about it, but it's just that you brought this matter to the House. Returning to the law, look, I have to tell you that the amendments established with the joint environmental treatment provided for in the future law are totally respectful of Community regulations, so there will be no reduction or reduction in environmental guarantees. The approach of the Environment Council to this text is equal to that provided for in European legislation in this respect and, in no case, they undermine or undermine the protection of environmental and landscape values, as defended by the Tide Party and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. It is intended to implement maximum effectiveness, that is, in the administrative processing of plans, programs and projects, avoiding repetition of undue procedures and delays. The mayors of your parties agree in this vision, and I regret that you do not see it like this, but, of course, the mayors of your parties are against it. One argument that is used from The Tides, when they want to speak in full, is that the law reinforces the right to expropriation; and it is not true, it is not true! The law does not reduce environmental protection or our heritage; it does not change public utility considerations, and much less strengthens the right to expropriation. I regret that since the parties on the left would make a catastrophic opposition, against absolutely everything. Look, what you can't talk about is the relocation of companies, which is what you're going to talk about in tomorrow's control session to Mrs. Ana Pontón, and voting twenty-four hours earlier against a law that precisely aims to attract new industrial projects to Galicia. That's the great contradiction of the Galician Nationalist Block. They say in the morning that they are against the relocation of companies and in the afternoon they do absolutely nothing to make Galicia an attractive territory. You're still committed to this absurdity. We, of course, will continue to work to attract industrial projects to Galicia in this process of economic recovery. We are convinced that the companies they are looking for are stability, political stability, economic stability, and they can make it clear that, if Galicia is chosen, they will find it. Here we are lucky to have a consolidated government, a stable parliamentary majority, which is not kidnapped by delusions of any radical minority; that doesn't happen in Galicia. We are lucky to have a government that will not embark on any independentist adventure, Mrs. Presas, that there is no legal certainty or institutional stability, although part of the opposition I am sure you would like, and here we are lucky to have a government that, with its actions, will not end up trying to throw them out of Galicia. We want companies to come to Galicia. His model, the nationalist model, the secessionist model is that companies march. We want companies to come, companies to set up, because those companies that will generate are jobs, jobs that are becoming more and more quality, more stable. And, therefore, in view of those who say no to everything, those who want to break up with everything, those who want to close companies and end our institutions in Galicia, what we propose to the Greeks is to say again that yes to growth, yes to employment, yes to economic activity, yes to institutional stability and yes to compliance with the laws and constitutional framework. That's the model we're moving in and we're going to keep working for Galicia to remain a land of opportunity. You can work on the side of the government, or you can be standing constantly in opposition -- that's evidence that you know how to do it very well -- but we, of course, have heard your hand so that this law also made it their own and, of course, we have the feeling that you've lost the opportunity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u177	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u178	I'm a little disappointed, I thought Mr. Tallato would take some picture, I had the pen to sign it. I'm going to begin my intervention, because we're talking a lot about freedoms and so on, because it also conveys support, on behalf of the Nationalist Block of Wales, to the leaders of the ANC and Omnium, who are persecuted, literally, for manifesting themselves and being independent. [[Applause]] And since we're talking about tweets, I'm also going to talk about tweets. I'm not going to go into any tweets I read there, but I do thank all of that counter-information network that I've been informed and informed of many fires that Galician Board didn't talk about; tweets like BrifLaza, like the Moroccan Brigade, like a firefighter's diary, that were real information networks when neither the operations nor the emergency operating information mechanisms, nor the Galician Board, reported on some fire. Maybe they could also take advantage of the fact that in this law they take all kinds of laws and mix them under this Frankenstein law, and since they talk about the wind register of Galicia, the business land census and so on, because they also make this law a record of fires as appropriate. They have some example before you entered the government, and so on, just like, because we wouldn't have to say here that other municipalities like Viana do Bolo, which is a different municipality from Gudina, even though press notes don't understand it, were actually burning up too, with fire near the houses. By going to the more specific questions of this law, for Mr. Tellado talked about a lot of things, and something said for sure: is that we actually speak of two totally opposite models; one is the People's Party, which embodies this law, which is the most savage neoliberalism at the service of companies that decide the Council of the Union or the Directorate-General of Mines, which is going to be the one who will command the most; or ours, and that we transmit through our amendments, which pushes a shift of more intense productive model into activities of added value, in activities that promote research, and more sustainable and with public participation as an engine, that is transparent and that enhances our potentials, like our mount. Also, by going to add some questions, in the other plenary Mr. Tellado came without looking at the updated industrial production index, and today he came without looking at the employment data of the mining sector, but I have them here, nothing happens. I also love you saying we criminalized mining. For you, the caricature of the vision of the industrial model of the opposition is that we want to close everything. Of course, that's why it was a councillor driven by the Nationalist Block of Wales, in a bipartisan government, with another political organization, who passed that first mining law of an autonomous government. Finally, of course, there is a bit of a model between seeking a consensus, seeking dialogue with all the sectors involved, including the ecologists, and reaching major agreements for regulation. [[Applause]] Because, look, no one denies there will be issues to update. In fact, it's been a long time, and there are procedures that have to be worked out, but, for example, for agitating procedures can simply get an idea of our amendments, betting on that single window, which could be done even without drafting a law, and also equipping more workers and workers, because otherwise there will be no one to do those processes. And also see what development model they want, of course, because if in 2009 sectors within the extractive industry, such as other extractive industries and extractive industry support activity, there was a cut in jobs of 40% and 55%, because it will tell me; then it must be that failure has been for the last few years. Finally, it must be that you the model that you want, instead of reaching big agreements and seeing when some sort of extractive industry is compensated for, is simply doing like that picture that circulated these days — and fortunately Tourism has already withdrawn from the mine on Mount Neme as a great tourist attraction. But we believe in another model, where there is something else in our country that mines the open sky. By commenting on an important issue, look, they don't twist the Fegamp argument, really, because they have no credibility at all. You know, they got off the press round and that looks like that's one more step in their law, but in fact, there's no big change in that protocol, and it doesn't mean that Fegamp in unity supports this law. It's a question that you took advantage of, in addition, of a name that God gives me the cosmopalism of Doing Business! And by stating also some of the absences, there are many absences in this law, and unfortunately they haven't tried to supplement either by the amendments of the opposition groups. And we insist: there's still no effort for R+D+i; not a single concrete measure, as much as they disguise it as a law against relocation, to prevent the transfer of companies to Portugal, or for those of the Welsh matrix that have moved in recent years to return to our country. They also limit the economic incentive to four grants and the municipalities to lower their taxes, and that is where the economic promotion activity of the Galician Union ended. Even the bet on an intervention would be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u180	...that facilitates access to credit, which is one of the difficulties of our economic fabric. Nor are there measures to close the productive cycles in Galicia. No measures for any other forest management model that is not simply allowing indiscriminately all types of stalks, all types of plantations. There is no concrete measure to establish quality employment, to intervene in the fact that jobs that are believed to be quality, not terribly fragmented.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u182	And, therefore — Mr President, this law — I insist — is going to pose a further threat to our territory, a further threat to Galicia following an evolution of an absolutely colonial territory, and we will not allow it. This is a critical people who deserve, want and will demand another destiny, and we'll prove it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Tellado, of course the Galician Socialist Party does not want to close any company. I repeat that — no, it goes like this in a generic way — I don't want to close any company. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I actually had to do – I was already a Member in this Parliament in 2006 – is what is being renewed – a viscera effort quite intense enough not to behave as the People's Party did in August and September 2006. [[Laughter]] I just talked about an isolated village in San Juan de Río. [[Applause]] It's hard work for me. I can assure you, Mr. Tellado. But when you spoke today about the "how much worse, better," you really have to have moral relativism! — by saying it in a fine and elegant way, as well as in a British club—, moral relativism is "the worse, the better." Look, in Ferrol I don't know very well what's going on. What I know is that the Galician Socialist Party is not going around preaching that it has to rule the most voted list. Therefore, I believe that, in this matter, silence, because I repeat again: the mayor of Tui has two concellers. What did you promise him to abstain from Tui Mayorship? You, I know your political altruism is not one of the defining characteristics. So what did I ask? And he didn't answer me, don't answer me with Ferrol. Yeah, I'm answering to you, I'm on exactly the subject. [[Murmurs.]] And then, hey, a press conference on August 11th. If the law was registered on 28, this humble deputy in 13 days because I am able to read it and even almost understand it. Because it's very easy to understand, Mr. Tellado, it's very easy to understand. There is only one peculiar question: that three-quarters of the text are provisions; I am neither a jurist nor a juridical, but it is a peculiar bill. And look, the bureaucracy knows what it is? It's control and public guarantees, it's avoiding Sotos del Real Corporation; that's what bureaucracy is, and I defend it. Because the alternative to bureaucracy is shame, and I condemn them. That is what bureaucracy is for this humble Member and for the Socialist Party of Galicia. Therefore, I think it remains more or less clear. I've been to the second point before, because the truth is, you have a certain tendency to rhetoric. I move on to the third, which has to do with industrial management. And here I'm just going to say four programs and the level of execution, which I'm not going to repeat; I'm sure, yes, sir, counselor, of course, I know they're all multi-yearly. In physical capital, industrial floor; in human capital, training of employees and R+D+i; and in financial capital, the Igape itself. I don't think you need to tell him more, do you, Counselor? I think you understand perfectly what I mean. In the amendment groups, you actually accepted the two amendments of the People's Party. We accepted some transactions that we understood improved the legal text, because I want the laws passed by this Parliament to go out the best for Galicia, even if they were not mine, do you understand, Mr Tellado? That's the difference. That's why the Secretary General of the PSdeg didn't put moccasins or camping hoses, because we love this country. And of course we accept transactions, because yes, because they improve the law, but the whole of the law, the economic model that reflects this law, is not the economic model of the Socialist Party of Galicia. An economic model that speaks of industrial deployment which basically focuses on three sectors: mining, the wind sector — which there is much to talk about the wind sector, without any doubt — and what it has to do with forest policy — I hope so far continues on the subject — and that when it talks about industrial soil, I repeat — the ball to the municipalities, is not the model of an industrial implementation law for Galicia. And it's not, among other things, because it doesn't have the slightest budgetary commitment, neither of ex ante or ex post control, it's rhetorical, it's what's allowing the counsellor to go out and give systematic press rounds. The truth is that the level of publicity and propaganda of this Council is truly amazing. I have here a press release from Igape, October 6, 2017: "The Board informs entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs about new innovative financial instruments." What criterion did you follow to invite them, because the call wasn't published in the DOG? It would be very interesting to know, wouldn't it? Or invited all entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in the autonomous community? I think it would be good if you and Mr. Tellado had thought about it. It was then published in a media communication that aid with names and surnames that are not yet published in the DOG, with names and surnames of companies, of accounts, which are not published in the DOG. And that seems reasonable to you? Yeah? I call it advertising and propaganda, I call it a wasteful use of public funds... yes, yes, absolutely, counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u186	But should you, Mr President, not think that before the medals are put, you should be published in the DOG? Do you think I'm saying something rude? Hey, I honestly don't think so. I insist: with names and surnames. I'm not going to say the names of the companies here, because I really think it's obscene, but before it's published in the DOG. And, by the way, we have also — and I have finished with this — the last debate of the state of Autonomy, between the meeting and the presentation meeting, indeed we have had three meetings of the presentation, finally, a law of a large number of articles and last dispositions, because I don't know if there have been many, in any case, three, indeed. In the debate of the state of autonomy, Mr. President of the Union: more down in loans in the last two years than in the history of the last ten. Counsellor, do you send the President the same sheets that he sends us to Parliament? Because I don't know if there's version A and version B. You send this to Mr. Feijóo? Because if you send this to him and he can read a painting, he's a liar. Of course, if you say that the leases and loans of the last two years are more than the last ten, it's fake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u187	Mr. Losada, look at the weather, look at the time, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u188	'Finished.' You are magnanimous, as always, as almost always...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u189	As always, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u190	...like almost always.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u191	As always, Mr. Losada, thank you. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Losada, your time is up. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u192	I was lucky not to be in Mr. Tellado's intervention, but I'm convinced he didn't talk about the Bipartite or anything that didn't have to do with the Business Initiatives Promotion Act. I am very sure, as almost always, that Mr. Tellado has made a very constructive intervention and that he has given much to the country in its role. I'm going to talk about why we oppose this law, as I've tried to speak before, because I could say that we oppose this law because of the implications in the production model and the creation of low-value jobs that it causes. I could talk about the environmental consequences that it causes, but I also have the right to speak about the forest model for what it is, and the consequences it causes, too, of increasing the risk of fires, and that's what I was trying to do. All I can't afford to do that is injustice and it's the exercise of force without applying justice. I was trying to explain it and the president cut me off because I know there are messages that they don't like to hear, but that's what I'm going to try to do. I said it — not just me — and we spoke in the committee debate on this matter, and we have the right to focus also on the model that causes and that it deepens this proposal for the promotion of business initiatives, because this law, as we have already said in the previous plenary session of consideration, is made to the dictates of companies of the electric oligopolie, of companies of the mining oligopolie and of companies of the forest oligopolie, more specifically of Ence, which is the one that is completely conditioning not only the situation of the Pontevedra River but our forest policy, and we say it here in every plenary session and we have always been allowed to say it. This is the forest policy in this country. [[Applause]] And I also want to say that these companies and these activities any person with two fingers knows that they need to occupy large areas of our territory, in addition to always with the help of the Administration, which uses the declaration of public utility to occupy that territory. We know that these activities lead to the abandonment of the rural environment, one of the fundamental causes of certain fires that are happening these days in this country. Or can anyone come here dare to say that the abandonment of agricultural activity in Ourense province has nothing to do with what these kind of fires happen? Or can anyone here say that reducing the distance from the security lines to the houses is receipt, when we see that the fire now reaches the door of the houses? And you made those decisions, and you don't like to hear the truth. Because it abhors incompetence, outrages the lack of foresight, which has to have political responsibilities. They have to assume political responsibilities for what happened these days. But what is most outrage is the sovereignty of an absolute majority useless when it arises from the opposition in recent years fundamental debates to actually and structurally analyze the causes of why, year after year, the drama of fires persists in this country. And you have denied that useless sovereignty of an absolute useless majority. [[Applause]] The fact that they have 41 Members does not indicate that they have good policies at all. There's evidence. With you, since you rule, this country has lost a huge percentage of useful agrarian surface for illegal reforestation of land, which were natural firewalls for the advance of the fires. Those natural fireflies no longer exist because of their policies. When we said it here, you didn't say anything. All experts agree that an abandoned mountain is much easier than burning than a mountain that is careful and that gives performance to people, and to overcome that abandonment of the mountain is fundamental to the joint management of the forest surface, and you have proposed a formula, which was the sulphur, criticizing the Bipartite tool, the uxfor, which had much more success than its own, but they posed theirs, legitimately, and once seven years ago, three constitutions. It's a real failure. And whenever we come up with solutions to a basic problem to end the fires in this country, or if fires are not a threat to people, you have totally despised our proposals, but they haven't put any other proposal either. Sovereignty was his answer, the most absolute sovereignty, the farewell to the honest debate this country needs to put an end to the problem of fires. What you don't need is the statements Mr. Feijó made when he was in the opposition. What you need is an honest debate and recognize the reality of this country, its repeated failures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u194	...in the management of the territory, in the forest policy, also in the policy of the fragmentation of the Fire Extinction Service, because I suppose we can also say that you are in Santiago's Trial #3 for hiring helicopters to do business with fire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u195	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u196	It's an indignity. You have political responsibility in what happened these days, and if you have some decency, do something self-criticism, recognize and assume political responsibilities and we start having an honest debate. We're not in a position of absolute truth, but we're willing to talk about matters with rigour, you're proud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u197	Mr. Sánchez, you've finished your time, excuse me a moment, you've finished your time. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] All right, time's up, all right, all right. Mr. Sánchez, your time is up. I call you by order, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, excuse me for a moment. I call it in order for a second time. No, no, forgive me. It's over. It's over. Look, I call it the second time and it means that, if I call it back to order, you have to leave the full. Please don't make me go back to stages I didn't want in this Parliament. It's over. [[Applause]] And, by the way, you'll never hear of me or see violence in me, make it clear to you, eh!, never. I was educated for something else, all the less for the ring, for the fight. So I don't like him making that kind of reference. No, it's done, it's done, and we're done with the debate. We shall end this debate in peace, which we have guests. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Yes, Mr. Losada? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But the debate is not over. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez says he is not in possession of absolute truth. After seeing him and after listening to him, imitating Mr. Beiras, who would say so! [[Applause]] Look, I'm curious about the concept of democracy that you have, because I'm proposing to debate without listening to what the representative of the majority group says. That you've preferred — now you're leaving — to debate without listening to what the other defends, which is indeed a good exercise of sovereignty. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, be careful, have a rival who wants to occupy his chair, be very careful. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Sánchez just made a curious pirouette, yes, yes, he blamed a law that hasn't been approved by the fires of last weekend. Well, look, that's what you're dealing with. We will continue to work from the institutions to defend Galicia, defend Galicia from the pyromans who burn the mountain, and also from the Pyromans who seek political income by also wearing shirts, indeed. [[Applause]] Look, I think here's what bothers them is that Galicia's doing well, here's what bothers them is that Galicia's doing well. The Greek economy is rising above 3%; export record beats, around 10% annually; we have less unemployment than in October 2016, that in October 2015, than in October 2014, 2013, 2011, 2010, 2009; we have more members of Social Security for more than five years; a Galicia whose industrial production grows more than the average of the state; Galicia also has records in the field of tourism. Galicia is advancing, and this is the stage of turning Galicia into a land that can attract industrial projects to settle in our community. That's our goal, the goal of the Greek Government, the goal of most of us in this House, and you may be either in favour or against it, but in any case, they withdraw and the Greeks are perfectly attentive to what is the situation of each one. We were told by Mr. Losada of bureaucracy. Look, you're clear that they want more bureaucracy. They want more bureaucracy to stop everything: so in their amendments what they propose was to extend deadlines, and we say no, what we want is to reduce administrative processing deadlines, ensuring all the environmental requirements currently in force. So less bureaucracy and agility and efficiency and efficiency. And look, don't insinuate us about the interests of certain people, because I have to remind you that the two previous general secretaries of your party are charged. So we don't accept insinuations of any kind. You were talking about public-private collaboration. It's just that you guys don't have credibility. You don't agree with what Mr. Caamaño stands for. You were the ones who said the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro was going to be private; now everybody can see that it's public, because you go there with your health card and caring; Spain's best health is in that hospital. And we don't say it, tell it the vigues, the neighbors and neighbors of Vigo's health area that are cared for in that hospital. That's the reality, so the surveys reflect it. That hospital that was going to be private and eventually it's public. But they don't have credibility because it turns out that we're going to charge for using hospital chairs, and we're going to pay doctors for discharges. Look, people don't believe them. Do you know what the problem with PSdEG-PSOE is? That they are still installed in it is not at all, that you know that this law is positive for Galicia, but that Mr. Caballero — the other Knight — says that we must keep up the current of voting not at all, but the mayors, also the Socialist Party, who know how important it is to attract business projects, through the Fegamp, vote in favour of this agreement to encourage the installation of companies in our councils, that Doing Business agreement. Look, you guys want to stop Galicia, they're against everything, that's the motto of the opposition. They want to ban labour reforms that have allowed us to create jobs in our country; they want to repeal pension reform; they want the health law of Galicia to be withdrawn, which is the one that guarantees the comarcas hospitals of our community. You're against everything. Now they want to eliminate concerts with educational centers and health centers, those that you could when Mr. Lago was a member of the German Government, he collaborated in that government. They're against the transport plan, because they have interests they haven't been able to explain yet. You are also against this law of promotion of entrepreneurship in Galicia. You're against everything that requires progress. And you're against companies. You are the ones who want to close Ence, those who want to close Elnosa, those who want to close Reganosa, those who want to close the thermal power station of the bridges, those who want to close the thermal power plant of Sabón. They're against the technology of Rozas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u200	They're against Citroën's enlargement. You're against Galicia's advance. And that's why, precisely for that reason, when the Greeks are asked what they want, what they want is that the PP is in front of the government and what they want is that the Power Tides are in opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u201	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u202	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting firstly on the proposal for a law. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Bill, of popular legislative initiative, of parental co-responsibility and of family relationships in the cessation of coexistence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 6. The voting is positive. Therefore, this bill is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u203	This proposal will then follow its parliamentary procedure. We are now voting on the amendments to the whole of the return to the Galician Port Bill. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to the total refund of G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Port Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u204	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the Galician Port Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u205	And we voted for the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to the total refund of G.P. From Marea to the Galician Port Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u206	Therefore, the Galician Port Bill continues its processing. We are now voting on the Ditame issued by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] Mr. Losada, what did you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u207	It's just that before, overwhelmed by his magnanimity — at the expense of time — I forgot to ask for a separate vote on the amendments of the En Marea groups and the Galician Nationalist Block, which I can only say. In the case of the Galician Nationalist Block there would be two votes: one, with amendments 1, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 14 and 20; and, on the other hand, all the rest. And in the Marea Group, on the one hand, to 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 26, 31, 41, 43, 45, 58, 60 and 86; and, on the other hand, all the rest. You already have the same data on your Table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u208	Thank you. We therefore begin by voting on amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, in particular numbers 1, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 14 and 20. We vote. Amendment Nos 1, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 14 and 20 G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego to the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u209	We voted for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block to the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia not incorporated into the Commission's dictation, except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u210	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Socialists to the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u211	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. Firstly, Amendments 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 26, 31, 41, 43, 45, 58, 60 and 86. We vote. Amendment Nos 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 26, 31, 41, 43, 45, 58, 60 and 86 G.P. of En Marea to the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u212	And now we are voting on the rest of the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. In Marea to the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia not incorporated in the Commission's ruling, except those already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u213	We voted on the Commission's ruling with the amendments incorporated. We vote. Commission 6a, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the Proposal for a Law to Promote the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u214	The Ditame of this committee is therefore approved and the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia is adopted. Institutional statement on the occasion of International Day for the Eradication of Poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u215	And now I'm reading an institutional statement... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I read, this is all on tape. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I read what you put here... we all know that there isn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to the institutional statement. There are our guests there, and therefore we are going to read this institutional statement, which is important. Institutional statement on the occasion of International Day for the Eradication of Poverty "On the occasion of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, the Galician Parliament and the honourable Members who represent Greek citizenship want to reiterate our unanimous commitment to 2010 and once again remind us of the urgent need for further progress in the fight against extreme poverty in which more than 1,400 million people still live today. We also want to recognize the effort and feel of the Greeks and Greeks who, in defending human rights, strive to conquer a fairer world and struggle against inequality. Growth and economic recovery, although they are allowing to recover some of the policies and budgets of social inclusion or employment, will not be effective until they provide a stable guarantee of their right to a decent life for all and every one of the Galicians and Greeks who in 2016 were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, which was 25.4% of the population. We want to acknowledge the effort and solidarity of much of the people of Greece in the worst years of the economic crisis: families, neighbors and, in particular, our older people. We know of their weakness and the serious difficulties they would have to face in facing another crisis. We are aware of the obligation to continue to move forward in our social model, in which no one is allowed to stand aside and where constitutional rights and social inclusion are guaranteed from the public authorities. In particular, it is urgent and vital for the future of Galicia to avoid intergenerational transmission of poverty. We have to keep fighting to prevent 80 percent of the children and children living in poor families today from suffering from the rest of their lives, as well as their children and children. The people themselves at risk of poverty, and under the slogans as "people, first" or "one person, not file," summarize their demands in three principles: fighting the causes of poverty and inequality, far from existentialism and ensuring equal rights and active social inclusion based on guaranteed income through employment or minimum axile income; commitment in budgets and planning, in the medium and long term; and political and technical coordination between administrations and specialized organizations that drastically reduce bureaucracy. We commemorate this day when we watch a growing evolution of prejudices, stereotypes, intolerance and even contempt for people at risk of poverty and exclusion. Hate crimes in Spain have increased by almost 93% from 2011 to 2015. On social networks only between 2015 and 2016 hate crimes grew by 82%, according to the State Attorney General's Office. They name us like racism, xenophobia and aporophobia — hate people in poverty — are especially incidents. In this last case 1 out of every 5 homeless people was physically assaulted at least once, and 1 out of every 3 was insulted or harassed. People are not guilty of their poverty, they are not children and their mothers and parents; neither are they the sound of their exclusion for persons with disabilities, migrants, refugees or the Roma community, girls and young people protected or deprived of liberty. No one is guilty of their suffering; women are not victims of gender-based violence or anyone because of their sexual orientation or identity. There are no religions that defend terrorism or violence. No one is useless, whether young or unemployed, retired or homeless. The people who have suffered and reported these and many other lies at the last Romanian seminary of inclusive citizen participation, or those who have claimed that the most dangerous of prejudices is when you don't believe it yourself, they're not alone. The public authorities have the responsibility to ensure equality for all citizens, putting in place the measures necessary to reduce social inequalities, combat discrimination and promote respect, tolerance and active participation of all people. We also have the commitment to disseminate and focus on positive experiences and on examples of normalized harmony and coexistence, which are the majority, avoiding the spread of a biased and non-real vision of people living situations of social exclusion. On this International Day for the Eradication of Poverty we want to make a call not to fall into the ignorance of prejudices and take a step towards the urgent inclusion of people who are not on equal terms for the achievement of a dignified life." Thank you all very much. [[Assentment.]] No more, we'll stop the meeting until 4 p.m., 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u216	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u217	As agreed at tomorrow's meeting, we moved on to the next meeting, which replaces the one scheduled on the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor of the Rural Environment, on his own request, to report the situation of the fires in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u218	The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u219	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Let me begin this speech today by recalling four names. These are the names, which you have to face, the four people that this episode of incendiary activity led to. I'm Maximina, Angelina, Alberto and Marcelino. For them goes our memory, and from here, apart from the memory and our sadness for the loss, the certainty that Galicia will never forget them. [[Applause]] All Galicia is in mourning, and especially Vigo's neighbours, Nigrán's neighbors and Avia's Carballeda's neighbours. Once again, and as I did just a month ago, I also want in this intervention to have my words of thanks, in my name, in the name of the Government and in the name of Galicia, to the professionals who in the most extreme conditions have guarded and continue to watch for the safety of all the Greeks and the Greeks where forest fires and non-forest fires refer to. I asked the last-minute part to let you know what the arresting situation in Galicia is. In Galicia we now have 55 fires —17 assets, 8 stabilized and 30 controlled —. In Lugo we have 2 assets in Cervantes, 2 stabilized and 5 controlled; in total, 9 fires. In Ourense we have 27 fires; 11 are active; 3, stabilized; and 13, controlled. In Pontevedra we have 19 fires; 4 are active; 3, stabilized; and 12, controlled. In addition to all this, and after giving them the situation that we now have in Galicia, I mean that, apart from the collective, we also have to thank all those neighbors and neighbors and companies who collaborated in the extinction work, and all those people who helped defend the lives of the people and their most loved ones, as their homes are. Moreover, thanks also to the local administrations who assisted and even to those administrations who, without being affected, made themselves available to the Government of Greece, at the disposal of all Galicia, and arrived at means in behalf of those who had problems. All of them must add the state's security forces and bodies and the Emergency Military Unit, who were able to serve David to confront a Goliath who were the fires, driven by the wind and hands of people who wanted evil for Galicia. In this key is one of the lines and themes of the Conseilerie do Medio Rural and also of the whole of Galician society. Galicia doesn't burn, Galicia is set on fire, and that's why I repeat that every intended fire is an attack. It's an attack on the countryside, it's an attack on the environment, it's an attack on the economy, it's an attack on the animals. But above all, above all, it's an attack on the most precious thing we have, most importantly, that are the lives of people. So we were able to check it out sadly in the past few days, and not only in Galicia. That's why I want to join here my voice and feeling to communities that are also experiencing it wrong, as is the case with Asturias, as is the case with Leon, as is the case with Cantabria; and, above all, to those who have also suffered human losses, as it is in the neighbouring country, our brothers in Portugal, who in this sad time will see a hundred dead. Dessolation, anguish, indignation, endless sadness... few words to define a feeling that has accompanied me since every fire started and becomes anguish and pain since I met the deaths of the four Greeks in hell that never had to take place on our lands in Galicia. In this way, I have to make my own the words of the President of the Council of Galicia: "Galice does not deserve to cause us so much pain, because Galicia does not burn alone, Galicia burns for herself." Ladies and gentlemen, no one has ever hidden the intent of most of the fires that occur. I think it's good to relativize the activity of incendiary or often disguise it, when what we're talking about is unique and exclusively incendiary terrorism. Because that's what it's all about, with no bags and no inks, and we don't have to beg when we say it. As such terrorists must be treated, as such terrorists must be denounced, and also those who use the fire for apocalyptic purposes, as seen in recent days, must be judged. Those of us who live in rural areas know that this omerta works and lives. Those of us who live and feel rural know the importance of neighborhood and team in groups. Those of us who live, feel and want rural areas — but not just rural ones, because we saw that it not only affected rural areas but it affected cities and affected metropolitan areas — we have to take a step forward and make a common front against those who plant fire. Because a fire, no matter what forest, a fire in an urban setting or a fire in any park within a city, pursues nothing but a lot of damage. And that fire, in addition, in conditions of wind, heat and lack of rain, is ultimately a murder activity. I say this because, in addition to the sad losses of human lives, these terrorists will be confronted, they have to face day by day, the extinction teams, and they will be able to save many lives. Believe me, if it weren't for them, this would be a real hecatombe. They're people with a great value, they're people with a great heart, they're people with a lot of dedication. But there's also something very clear: they're also people who have children, who have a life, and therefore they play it every day. It's been played this weekend. That's why I want to convey my gratitude, and thanks, I believe that of all of you here, for your professionalism, to the entire forest fire crew, to all of the volunteers, to the National Police, to the Civil Guard, to the local police, to the UME, to the people of the crews of the hydroplanes and helicopters, to the urban and the comarcas firemen, to the officers and technicians of the Galician Union, to the health personnel, and to all of those who made it possible that this might have stopped and not been the most. [[Applause]] Go forward a data which I come here continually. This data is as follows: 75% of the fires are provoked; that is, three out of four are intentional. And this weekend I believe 100 percent of the fires were intended. This is the heart of the matter that hits us here today. Our community has suffered an unprecedented incendiary attack in recent hours. It's a real confrontation and an outrage that has been made starting from exceptional, totally exceptional conditions, extreme weather conditions, with strong winds, high temperatures and a humidity below 30%. It was an incendiary activity, and this has a known but also exceptional result. I'm talking about the fires that, in an unprecedented event, even the Mine River in its final stretch, and not isolated, being repeated and on several occasions, with kilometric fronts coming from the neighbouring country, which was also really going wrong; that was asking us for help when, in fact, we needed everything we had here. Let's give it to her when we see each other with a chance to do it. Those fronts were not just by the river Mine. They also took us to the front of much of the Jurés, in the town halls of Muños and Lobios. These elements constituted an ingenious attack that forced up to the limit the device used. The device that we had is next, I want you to comment on it now. It was 350 brigades, 250 motorcycles, 40 paces and 20 air vehicles with support and input from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food and the Environment, which had troops in Galicia and had them in Asturias, Cantabria and León. In total, we had 5,600 troops during the weekend. In order to complete this operation, more than 600 UME personnel were mobilized, the Emergency Military Unit -- including from Valencia, which, in an unprecedented manner, brought them on a plane to be more agile. They also supported 18 UME bombs and 6 nodrices, and even two air vehicles themselves, helicopters coming from the bases located in Murcia, Toledo and Guadalajara. All this operation, the largest that ever had at this time of year and one of the greatest in history, had to face ongoing and simultaneously multiplying outbreaks in a matter of minutes. The mayors kept calling, because if there were five fires, at ten minutes they had 15 lights in their parishes. It was common to see how alarms and fires were leaping in neighbouring municipalities with little difference of time; especially in the last hours of Sunday afternoon and early Sunday night. It serves as an example: Sunday, from 6:00 till 12 p.m., there were 68 new fires; to reflect and understand the fire not only as an act of fire, it's a criminal activity. That's why they have to understand that our priority was at all times to protect the nucleus of population and the very life of neighbors. For this reason, 19 situations 2 have been decreed or, in the same way, the mobilization of media close to their homes. But believe me it was 19 and they could be more, because there were moments when it didn't even take time to make the relevant decrees. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that the first attack on fire must be referred to by a progressive effort of the media and a relief from it. So that situation of release was a continuous movement and an operation that lasted 72 hours. In terms of fires, it must be noted that the provinces that were affected were four, but it is true that with a very different intensity. The Coruña has registered 34 fires, although of lesser size and virulence than the rest of the provinces. The provinces of Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra were the most affected, with 68, 70 and 44 fires respectively in less than 24 hours. In many cases they forced the eviction of various nuclei of population. As a matter of fact, I'll tell you that in Ourense, in 48 hours, there are 104 fires. Even so, I tell them, so that we can reflect on and see the capacity of our operation, the organizational capacity of the parishes and villages, that 64% of the fires that took place between Friday and Monday are in contact. And that was thanks to the work of the entire operation. I mean, 177 fires were stopped before the wind understood them. The burned surface of these 276 fires in our autonomous community, and despite the fact that they're now doing the valuations, believe me that it's going to be higher than the whole burnout during the year. There was a very important task, and in that work, which we sought that had been attended at all times, there were conditions derived from the circumstances in which to fight. However, to be ready for the operation, to be prepared and to have a positive evolution of the situation in the year 2017 in Galicia, it's not a sign that we're slowing down and taking us forward, but that we're working and getting stronger and stronger. And I'll tell them Galicia was quiet, we were happy, and I think most citizens too. And even though there were lots of fires, we ended the summer season on September 30 with a very different situation: it would burn 44% less of the surface than in 2016. I mean, they burned 9,000 acres less. In addition, the summer balance, which was the summer itself, that is, the period from July 1 to September 30, will be released with a number of fires 20% less than in the previous year, and an area, where summer is, 70% less than the previous year. That is, in summer, 6,000 hectares were burned less than in 2016. This data shows that the operation coordinated by the Galician Union was able to successfully cope with a summer that was extraordinarily warm and dry, with conditions that are among the toughest in the last century where climateology is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of water and unprecedented temperatures on these dates, along with Hurricane Ophelia, with cracks of more than 100 kilometers per hour, have completed circumstances that are no longer summer, but belong to autumn. This was the stage, the stage until recently, until September 30, but some actors were missing. That actor was the increase in in incendiary activity. To give you an idea, if in a complicated summer -- and by analyzing the summers and the middles -- the number of fires that occur is, by day, between 40 and 50, these days have resulted in between 125 and 135 fires a day. Add the conditions, let's put this figure on the table, and you'll see how any word about this incendiary murder activity falls short. Who plants fire in this situation knows it's going to hurt. What I don't know is if they knew they'd cause so much harm. What outrages me is that tonight still in Ourense there was a fire. Whoever does this knows he's playing with human lives. He played with human lives but still held tonight in Ourense. And against them I think we must all be, and we must all make it together. The most precious thing we have, no doubt, are our lives. For such work, those who pass on Saturday, like many of you, on Sunday, Monday and this very morning through the roads and places where some of the levels 2 have been decreed these days, know that we reaffirm our will and resolve to carry this struggle to the latest consequences. I'm saying that because the German Government has been stepping on each and every one of the affected areas. He was in Cervantes, in Donís, in Noceda, in Friol, in Angeriz, in Monforte, in Chavaga, in Panton, in Cangas, in Boborás, in Albarellos, Parade do Sil — in the Place of Paradellas — this very morning in San Cristovo de Cea, in Baños de Molgas, in Betán, Chardrexa de Queixa — in the Place of Chabeán — Paderne de Allariz — in Cantona — in the Town Hall of Lobios — in Araúxo —; in Ponteas, Padron, Salvador do Mine, in Pesqueiras, in the Town Hall of Gondomar, in Morgadas, in the Town Hall of the Neves, in the same Town Hall, in capital; in Baiona, in Baín; in the Town Hall of Nigrán, in Paradela; in Boiro, he was in Cures. And in many other affected areas that are not rural but that have been affected by fires, as was the case with Vigo. From here I would like to thank all the mayors and all the mayors of these councils — with many of them, or with almost all of them, I could speak in these days — their support, their neighbors' support, their dedication; and also — you have to say — to many of you, to many of the Members and Members who are here and who have made you at our disposal for failing your help, giving names of companies, saying how you created that we could act, even by sending messages from different points. Many thanks to you and those you couldn't call or even you couldn't answer. Thank you for knowing you've been there, at least walking through the sites. That's actually to be available to Galicia, which is what we're for. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we may have provision for fire-care, but what we don't have is for provision to contain these fire-fighters; that is, to fight against those who plant the fire next to the houses, as we do?, to fight against those who do it at various points at once, against those who do it even near where they have to take off the air media, against those who do it in a oak house, against those who do it in a public park of any town or large city. But action must be taken. We all need each other, or we'll get on the side of the Greeks or, if not, we'll be wrong. But you will understand that the prediction of an adverse phenomenon and a forecast of a situation that was not going to be good ends up completely overflowing. The Rural Environment Council in previous days — and I will now tell you — decided to adopt an emergency statement to strengthen the forest firefighting services that went beyond any level that had previously been reached at this time, and that arrived at numbers only at this high-risk moment. Taking into account the adverse climatic conditions and the high incendiary activity recorded since the beginning of October. And, above all, it was done before the arrival of this wave of fires. This statement assumes in practice that the necessary procedures have been enabled to strengthen air media with the recruitment of three more helicopters, one coordination and two extinctions; to strengthen land-extinction personnel with the commencement of the work of the 125 Seaga brigades, which is 8% of the operation that Galicia has, and the 26 Tragsa. That's the only way they could have those means of fire these days. And so they will be this season; at least until October 31st. In this sense, last Friday 13 and given the changes in weather forecasting, the very dry vegetation, the change in IRDI forecasting that same day — which changed the trend — and the decrease in water, the incorporation of these 125 brigades, the decision of continuity along with the takeovers in previous days, when for the first time we incorporated the 436 workers of the Public Service of Extinction who had completed their contracts — are fixed discontinuous for three months — in addition to increasing the working time of the close to 2,283 workers of termination of the Council's device at the proper level of high risk, covering all casualties, covering all vacations, to have the staff of the Joint as in a high-risk situation. You can see the decrees, you can teach them, and of course, if I come here today, it's so that we all have clarity as far as we've been able to reach and, despite being on that limit, of what caused us the high number of incendiaries scattered across the territory. So full operation and operation in front of the fire — even in historical figures — above the usual operation on these dates. But I tell them that the operation we had this month of October and this weekend was even higher than many summers. And I do it by experience. That can't be done if there's no minimum forecast. People have been working to decree this emergency situation. And I have to thank all the officials, because it was timeless, all the staff, who didn't hesitate to give up those free days that they asked to join in and put the whole operation in motion. [[Applause]] They were called one by one, each of the people. And here I mean and highlight the professionalism of the means facing the fire. That's why I think it's fair, especially at this time, to recognize and make use of the support for professionalization that we want to give to them when we consider the Forest Fire Defense Service as forest firefighters, and to strengthen their job offer; which, of course, is a reinforcement in which there is an agreement that has already come from before but which I continue to reiterate, which is a job offer commitment to keep it from here until 2020. Besides, I don't think it's in vain that efforts are being made to renew the media — people also have to have means. In two years we had 69 new motorcycles, which were delivered to the districts as well as to the municipalities. And 143 new vehicles were provided to fire brigades. But, ladies and gentlemen, fighting the fires is not easy, and doing it in Galicia, where there are more than 2 million acres of mountains, much less. And here I want to make a parenthesis, because this weekend wasn't just forest mountains; this weekend were periurban mountains; this weekend they were fires in the helmets; this weekend they were fires in the cities. To this we have to add, of course, the 30,000 nuclei of population that blow up our territory. We add a figure in which fire prevention and extinction competes with everyone. And this we were able to corroborate this weekend by observing how the fire was hanging near the nuclei of the houses, it was trapped in vineyards, even next to cities — this is the case of Lugo Hospital, or even in Vigo. There were also fires in cities like in the Coruña. This is not the first time that the fire operation of the Galician Union, through the Conseilería do Medio Rural — and this year, in addition, in particular — had to be in the city of Coruña, in San Pedro de Visma or near Marineda. I say this because there are many causes that have joined together. But apart from all this, I also have to remember that we all have competences, we all have competences in that 98% of our private estates, in those plots that we have scattered by the various municipalities that are private and that therefore we must keep clean. And there we have to work together all the administrations to make us stronger and enforce the law. So -- and you have to say it loud and clear, and this is just to prevent it -- it's up to the owners to keep their plots clean, but their own, their own houses, to avoid problems. Even though, believe me, after walking through the territory, after seeing the burning places, which burned lawns perfectly carefully and watered from many houses. That is, when the environment is propitious, when the wind blows very strongly, when there is dry—in spite of the water—and therefore the humidity drops by 30%, it burns up to the grass stream. But yet, we must all fight, fight from now on and fight in the future. And besides -- I saw him say here several times, he has been saying insistently since the first tragedy of Portugal -- we all have a responsibility, all of us; some on a private level, some from the municipalities, the deputies, the Ministry. Each of the administrations has a responsibility to try not to have any victims and not to take us to the fires. But the Union will continue to move, aware that we must continue to help, aware that the municipalities have to receive support. We have signed to give stability already last year collaboration agreements about 33 million euros so that, during those three years, they could have operated a service for three months; a service to the municipalities to make it easier to get rid of the nuclei near the houses and, of course, to help in extinction as well. By means of these agreements, in addition to being part of the operation carried out, in addition to all of these actions — and already in relation to another operation, which are the GHGs — they were facilitated last year and ordered —it is recommended that you finally have an budget next to you that is EUR 6,000 — to help identify in the municipalities the property of those farms — which is often not easy — to make their way. In the coming days, in addition, 30 municipalities will sign the conventions — this was already in progress — that will allow them to purchase forest tractors equipped with scrappers and tools to better clean the biomass of the safety strips. There are also the GHG teams, which we will continue, those who must also be grateful for the work they do, a continuing work on the territory. It is therefore necessary to make an effort among all to meet the standards, an effort for greater security of persons, an effort for the sake of our goods. But, of course, I cannot also forget what is an effort to meet our mountains. When we talk about activation 2, that means that all personnel get out of the mountains and dedicate themselves uniquely and exclusively to trying not to get the fires to the houses. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm asking them to get on Galicia's side, and I know they're all. In Galicia there is no evil endemic to make us go against our land. There are no spontaneous combustion fires in Galicia. In Galicia we don't have a lot that burns better or worse. In Galicia we have a mountain, we have a people who burns because they set it on fire. The fire, when it goes forward, carries the mountains forward, no matter how well or poorly ordained, carries the mountains forward. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] He brought forth the best oak trees of Galicia, brought forth vines, took houses, carried lawns before. [[Applause]] Take whatever's on it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The best way to stop the fire in Galicia is to stop the incendiaries, no doubt. And no one here is responsible for the incendiaries, no one is guilty, but we all have to collaborate. And when I say "all" I'm referring not only to all of you who are here, I'm referring to those who can listen to us, to those whom you represent. We can't be complicit in an incendiary, we can never be near an incendiary. We have to report the incendiaries continuously. And in that battle against the incendiaries we must all be: the police, the prosecutor's office, the administration, society... we are all few to stand before the judges and the judges — and then they end up in prison — those who want to end not only with the German mountain, who want to end up with Galicia. This year I have to tell you that we have 173 people who have been arrested and investigated because of research, often propitiated by their neighbours. And here I want to make a parenthesis. This weekend there were many neighbors who came out on the street, who understood that they could identify a motorcycle or a car. And, indeed, there are several lines of research that I hope will give their results. But that's what we have to do every day, it doesn't help to scare us at any given moment because it comes to us on top of the houses. When you're out there on a mountain, we also have to do all this. That effort must come from everyone's hand, because otherwise that's impossible. You mustn't live in silence in the countryside or in the cities. You mustn't use one of the neighborhood to shut up. It's not like... "poor, he's not a bad boy," or "poor, I don't know what's wrong with him." And that's where we all have to go. The countryside is not alone, but, look, these fires were not just for the countryside, with which Galicia is not alone. And Galicia is counting on all the good people who will undoubtedly succeed in bringing an end to those who have wanted to do a lot of damage. And I don't know if they managed to do all the harm they wanted; of course, they did a lot. For this reason, from here on, and to all of you as legitimate representatives of the Greek society, I ask you to help us all contribute to making rural — but not just rural — more powerful than everything else. The one that's getting more and more operational and that we have zero tolerance with the arsonists. And even if it's just one campaign, that each of us be one more cutter, it's for Galicia, it's for his rurals and it's for those people who deserve to be next to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u220	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor. Let my first words in the name of the BNG Group be of remembrance to those four people who have fallen terribly these days, and of encouragement to their families, that I am absolutely convinced that they are going through a painful, unforgettable moment. All of us all feel that their pain is our pain because this really is a very great tragedy. [[Applause]] I also wanted, secondly, to recognize all the workers and workers of the firefighting services their professionalism, their delivery. They're doubling shifts, they're doing voluntary work, and they're working, on many occasions, despite the precariousness that this sector has experienced in recent years of privatization, of a very harsh situation. And I think it's an honor that we have people in our country with that delivery, with that ability, and that at a time like this one is facing problems. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, like not?, of course, for us too is a pride to see a people who are able to face such a situation, as difficult as seeing the fire caught on the door of your houses or wrapping up your dwelling and seeing that the only thing you have to defend yourself are buckets of water, hoses, the solidarity of other neighbors or carts — that many of them had no confidence because they were stopped, and that some mayors had to fix and drive them. Because, Counselor, in many places there was no means, not a single half. [[Applause]] And I think it's very serious that you come here today to tell us with all the quietness that even if the whole operation against the fires was running, everything would be the same. Because that's a whole amendment to what you're doing in the Council. And I think this situation deserves, of course, that we have this very clear. [[Applause]] I think it's very inappropriate to tell us today because the good they were doing, Counselor, and how glad you were in the situation in our rural environment. He came here to tell us that Galicia was quiet, that Galicia was happy. I don't think anyone in this country was satisfied with the situation in our rural environment, with the serious problem we have with the fires, and, I'm sorry to say, much less with the absence of forecast and planning in this matter is going to have the Joint of Galicia. And allow me then to start explaining why I'm saying this. In any case, I also want to defend today — because I heard some high offices of the Galician Union criticising them — the thousands of people we were in the streets yesterday saying that we are full of fires, that we are full of incompetence, that we are tired of seeing how the interests of the turning doors of Ence on our mountain, that we are tired of seeing how there is abandonment of the countryside, that we are tired of seeing how there is no management. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I think members of the Galician Union have no right to criticize citizens who go out and freely express their views. We have every right to democracy to do so. [[Applause]] And I would like the public media to give us an opportunity to express this as well, as the government members say. Our memory of Asturias, Castile, Cantabria, Portugal, who are indeed experiencing a very painful situation and a situation that really requires solidarity and collaboration. And I think the Government of Galicia owes Portugal an apology to say that the problem we were having with our fires was a responsibility of the neighbouring country. Today I think the Luso Government was sending a complaint to the Government of Galicia because they said that they had been requiring cross-border cooperation for years and that there was no answer from the Government of Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And today, ladies and gentlemen — I am also sorry — I believe that your presence has shown that it was important for whoever was in this debate to be the President of the Galician Union, to give us answers to logical and necessary questions, and for us to start a peaceful, peaceful debate, which today does not begin or ends but is the beginning if we really want the disaster we have just seen not to be repeated in our country. Because the important thing is to take note of mistakes, to recognize what is being done wrong and to be able to modify the things we see that don't work in our country. I think that's one of the great lessons a government can teach when facing a situation like this. We have many questions for Mr Feijóo, who is absent today in this debate. We want you to answer us who made the decision to fire 500 Seaga workers and 436 of the Forest Fire Prevention Service, despite the fact that there was an obvious and known risk of fires. Because this month is not like every month, but the responsibility of a government is to analyze what is going on and to have the necessary and effective means to be able to predict a situation on which many people we had been warning that it could happen if the climate conditions allowed were given. We also want to know — but it is not here today Feijóo to answer us — that technical and official reports support the statement made by the president of the board on Wednesday, October 11, 2017, when he said, "The risk of fires in the Atlantic area has obviously fallen." He said this to justify the dismissal of workers from the fire. We want to know if Alberto Núñez Feijóo maintains the statement on Wednesday, October 11, when he said that the firing of brigadiers would not affect the fight against fires. We want to know whether Mr Feijóo continues to maintain this statement. We want to know why two days later, on Friday, at 12.37 p.m., the manager of Seaga sent a statement telling the workers that they had just said goodbye that they would be re-entered on Monday. And I want to thank all those people here today for doing an extraordinary job to power on Sunday -- seeing the obvious risk they were having -- being working, putting out the fires, defending property and defending people. Because it's done because there's that capacity and there's that volunteerness on the part of the workers and the workers. [[Applause]] We also want to know who decreed Sunday's news blackout in this country. Because at least I received—and I suppose you, Counselor, too—many complaints; complaints from people who saw as there were fires or as they saw fires outside and in the public media of this country were with the Land of Rhober. There were a lot of people who were trapped on a highway that was burning on both sides and nobody warned them. There was no police means to deal with that situation, and they were putting on the radio, and what they were hearing was football. Do you think that this is presentable for public media whose fundamental role is precisely to safeguard us in situations such as these? And, of course, we have many, many more questions that obviously in ten minutes we can't ask. [[Applause]] We, Counselor, of course, mean that it is indisputable — and that we will never put it on trial cloth — that these days in Galicia were experiencing extraordinary and extreme weather conditions. We're never going to deny that it was, of course it was! But you know what's not true? What's not true is that it wasn't predictable that in those circumstances, and seeing what was going on, that there might be a serious problem with the fires. That's what you can't say it wasn't predictable. You were aware that we were going through a very severe drought. He didn't start burning on Saturday. It was that he was burning up in Ourense all week and there was a serious problem that was beginning to be detected, that there was a risk that this could happen. Because you also know that the fires are changing by the way our mountain is at this time. And I should recognize that we have to change how the system works in the face of climate change, in the face of extreme drought and a very serious problem in our country. [[Applause]] Therefore, the responsibility of the Government is neither drought nor climate change, the responsibility of the Government is whether it is capable of measuring the risk. Because you presented us here with a Pladiga telling us this year was going to be the best in the world. And what we're seeing, Counselor, is that all of this has faded because they don't take into account the changes that are taking place right now. And, indeed, of course, there are intentional fires. There are now and there have been them before, despite the fact that some of the people who are on this side at certain times have been denied them. I, Counselor, am not able to tell whether or not there is a gang of incendiary terrorists. [[Applause]] I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I heard the environmental prosecutor on the public radio say he doubted it. I don't know. In any case, I imagine that, with the capacity of the state's bodies and security forces, that band will be readily disjointed. And I'll be the first to applaud that measure. Because we're all against the incendiaries. And we all condemn the burning of the mountain. But, look, it's also an incendiary terrorism that Ence and the spinning doors dictate this country's forest policy and fill Galicia with eucalyptus. Incendiary terrorism is also the programmed abandonment of our rural environment and the lack of alternatives, the lack of care so that people can continue to live in rural areas. [[Applause]] It's also incendiary terrorism that has been with the same policies that lead us to this situation for 30 years and that do not take any measures to prevent it. Look, there was a government here before, before you came to Galician Union, which, after a dramatic situation, took drastic measures: strips of protection, a law, a change in the extinction service, changing forest policy and changing rural policy. What did you guys do when they got to the government? Dismantling prevention policies and halving protection fringes. There is no means, Counsellor, to put in place a plan that really allows protection fringes to be effective. [[Applause]] And there must be investment and public support. Without it there will be no solutions. We're in the middle of a crisis today, and we all agree that the important thing is that the fires are extinguished as soon as possible and that no one else lives in fear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u223	...—ending, Mr President—in such a complicated situation. But, look, we need measures now to alleviate the damage, measures to prevent erosion, to prevent the ashes from reaching the sea. But we have to think about the medium and long-term, and we either change forestry policy and change rural abandonment policy, we take seriously that there is a climate change that is affecting us and, as we have to mess with the territory, if we take serious and drastic measures, or do you know what is serious? That in five, six, seven years, it'll make no difference who's sitting in that chair. We will have a similar problem again. And, of course, I don't think Galicia is a people of incendiaries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u225	I think there is a country that needs a government that takes seriously what is happening right now in rural areas and that has a determination and determination to say it. Not that I'm just thinking about the story, about who's to blame or if there's been before, or there's someone who's made it worse. Because with that policy, we will never be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u227	I say today, "you'll never be here again." And, of course, Counselor, I think this self-comprehensiveness is absolutely useless. Today, thousands of people feel even more disappointed after listening to you in this gallery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u229	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, means, before starting the intervention itself, as did the previous speakers, our respect and remembrance for the victims, in a manner similar to the recognition and congratulations to citizenship in general, and to the brigadiests and more to the personnel of extinction in particular, who worked elsewhere; without leaving aside councils, deputies, institutions and other bodies who collaborated jointly in the face of the uncontrolled and improvised administration of the Greek Government. Because, Counselor, you made a storyteller that could be summed up in "what bad is the world and what good is the Government," so, very synthetically. [[Applause]] And we're starting. I wanted to begin by paraphrasing that novel by García Márquez, and adapting it to this situation, because it can almost be headlined as "chronic of an announced fire." Just as it was in the novel, most of the population, the media, the analysts, were intuiting, they knew, what could happen unfortunately afterwards. Repeatedly, opposition groups, in addition, we repeated it at this headquarters, we warned. But the German Government, and the included TVG, did not find out until the blades lit up on a night of indescriptible distress, preceded by days and days of fire-shaped warnings throughout much of the country that did not serve to predict the effects of this disastrous wave. Suppose this time you won't be able to shine the Bipartite. And as far as 2006 is concerned, you have a great advantage: we are not going to use the way in which you used those unfortunate events. We're going to wait for the necessary temperance and we're not going to go along with the irrecoverable personal misfortunes or materials. [[Applause]] We'll have time for that. Despite the fact that hemerothecs are loaded with data, gestures and totally unfortunate expressions of those moments. But in that, blurry and new account, let's leave it as a practice not to imitate. This first appearance is understood as a first contact to begin to clarify this tragedy and draw lessons from it, to make good use of it. Over time we will have reason to enter the detailed analysis of what happened, the quantification of damage accurately, and put on the table solutions. Going to the still smoking and fresh facts, what we are living in is not a situation that can be rushed into such a chaotic environmental terrorism — which also, but not exclusively —. The argument, if we go there and focus on it exclusively, is a simple one that we cannot accept as a single cause under which to hide much of reality and that you are using as an alibi. Without taking any importance on the subject, we're going to enter another type of analysis and another type of element. Because for us the improvisation, the lack of control, the loss of functions, reflected a level of unusual incompetence that resulted in the disappearance of the population, which remained the mercy of the winds that helped to pass the fire much of the country. There was an improvisation because the climate conditions so adverse with drought and lack of rain were announced very much before the end of September. Or why do we want Meteogalicia and weather services? They don't paint anything? [[Applause]] Don't you serve as a guide? Am I not an analysis element? Even the route and the conditions of Ophelia were perfectly described, millimeterically described, many days before it arrived. And you in your blindness didn't want to see, as they don't want to accept the reality of climate change that changes the conditions to deal with on the problem of fires. In the face of the reality of the climate conditions, you answered with leave of functions, since on September 30th, the contract of 436 people, of decontinuous joints, to which you alluded, was finally re-contracted on day 11 with the wave of fires in progress. All right! All right! But then why did they throw them home? What's your name? Didn't you know the conditions that came on? In case this was little, in the heat of the fire, on day 12, the 500 highly qualified brigades of Seaga were thrown into the house to reintegrate them again — before I gave notice — on day 15 in Lugo and 16 in the rest of the provinces. How can we then call this if you know and know the conditions of that 30-30-30 to which we all continually allege? If this is known, why is there a government? Well, you'll have to have the ability to predict, because if you don't, you'll tell me. Some of the municipal brigades have also been beaten in the middle, and it's true that they need a transformation to be operational. And they didn't properly resolve the cover up to, as you well said, the crucial week of the facts of the fire strike. But not before, Counselor. We also have to tell you: they were in a hurry to license the public officials to whom we were referring, but they were not in the same hurry regardless of private media. They weren't in a hurry because it feeds a business. And this situation we're going to see what's going on with these excesses. From these aspects it is those who have to respond in the first term, as they have to explain the informational blackout of the TVG, which was a real shame that citizens of this country had to see in other state-wide chains, and that they can't see in themselves, what was happening. They'll also have to explain the collapse of 112, although it's much easier. [[Applause]] And this is part of the uncontrollable fact that the population in general could check and suffer where the fire has spread to their broads, just like the fact that in some fire there were 11 different entities, breaking up with the single command, which is an important element. This chain of decisions enables us to speak of a high level of incompetence to deal with the situation. Casualty? Is it a coincidence that, seeing what was coming, what was lying on top of the country with the drought, the lack of rain, if these brigades were thrown into the house and no means of extinction? Is that a coincidence? We doubt it. Of course there are arsonists, Counselor, there are many criminal incendiaries against lives, farms and nature, in which you are shielded from accepting the reality of the situation. But I don't know if they realize that, by so much fine-tuned in this respect, they're sowing the doubt about an important part of the population, when the reality is that we have a highly supportive, committed people, as the neighbors have shown during these days. Speaking of arsonists, if so much fine-headed they think that's the crucial issue, they soon forgot that at the end of June 2017 -- that is, four months ago -- you refused a bill from our group to increase the means and budget allocation for control over the incendiaries and the follow-up and axillization of the judicial proceedings of the culprits who put on notice to the navigators. [[Applause]] If it was so obvious, why did they reject it at that moment just before entering the high season? You spoke of 273 people identified. But like the previous appearance, how many detainees are there, how many are going to stay at the end? No matter how hard they get, the causes of the fire are much more varied and complex. Look how tired we are to appeal to prevention in this House as the best way to deal with the fire!, to clean up mountains and perimeters of nuclei, to keep professional forces to work from the end of winter and to a long et cetera. And you have responded again and again with negatives, with help for neighbouring mountains that drive the communities to clean up in the full period of maximum risk or fires for lack of diligence in the administration, or to comply with municipal bands — because we are talking here, at this headquarters, about the problem of cleaning the perimeters of the cores — or relying on private companies as the case may be. It's paid to shut down and not to prevent it. And so we can't go on, Counselor. I want to remind you that since 2013 they have left behind 39 million euros in measure 551B, which is fire prevention and forest infrastructure. They treat the problem of fire as a succulent business for certain companies while rural society fades between dislocation and large holders of investments and actions that are unable to fix population or socio-economic dynamics. However, this is the moment, or it must be the moment, the point of inflexion, to change the model and make reality the slogan of the "rural legislation", of taking lessons, as you yourself said, and, with humility, self-criticism and work, going out. It's a point of inflection to change the concept of seasonality reigning in the Pladika that you've followed at the feet of joints and that it's worth to throw into the house that nearly a third of extinction troops when they fail most, on September 30 and next days. It's the point to leave the corsetation of theoretical ideas unrelated to the new reality of climate change. It's time to pose a change in forest policy that orders the masses and forest species and land uses that so much impact on the proliferation of fires. They don't just stick with the canteen of the incendiaries; they do, too, but there are many other causes. We can't go on with an obsolete, overcrowded plan that provides for uncontrollable forest masses and land uses and that doesn't match the country's needs. We are at the crossroads for a model change in the treatment given to the abandoned mountain, the purely productive vision, to incorporate into it the social and ecological aspects of biodiversity that help control the fire. Finally, Counsellor, it's time for a model change, it's a time for analysis, it's time for criticism and self-criticism, it's time to go to a new forest plan, it's time to evaluate, to restructure the extinction device by increasing public presence and keeping private; and, in prevention, planning rigorously the budget needed to adapt us to new environmental and demographic circumstances...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u231	...—I am President—and socio-economic. Let's not miss that train or lose the country we know and leave a legacy of amazing gray for the new generations of Galicians and Greeks. Believe me, the problem of fire — you know it well, another thing is that you don't want to admit it here — is much more complex than that of firefighters, being important too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u232	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u233	Mr. President, be my words of sympathy for the victims, their families and the people displaced as a result of this weekend's fire strike, and also the recognition of self-employed workers and, of course, the entire citizenship of Galicia that he defended with his hands and without means the common good. Mr. President, don't hide. In spite of being a parliamentarian, we see your seat empty. Galicia has lived on a black Sunday and her president has been hidden, just as she is now. A black cloak covered our skies, a black top spot went through mountains, towns, and cities, and a black tie went through our hearts. The worst night of Galicia's history was lived without the support of its President and Government. He's been hiding all black Sunday. In the cities, in the villages and the hills of Galicia there was only one light on that black Sunday greater than the lamps: the bright eyes of the people who went out bravely with their own hands, without any means yet again, to defend the common good. On the long night of fire sank the Union and people emerged. On the black Sunday, once again, he rubbed the state and planted the nation. A citizen who puts his hands and faces the fire doesn't deserve an absent president. A brave and brave citizenry doesn't deserve a cowardly president. He hid himself on black Sunday and now he's hiding himself. The plenary session of the Galician Parliament is being held, the seat of popular sovereignty, and you are not. All Galicia is represented, and you're not. Don't hide, Mr. Núñez, don't hide behind a counselor who won't be able to explain the emergency device today because it's not his competition. He's not hiding behind an incendiary plot that the director of the Environmental and Forest Engineering School, the Government Delegation and the Environmental Prosecutor's Office are not yet coming anywhere. It is not hidden behind a Portuguese border which does not limit itself to the fires of the province of Lugo or the Coruña. Mr. President, don't hide. He acts as president of a country in a state of national emergency and is struggling. He compares at the headquarters of national sovereignty and explains that there was a lack of means and there was a lack of incompetence. People deserve an explanation, we deserve an explanation. First, for malice and information manipulation. The CRTVG is a public service that on Sunday must have activated a special programming, so the whole population learned what to do if the fire was approaching their homes, where it had been reported where there were fires, where there were cut roads, where there were collapsed tunnels, where there were streets and urban parks in flames. TV should report how to protect itself from smoking poisoning, and it worked as a means of information poisoning. [[Applause]] Sánchez Izquierdo must immediately resign as direct liable for mass poisoning to the population of Galicia. He asks for it at Marea but also the Intercenter Committee of CRTVG and the entire citizenship of Galicia. You must explain the recklessness of the political orders of Civil Protection. With weather projections and current fires, not banning play activities on the mountain was a criminal fear. The hunting days began and there were hundreds of groups of hikers doing hiking. The mountain could be a deadly trap for all of them. They must explain the lack of mobilization of all available personnel. It's not true that the Board had all the available troops operating. 436 brigades are well known because it was the end of the season and after October 12, there could no longer be fires because he told Junta. They didn't cover the casualties or the holidays, so the teams were under minimum at that time. For more details, Friday, October 14th through Junta refused to increase the number of guards for forest agents, who are responsible for managing the work. After not extending the contracts, knowing the risk situation, on Saturday, October 15, the staff enrolled in Seaga was informed of the extension of their service time for a 15-day period. This staff started working on Sunday, almost without the necessary material. They weren't ready or lined until yesterday morning. Environmental agents were in a fire-enforced adscription until September 30th. Despite that risk situation, the subscription was not extended. As a result, these functions cannot be performed even though they are currently on duty. The dial for his guards was expected to be effective from yesterday. You don't understand a phenomenon: the deseasonalization of fires. And as long as they don't understand it, we can't end people's anguish. [[Applause]] We want you to come to this House to explain the lack of mobilization of all available material resources. It's not true, as you said, President, that all the material forces were working. None of the regional parks in the provinces of Lugo and Coruña were mobilized. Mobilized means with special reinforcement of that level. With the mobilization of the parks of Viveiro, Barriers, Chantada, Monforte and Sarria they could have additional troops that would allow them to devote to extinction up to 6 nodrides of 8,000 liters each. In case you don't know, we tell you: a nadriza carries as much water as four civil protection carts; and for each mobilized park, three more troops for the fire. So check it out. I suppose you will say again to the Counsellor that all this was not true, but the parts of the comarcas parks where it is revealed that the troops were not mobilized and therefore a convenient order of reinforcement would give rise to greater availability of means. There were means to stop because there were no staff to deal with the exceptional situation that occurred this weekend. Nor is it that he has air brigades carried from Junta because the helicopters' contract time has not been extended. How many tears could have been avoided, if they could have saved, with all these resources mobilized and available, Mr President! You should also account for the lack of citizen protection. There are hundreds of villages and villages where police and civil protection could not provide the population of something as basic as mascarillas. And the 112 lines were collapsing and the TV didn't report how to make handkerchiefs, there were no batlums, there was not the least half personal attention to the population... how many poisonings would have avoided with good civilian protective equipment? You should explain why not all evacuation protocols have been activated. Protocols did not work because Merge does not apply them properly. As an example, when there are level 2 fires, of what we've heard so much about these days, where houses, gas stations are burning, the Peifoga must be activated, and they haven't done it, they haven't done it right, they've failed to comply with it, so basic issues such as the eviction of the villages have not been carried out as they should. How many dramas we would have avoided, Mr President, by activating protocols! You should also explain the disappointment of the single emergency command and the ineffectiveness of the available resources. The inability to coordinate urban media was amazing in the city of Vigo, and it prevented him from meeting in real time an offer of available media that this and other cities made available to a command that was unable to respond to emergencies. Mr. Rueda puts his hands on his head, but he might be coming here too, and he doesn't, just as the president might be, and he doesn't. So, since you don't want to come here, at least don't hug me from there. In Lugo, there were motorcycles, Mr. President — I know that you want to be President but there is no way — that if you crossed the road going from fire to fire, because, instead of sending them to the nearest fire, they were sent to the farthest fire. That's how it happened in Friol, where Castro's motorcycle was sent, while in Vilalba it was sent to Ludrio, in Castro's county. They should also be aware of the collapse of the Emergency Intelligence Service. The 112 and 085 telephone services were collapsed all evening and Sunday night, while the TVG threw the Land Rover and Serra moura, and the Welsh radio, Galicia in goals. You should explain, Mr President, the absence of state security forces and bodies to regulate road traffic. They talked about means of regulating traffic, ordering people out of the nuclei, driving them through safe roads, preventing them from entering tunnels, who could kick them as if they were in an oven. Where were the missing troops? Intercepting Chinese boxes in Catalonia. [[Applause]] They have been missing -- and they should explain for this -- the prevention work scheduled for 2017 and which has not yet been done, most of the fire surveillance tapes have been closed, the brigades in the house or working under minimum, districts with half of the forest agents who had been ten years... She asked the lady counselor to believe her once and a thousand times. It's not about believing, Mr. President. Neither the incendiary plot — which only the advisor and you have seen — nor the Portuguese fires are responsible for these 10 issues that we have just raised. It's 10 questions you should answer, and they have nothing to do with either plot or Portugal. We want answers. His incompetence and his foresight left the citizenry orphaned by means of a fight against the fire. Once again, black Sunday people felt the loneliness of their government in the face of a catastrophe. Mr. President, you disappoint once again. Disappointed by his absence on Black Sunday in Galicia, you preferred to manage public opinion through information manipulation rather than managing the catastrophe resulting from his incompetence. He disappointed his surrender on the worst night of Galicia's contemporary history. While people turned off the fire with their hands, you said on the radio and on TV that nothing could be done. Of course something could be done! You have disappointed yourself with your horrendous absence today in this Chamber. On Sunday he disappointed with his incompetence, today he disappoints with his cowardice, and whoever disappoints his people, who is not when he is called, does not deserve the position he occupies. Black Sunday citizenship put its soul, its body, its strikes and its life to defend the common good. They made it clear that in order to defend your country you don't need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u234	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balseiros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. They also serve my first words to deeply regret the loss of human lives and to transfer our condolences and all our support to their relatives and loved ones at these difficult times. And let's also be my next words to testify to all our gratitude and admiration for the whole fire-fighting operation, which you've been working on this weekend, and above all with unprecedented weather conditions, in a month of October in our community. Yes, our appreciation and appreciation for the extinction teams, because if they were facing the worst fire-fighting activity, with the worst possible weather conditions and simultaneously, focusing on all their efforts to protect citizens; recognition and gratitude that we extended to the National Police, the Civil Guard, the Army and all the people who collaborated. [[Applause]] And also all our gratitude and gratitude to the thousands of anonymous, voluntary and supportive people who began to collaborate selflessly on the extinction of the fires, helping their neighbors and people who might need it. An enormous example of determination and courage, but also of union and commitment, something we will never be able to pay them enough. In the meantime, there goes our eternal thanks and our most sincere admiration. Counsellor, I'm going to give you a rest, and I'm not going to do it with my words, I'm going to use those of Mr. Anxo Quintana on August 19, 2006, in an interview at the national level: "When you face a war, the troops are never enough." Counsellor, the People's Group would like to thank you for your presence in this House so agile and immediate, only one day after the greatest incendiary terrorism in our community has occurred on this weekend. Thank you very much for your seriousness, for your rigor and, above all, for your clear and determined will to transfer them to all the Members and, ultimately, to all the Greek society, all that has happened as a result of the fires that we are suffering. I wish the rest of this House had acted with the same seriousness and responsibility. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, only fifteen days ago we had discussed here on the subject of the fires in Galicia and then we told him that, despite the fact that until that date the rigorous and real data of the fires and the burnt acres were truly optimistic, we would not assume anything, nor would we boast of anything; no, while there was only one fire or while there was a single acre burning; no, because not everything depends on us; no, because there are climate and natural factors that do not depend on us, neither on the Government nor on the opposition. So far, the situation was very different: it burned 44% less surface than in 2016 and 80% of the fires were in conatos; that is, they didn't exceed 1 hectare of burnt surface. Yes, there were some fires more than the previous year, but with 9,500 hectares less burned than in 2016. And although most fires are manifested at nighttime, to avoid airborne and multifocused media, the reaction time of the average extinction operation between 16 and 20 minutes. These data, ladies and gentlemen, clearly indicate that the operation coordinated by the Galician Union in normal circumstances is highly effective. But the stage changed radically, beating every possible record. A lack of record precipitation; as a result, a prolonged dry record; unusual temperatures for this time of year in the form of a record; the lowest percentage of humidity in our community in the month of October, which was of record; dry winds pushed by hurricane Ofelia, with a speed greater than 90 kilometers per hour; that is, record. The confluence of all these negative factors has led to extremely explosive conditions for the spread and proliferation of fires, but, nevertheless, the mount lords, not only burns. Galicia does not burn alone, the fires do not occur because it does, without more; Galicia burns. These factors and conditions were very well exploited by unscrupulous individuals, without feelings, without any touch of ethical, social, ecological or environmental principles, without even noticing that with their absolute irresponsibility they care about people's lives. Real incendiary terrorists, so you have to say. But apart from the fires that crossed the border that came from Portugal as a result of the strong winds, there were fires that took place in the form of multi-focused, scattered, simultaneous fires throughout the whole territory, separated from one another — I say not, the mayor of Vigo, Mr. Caballero himself — between 2, 4 and 8 kilometers, even in urban plots around the center of the city itself, in territories of municipalities governed by different political ideologies. An attack in every rule against the Galicians and the Greeks, without any kind of distinction or preference; only, that is, with the decisive idea of causing the greatest and most serious harm possible to Galicia. Something I've never seen. Counsellor, the investigations are already under way. He published to Agencia Efica today an information that reads: "The first indications of those who have the Civil Guard point to the intentionality in most of the fires recorded in Galicia, as sources of the Armed Institute report." Neither do we. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in the face of these facts, in the face of these circumstances, this humble deputy thought that for once would make use of rationality, responsibility, common sense... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rivas Cruz, since your parliamentary group doesn't trust you, he doesn't trust your work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u236	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u237	...and you have to promote your leaders, respect, that I have been quiet, sir. [[Applause]] I thought they were going to use rationality, responsibility and common sense for once. I didn't think of myself, that you, in the face of such an unprecedented incendiary attack, would bet on preposting Galician interests to possible electoral revenues. We thought that at this moment of sadness, indignation, anger, impotence of so many Welsh and Welsh people, you would extend a hand and reach out your shoulder to collaborate and help in the search for solutions to the families and the people affected, and also to strengthen the Government of the Union, the forces and security bodies of the state, the judges and all citizens to denounce, stop and judge those responsible for this incendiary terrorism, with absolutely incomprehensible and difficult objectives and objectives. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For that, here's our tender hand, because Galicia doesn't deserve this, because the Greeks and the Greeks... [[Laughter]] Since you didn't step on the fires, you didn't see the scenes that others had to endure... I know, I know. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u238	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u239	Because Galicia doesn't deserve this or what they're doing, because the Greeks and the Greeks what we demand are solutions and not fights, because the Greeks and the Greeks want results, they want economic agreements and non-political agreements that only lead to confusion and disappointment of the good people and, on the contrary, to the emboldenment of the criminals who attack Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Go on, go on. We bet on the agreements, we gentlemen, we bet on Galicia. Others seem to bet on demonstrations and banners. And you, ladies and gentlemen, are still installed in criticism, in destruction, in harassment, in amendment to the whole, not because not because, and, if not, neither. [[Murmurs.]] I've already told you this before: that's what happens when there are no arguments, when there is reason for them, or when the only end they pursue is constant criticism and ongoing harassment of the Government of the Union and this People's Parliamentary Group in search of pure electoral advantage. His only end, ladies and gentlemen, is to confuse, create alarm, destabilize and seek the wear of the PP government. There you are! I won't be the one who claims that even you seem to have been wishing this challenge had happened...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u240	Quiet. Quiet. Silence! No, no, sorry, quiet. Quiet, please! It's in the use of the word. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! [[Strong murmurers.]] He's in the use of the word, and I think he's going to tone what he just said. No, no, shut up! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Protests.]] Silence! [[Protests.]] No, no, Mr. Basketballs himself would... because you cut them. [[Protests.]] I was going to explain what they possibly misunderstood. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! Silence! Mr. Balsairos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u241	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u242	No, no, silence! He didn't accuse anyone here of setting fire. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He didn't accuse himself... No, silence! [[Murmurs.]] He didn't accuse himself. [[Murmurs.]] No, sorry! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Am I in another debate or am I now...? I think I'm paying a lot of attention to the debates. No, no, sorry! [[Murmurs.]] No, no, let me talk to you. Time will be compensated. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u243	If they let me finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u244	No, I'm sorry, I'm going to ask Mr. Balsairos that, indeed, about what ends... he himself would do it already, what happens is that you cut it. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! That's it! [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! That's it! Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! No, no, silence! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Balsairos, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u245	Mr President, I have not made any statements. In fact, I said I wouldn't be the one to claim that it seems like you were wishing this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u246	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u247	No, I won't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u248	That's right. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u249	Because we're not all the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u250	Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rodríguez, be quiet! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Silence!, if not, I have to start calling order and I wouldn't like it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Quiet, everybody, please! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u251	Mr. President, the strategy is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u252	You're done. [[Mr. Balsairos Guinarte pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I know, but... [[Mr. Balsairos Guinarte pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You finish, you have time for your speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Believe me, ladies. I feel authorized, exactly like the vast majority of my colleagues in the Popular Group, to make such comments. Because we, unlike you, what we did was to be from the first minute next to the neighbors, county, fire fire. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, most of the Sunday, all night and all the practice of yesterday's day—Monday—what we did was be with the affected ones in Pontevedra, Vigo, Lower Mine, Ribeiro, Paderne de Allariz, Cervantes, Cebreiro, etc. Always next to the brigades, the Civil Guard, the police, the volunteers, politicians of any color, the technicians, the affected, the people, the Greeks and the Greeks, helping, collaborating and extinguishing the fires, being useful, lords, being practical and being pragmatic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u254	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u255	...and humbly helping, ladies and gentlemen, helping. By the way, neither I nor César Fernández, nor José González, nor Teresa Egerique, nor Isabel Novo, nor Carlos Gómez, nor Julia Barreira, nor any of the other Members and Members of the People's Group meet you in the fire zones. None of you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u256	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u257	And you know why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u258	Silence! Silence! [[Protests.]] Gentlemen, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u259	And you know why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u260	No, no, silence! Ladies! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! [[Protests.]] I'll suspend the full! [[Protests.]] I'll suspend the full! [[Protests.]] No, no, no, I'll suspend the full. No, no, silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Otherwise, I'm forced to suspend the full. [[Protests.]] This is a debate, and in the debates... yes, no one was insulted. [[Protests.]] There'll be a chance to correct it later. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll let Mr. Balsairos finish. Please finish when you can. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, maybe they were but we didn't agree, it's a very rare thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u262	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u263	Maybe they were, but maybe we didn't agree. Then perhaps you have the gift of being able to be in all places at the same time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u264	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u265	Because while we were -- you know, maybe, but we didn't see them -- helping the neighbors, you guys at that time were preparing the demonstrations. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrations that were prepared while we were next to those affected. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u266	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u267	Let me tell you that I'm worried...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u268	Quiet, please! Finish as soon as you can, Mr. Basketballs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u269	Let me tell you that I am worried, concerned to see how certain people who have not spent any work putting out fires — perhaps some — that have not suffered any danger — perhaps some too... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u270	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u271	...and not much helped anyone—maybe yes—and others who probably never stepped on the countryside... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u272	Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll suspend the full! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Quiet, please! Mr. Basketballs, finish as soon as you can. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u273	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u274	Well, we've been five more minutes. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u275	Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's a sadness that they can use so pettyly and manipulatively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u276	I'll suspend then. They're forcing me to suspend the full and I didn't want to. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] No, no, we'll suspend. I have no problem!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u277	Mr. President, I'm going to finish because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u278	Yes, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u279	...when things feel bad, they don't want to listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u280	Silence! [[Protests.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u281	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u282	Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u283	Don't sweat so much, after all, I didn't call anyone corrupt, murdering women or anything like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u284	Finish it, Mr. Balsairos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u285	In any case — and I finish now — the only thing I think is that it causes me a huge sadness that they so machiavelly use this unfortunate action that we had with the fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u286	Thank you, Mr. Basketballs. Replica from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u287	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that I come on my own initiative. I wanted to do it as soon as possible, I wanted to explain to them what happened in Galicia. And that's what I'm gonna keep doing over the course of this time. But it is also true that I thought we were all a little more aware and we would stop doing politics and focus on Galicia — for the hemerotheque, which reminded me of some, because there is indeed a lot of hemerotheque. I tell them that the sad thing about all this and that since the appearance began because there are still fires in Galicia; one more in Vilalba and one more in Monterrey. That's the sad thing. I want to tell you, Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Villares — who were asking why the president of the board was not looking at — that the president of the board is currently transferring the grief of all the Greeks and Greeks in the tent in Vigo to a person who died. He was one more victim of this fire. I don't know where he went, fell, and so he had a problem and died. Which you already know where the president of the Galician Union is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The President of the Council of Galicia — just like the Government, like its advisers — does not hide, the President of the Council of Galicia is in good shape and in bad shape. And the president of the Galician Union was at all times pending and, with the various teams, present at the different centers and areas since Saturday night. So that's the clarification I wanted to make. I'm going to try to respond a little bit to what you've come to tell me to clarify certain things that often draw attention. And he draws attention — and besides, that we try to make that policy, which I think trace, but on a bad policy towards our citizens — that we name once and a thousand times Ence, that we name, therefore, one and a thousand times the eucalyptus. I told them there was no difference here between the eucalyptals and the oak trees, that's the great reality. So, you stop making demagogy in this sense, because the arsonists didn't understand eucalyptals or anything else. They're worried about the forest plan. Yeah, look, the forest plan is doing the Galician society, it's doing the sector. They're reviewing that forest plan. But that forest plan isn't going to be what you and you want, it's going to be what Galician society wants. We do not strive to conduct certain policies that do not lead to anything. That forest plan has to be for people who live in rural areas and live in rural areas, and we have to make it compatible. [[Applause]] Today I was transferred to San Cristovo de Cea, and there I saw the outrage of the staff who helped to reboot a mountain, a mountain that rested in 2007, after a fire in 2003, and perfectly ordered. He burned the mountain, came to the houses and even to the agrarian part, but also to the monastery of Oseira. And, please, let's do pedagogy, but in a positive way, of what are fires and others, which doesn't distinguish, moreover, from species. There are no poisoned species, there are forest species. In Ourense it's where it burned, in Ourense it's where most fire activity there's and in Ourense there's no eucalyptus. Let's stop demonizing some things because it gives us the urge in front of others, which has no reason to be. It was said that we'd fire people. Look, we don't fire anyone. There is a collective who has been in office for many years — and in addition, indeed, some of those who are here have been ruling — who are hired for three months. The contract was ended, administrative proceedings were made, before the fire strike the emergency was declared — I tell you I come here to give you all the information, to see the decrees, called that staff and was incorporated before the fire strike. Once and a thousand times you name Seaga, and I think it's all right. Seaga's staff is 8% of the fire personnel in the Conseilerie du Medio Rural. When you talk about private companies, I'd like you to clarify them. But you clarify, so as not to deceive people, to see what those private companies are, because I'm in front of the Council, and I still don't know. So the contracts were finished and again the contracts were renewed. And they've also renewed unprecedented contracts, which were the staff's discontinuum of the eleven months—which were all working, Mr. Villares, on the 11th. And thanks to that, they could be all operating motorcycles. But we also need to know that there are shifts and that they must be respected, regardless of the fact that, on a voluntary basis, there have been people who have been doing up to 24 hours. You can't distinguish between being operational and expanding the guards of the forest agents. In addition to being fully operational — which were all before the 11th day — what is done is, as it is high risk, to increase those guards to be operational within 24 hours. It's the same with forest technicians, too. Fire parks know they were all perfectly distributed. And we don't say that, that's what the President of the Parliament said — which I've been in touch with since the first hour of the morning. She went out to say that the park was an example to follow — she is the President of the Consortium. And the same thing happens in the consortia of Lugo or in the consortia of Coruña, with which a little bit of respect to the different organizations of professionals. [[Applause]] 112 had an emergency situation, like the rest of the collectives, but at all times attended the staff, never left the staff unattended. So don't go with that picture. We're not doing well. So society gets into all this, and today several young people say to me, "This is going to be more of the same again, you won't agree, you'll try and pull each other out." Look, I tell you and I really inform you what we've done and from there, everyone with their responsibility and everyone with their conscience. In recent years there has been no depreciation of any forest agent posts and their coverage level is at a hundred percent. And by answering about whether we've reduced staff, whether the operation was not, because it was the operation, we didn't reduce staff. What is more, we have done everything possible — but not now, we have done everything possible — to make them in a better situation. Having said this, there'll be something we agreed on, which brings us here, which was that wave of fires and how it behaved this year. And indeed, the year 2017 was the driest of the historical series. And, indeed, until September 30th, the situation was "good" — among you, because, while there is a fire, of course, of joy, nothing. Mrs. Pontón, as far as humility is concerned, everyone in the world. All there is is is work, all there is is is sadness, but humility... humbleness believes I can find more, but with similarity. But it's also true that we had a hurricane, Ophelia, which brought about an atmospheric phenomenon. And that atmospheric phenomenon has changed, in a number of hectares, not fires... because fires believe that they don't reproduce, they don't emerge from the earth. There are incendiaries. And is it diverting your attention to saying that there are incendiaries? But we could get here! We're ready to shut down, so we're not ready to cut off the hands of those people who do a lot of damage. And I don't know if they managed to do all the damage they wanted. He's advanced a lot in Galicia, he's advanced a lot in recent years. It's advanced in the number of fires, of course. If we go to the historical series, we can talk in 2003 of 8,518 fires; in 2004, of 10,300; in 2005, of 11,785; in 2006, of 6,948. And now in 2017, until now, we're at 3,162. Move forward, move forward; but have you moved forward enough? Of course not. In the number of acres of course there was immense work done all these years, but perhaps someone wanted to give an effect and say that this was not right, that this was not right. And I'm telling them to concentrate, in four days, 273. On day 13 of 10 we had 29 fires; day 14, 56 fires; day 15, 134 fires; day 16, 54 fires. In the province of Coruña there were 36; in Lugo there were 80; in Ourense, 105; in Pontevedra, 52. Of these 273 fires, 96 started between 10 a.m. and 23.59 p.m.; that is, when we no longer have air force and means to cut them off and fight them at the same time. Incidences of course there was. And that's what we're dedicated to. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not engaged in politics with this. And what incidences do we have? For we are told the incidence, in the case of the province of Lugo, of a condition in a inhabited dwelling; in Ourense, two, of those that are verified as uninhabited, and three possibly empty or uninhabited; and in Pontevedra, 20 – 16 inhabited and 4 uninhabited. We are also affected by installations: in Lugo, two alpendres and a straw in ruins; in the case of Ourense a yard or shed; and, in the case of Pontevedra, seven ships — two of wood, one of the distribution of drinks, one of the storage of building materials and three of cattle — as well as ten sheds. We are also suffering from car conditions: in the case of Lugo, two; in the case of Ourense, two; and in the case of Pontevedra, six. This is what we're working on, and we're working on it to solve it. Evil has already been done by others. Good has done it all of the Greek society trying to avoid greater harm. They also did all the collectives and all the professionals, those are the ones who do good; evil, others. And now the Administration is going to put all possible measures on the table to make that pain a little lighter. So we're going to enable measures to alleviate the damage. In that he began to work. And we're going to prioritize damage starting with inhabited housing; secondly, ships and farms. And, of course, start to value it already to make the different restorations within the forest area and taking into account all the affected parks. To the question of whether we reduce means, I tell them we don't reduce means. But I can see it, I have the numbers. But you can see it, no means have been reduced. As for Seaga's brigades, their incorporation began on Sunday, and the three-month discontinuous deeds started on 11th. There was forecast and there was organization. People were called to incorporate themselves — on vacations —. And the rest of them replaced each other. How can I see heads saying no, if all the officials are calling to locate them! But how you can deny obvious things and that's not true! If you're busy, go on. They were talking about hemerotheque. Look, all the troops are good, all the troops are actually good. But with the wind that we had, there were moments when we had to remove the troops that were in front of the fire, because otherwise I would take them forward. And it's true he's not in Parliament anymore. It was one of the people I understand that I knew the most, the opposition, which is the rural area. She was the one who really cared, that was Teress Peace. And I also lived when I was mayor of my people. At that time she said, "The fact that there were 30 or 40 more brigades during the days of 13, 14 and 15 August" -- that it was at that time -- would not determine the magnitude of the catastrophe; above all, if we were talking about the brigades that consist only for three months, and that all and each of the groups here we have questioned this year. But they couldn't, they didn't want or couldn't do more. And I recognize and make this statement regardless of whether the perpetrators of this delay are mayors of the People's Party." She said that at the time. I refer to it because there are many of those who have little reference can be made because they are not concerned or are not rural acquaintances. Because I, Mrs. Pontón, many times, when I hear you talk, I think I should walk a little further down the countryside. You've got to take a little more walk around the countryside. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] We can also pull hemerotheque with the general director of Montes with the Bipartite, who said, "A fire has multiple factors that influence, like the wind. If there's a wind-free fire, the affected surface can be a hectare; if there's wind, it can be 10, 20, 100... in a fire there are multiple factors that don't have to do with the force and yes with the speed with which the alarm is given. A fire can often be avoided if you arrive in five minutes, but, of course, it's not easy on our territory." Let us be a little conscious, because indeed we all have hemerotheque and we must be careful. And within prudence, we put on the table how they work and how they work, where we could move forward and where they couldn't move forward. But they make coherent proposals, they don't just try to give a headline and also make an easy policy in which it just keeps going out a message, which is a distorted message. But not only they, too Mr. Blanco, who was well acquainted with Galicia, said in March 2009 — man!, I say Galician acquaintance because he has a lot of family in Melide, then he would know her at that time — "What we can't have is summer's staff all year long, because that's to be paid and there's no need to have that device, a volume three times higher, because it wouldn't be possible to finance it." I mean, we're not saying we didn't have to have any cash. We put on the table everything we could to have these troops. In the end, the result is that they have been avoided — they believe me — a lot of misfortunes that may have existed in the territory of Greece. As for the media, we don't go against the media. They do their job and we should try to make it easier for them, but they do their job. [[Murmurs.]] And it's a job that, in addition, thanks the Greeks and the Greeks. What's going on? Which, if we want to distort the message, then we're wrong, and we shouldn't use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u288	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u289	Counsellor, four dead people, 55 active fires -- according to you informed us this morning -- a black weekend, thousands of displaced people and many people who lost everything -- because there are people who didn't just lose their home, who worked very hard to build it, but people who lost their business because they burned down these days -- and you come here to tell me that you're going through the countryside, that you're going through the countryside. [[Applause]] Counsellor, I think it was predictable today for the poor intervention of the People's Party, but it was not predictable, Counselor, that you had come here with this frivolity on such a complicated and difficult day, and after all that has just lived this country. [[Applause]] I, of course, hope so much more of a government that is at the service of the country and at such a difficult and so complicated moment. I believe, Counselor, that you are proving to us by being active and passive, that you have a very large position to hold, Counselor. I'm telling you from the point of view, but from the point of view of a political appraisal that I think you just demonstrated today. [[Applause]] Look, I've seen many mayors and mayors of all political colors fighting their neighbors against the fire. I've seen a lot of people who've been sleepless for hours, running operations, pulling people out of their homes, fighting the fire. I don't think anyone has the right to teach anyone anything about what's going on these days, nor do we have to come here to get meats of any kind. I think it's absolutely inappropriate. [[Applause]] If I want to come here and make a hemorrhage... yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know what I could get out? [[Murmurs.]] The People's Party circulars in 2006 that called for no firefighting brigades. I could, of course... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I insist that I am very proud to be on the streets yesterday with thousands of citizens who told you not to the fires and who are absolutely outraged by the incompetence of your government. But, look, you did organize demonstrations while Galicia was burning. Here's the president of the Congress of Deputies, President Rajoy and President Feijóo, while Galicia was burning, asking for resignation. [[Applause]] This was what you guys were doing at that time. And I really don't want to go on with the hemerothec, because it's trouble, or the Journal of Sessions of this Parliament and the things that have been said here, nothing comparable to what we are asking you today, Counsellor, that we are asking you questions. He didn't even answer the first one, nor the first one, Counselor. I asked you a lot of questions. We want to know why you made the decision that in such an exceptional situation the Seaga workers and the Public Fire Prevention Service would be fired. And you know perfectly well, just as I know, because you're on a note sent by Seaga's own workers and workers -- that the order you gave your advisor, the email you sent to your workers Pablo Arbones Macinieira, director of Seaga, on Friday, 13-12.37 minutes, told them, "Before the current situation of forest fires, the Rural Council is processing a management order to mobilize the crews of Seaga's device. This mobilization is scheduled from Monday 16th and until October 31st of this year". And, you know what the brigades answered? This is the communication they made. Of course, seeing the situation, what they set up is to work on Sunday where there were means — because the media were disassembled on Friday itself — so they could get to work. This is being denounced, Counselor, the workers and the workers of Seaga. [[Applause]] And, of course, I think these kinds of issues deserve an explanation. There were a lot of calls that couldn't be answered by 112 because there weren't enough staff to meet all the emergencies that occurred. I can give you cases of people -- if you want personally -- who have been trapped on the Baiona highway by desperately calling 112 without having the call back, and who have had to decide, among all the people who were trapped, to turn around the cars without any force from the Civil Guard or the police or anyone who had helped in such an extreme situation. And you come to this Parliament telling us that everything worked perfectly, and that they are timely cases. Do you really think people don't know what you've been through these days? But do you really think that account is sustainable? If even President Feijóo has just recognized that twelve hours have been out of control!, twelve hours everything is out of control and without forecast, Counselor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u290	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u291	I think we're here repeating... and finished, Mr. President, if I may, with a final consideration. Because this is obviously the beginning of a deeper debate. Because it's clear that there's a lot to investigate here, a lot to analyze about what's going on. First, about how the device worked. But we also say that: either if you change forest policy, or if you change the policy of abandoning the rural environment, or there's no future. But, look, what's clear is that here are a lot of things that didn't work out. And you know what's regrettable? That there are two attitudes that can have a government in the face of a crisis like this that we've just lived through: one is that you're doing, which is something repeated, we've already lived in this country with the Prestige, we've lived it on other occasions, where the important thing is to manipulate public opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u292	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u293	...and build an account that tries to be credible; and there is another attitude, which, in fact, is that of humility, that of recognizing mistakes and that of being willing to change everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u295	...that doesn't work well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u297	Because, of course, it can't be that you come here and what you tell us is that the eucalyptus is not a problem for the fires of this country, defending the Ence and really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u299	...don't want to change or acknowledge any of the mistakes that the Council has made. Of course, the block is going to work to make things change for the better in this country. And I assure you, if you had to hear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u301	...the spokesperson for the People's Party, what I'd be telling you today is that you had to resign.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u302	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u303	Almost, we nearly bit and fell — or some fell — in the provocation of the spokesperson for the People's Party, which I understand openly came to set fire to the Chamber. To put it calmly, with all the rest of the world, it is not proper to say or state that only the mayors of the PP were and (...) because we could quote that only you, such as... listen, the Deputy of Pontevedra, the Mayor of Carballeda de Avia, Vigo, Nigrán, As Neves, etc. and we could go on like this indefinitely. [[Applause]] [[Intelligible]] But, well, of course, he came to play the role of evil in this representation and, so to speak, the adviser the role of good. But I repeat again that giving lessons I don't think it leads us to anything, anywhere in particular. As far as concentration is concerned, I think it should be taken with all the normality of the world. The citizenry is scared, she's distressed. And it's normal, it's the fruit of sensitivity that you have for a drama, for a problem you don't know how to shortcut it, that has overflowed it and by what you've been threatened. I don't see what it's like to tear your clothes apart and criminalize a bunch of citizens' concentrations. No, for nothing, that is not the way we should go on this subject, which is so serious that it covers most of this country. Humility, yes, humility and listening are important, because here we have to analyze. And it was said before: this is just a principle, we must have calm and quiet to analyze thoroughly, quantify, propose and ultimately try to solve this problem. With regard to the official position, so to speak, of the Council, the thesis is clear. It's a unique thesis to which we are being led and which also appears replicated in the media. And this is the fruit of a plot of arsonists. That's the only thesis you've shown here in this parliamentary headquarters, you haven't heard of other reasons, other far deeper and more important causes. And that doesn't mean taking any value on the subject or the incidence of arsonists on this subject. Because if that was the only thesis — which is not — it goes against all common sense. You used to say there are only fires if they stand. Yeah, and that's also contradicted the initial claim that 75% are due to incendiaries. But today La Voz de Galicia published an interview with the environmental prosecutor, Mr. Álvaro García Ortiz, who repeats during the interview: "We have no clue that in a situation of a case of fire people take advantage of to burn more". Well, the prosecutor says it doesn't say it in the Socialist Group or the Bloc or the Tide. "Until now, after many years investigating, we have found nothing like a plot, not even in the 2006 wave. We'll see." It ends like this. To quote some of the things, discard it, discard it in principle, which doesn't mean that at the end it doesn't appear the plot. But as long as it doesn't show up, we have to act with a little more prudence in that sense. And I think, and we all think, because so it's in all kinds of research, publications, etc., that, regardless of the incidence of incendiaries, the problem of fires is a much broader and more complex problem. [[Applause]] And if we don't want to accept this thesis, it's impossible for us to try to put the remedy. With regard to those deep causes, those complex structural causes, we have said them here in parliamentary headquarters many times. We have spoken of depopulation, and all the studies, analysts, speak of depopulation as a cardinal element that affects fires; or the abandonment of agrarian activity, consequence and cause. I suppose you will know the fact that this year, from 1 January to 30 August, 263 farms have closed, despite the announcements and the impact of the aid — that there are, that they do not deny —. But that is a demonstration of how the sector is, of how ultimately the socio-economic foundations of the rural world are. The forest plan is obsolete. You think you were talking about it in concrete terms that the Greek society is doing it. Well, man, we could get there. There were groups, Counselor, who participated in the guidelines, but the guidelines are one thing, it's not the plan. Because for the plan there's a Tragsa technician in Madrid who copies and picks up what's done in the Balearic Islands, that's the reality. And there's a draft that went through the board on June 30, but it's still stuck there. And we don't ask for anything that's so abnormal, like that draft is of knowledge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u305	...participate the actors in the sector and participate in the parliamentary groups. I don't know what fear is. But, of course, that we are participating in the Greek society in that forest plan, no, no, we deny the biggest, because it's not true. Because the situation — and we'll talk about it tomorrow — is not how you just described us. And, to finish now, president, yes; incendiaries, yes. But it would be very sad if I were to stay in society that the problem of fire in this country is just a matter of incendiaries, of bad people in the face of good government. Because that's a lie. The problem of fire is a much more complex subject, as you know, as the members of your party know, and as the Government knows. And we must be willing to deal with all those causes, which are structural causes, and try to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u306	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u307	Thank you, President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u308	For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairos, Counselor, let me introduce you to this magnificent mobile phone. It's a last-generation Samsung, it's light, it's flexible, it's saved anywhere, it's got an extended battery, it's got an excellent touch screen. Navigation is much better than any of its series, with a delicious touch screen that has a lot of sensitivity. It's a magnificent Samsung phone that's blown up. It exploded this weekend, it exploded this weekend within a bottom which, in turn, was in a flame-extinguishing suit. Its owner was David of Manzaneda, a Member of this Parliament. Such near the fire is the people of In Marea when it needs it. [[Applause]] So close are the people of the common, in the defense of the territory, of the country and of the common good, when necessary. That's the common people, that's us. [[Applause]] And now, if you like, we are talking about the rest of the issues that we are dealing with this afternoon, with this little debate — which cannot be a big debate — about the causes and consequences of the fires. Two notes. Though they are committed to not giving answers, perhaps some may, because not everything that happened this weekend came from causes related to the extinction of fires this weekend. There are more structural issues. You could take advantage of your last shift to explain to us why, when they arrived at the Government, they reduced the distance of security between the population nuclei and the forest masses, from 100 meters to 50 meters. Come up here and explain. Why did they do that? No, no, get up here and explain it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You'll have your turn to explain it. Secondly, they explain why 50 to 30 meters were reduced by the free strips of specially fueled species. Why did the tree masses of the population nuclei be reduced? Why did they reduce them? Why, by putting this in danger for the populations, as seen these days, have reduced those distances? Explain why. What interests did they obey? What did they do it for? Is it worth reducing those distances? The economic profit that could be obtained from those 50 meters away, were you worth it these days? That is, a single material loss — we don't talk about humans — is it worth all the minimal distances you applied with this reform that you did in 2009 when you arrived at the Board? Say "yes" or say "no". Explain. Because that doesn't have to do with the Portuguese or the incendiary plots either. That has to do with an institutional decision of the Galician Union that responds to some interests. Tell yourself what interests he answers and explains why. Since Mr. Feijó won't do it, at least someone who has the decency to give us explanations. In any case, this is an incomplete debate, it is a debate that can be misleading, because the fires will end only when there is a living rural, and for that it is necessary to remove thoroughly all the policy applied at the moment, not only with regard to the rural environment, but with regard to the whole country. That the fires entered the cities is an example that rural and urban differences cannot be distinguished. We have to understand everything as a whole, as an ecosystem of human and natural, where we can all live in harmony. For that, first of all, there is a living rural area. A living rural needs — and we say it here a thousand times — essential services for the population to have expectations for the present and expectations for the future to live with dignity and not leave. The abandonment of rural areas is the first cause of forest fires. It's necessary for schools to open and not close, as you do. Medical centers need to have doctors and doctors and nurses and nurses, and they don't want to be whales for services, as you do. A network of attention is needed for older people in the home, and institutionalized when necessary, and not the destruction of essential services, as you do. Transport systems, both round and rail, must work, and not be uncommon, as you did this summer. It's necessary to keep in mind that climate change has come, it's not a threat, it's a reality, but those who deny climate change cannot adapt to it. We have to adapt to climate change. That means to put a hand on renewable energies, and not penalize them; that means to encourage energy saving; that means to promote sustainable mobility, both in cities and in rural areas. There is a need for a change of forest model, oriented to multifunctionality, the sustainability and diversification of species, which is not all a monoculture, eucalyptus or pines. You need to take advantage of the subbosk. There is a need for species that feed to make natural cutters, which naturally develop and which, in addition, produce economic wealth. It is necessary to promote the recovery of an agricultural model that puts into focus, not only for the forestry of agricultural land — which has been the biggest aberration this country has seen in the last thirty years — but to recover for agricultural use those areas that you have eucalyptusized. It is necessary to produce the mobility of agricultural land, so that the useful agricultural surface of those livestock and livestock that today want to access higher quotas, in order to have the farm well cared for, can do it. It is necessary for the RDP, that the Rural Development Plan, to be addressed in terms of sustainability and promotion of the development of the rural environment, and not simply to subsidize eucalyptus plantations, to serve the forest cartel. It is necessary for the common agricultural policy to be used to set population in rural areas. It is necessary for the Public Administration to establish networks, such as the agricultural extension office, which serve to address the rural environment. It's necessary that the Administration ultimately rush with people who struggle to survive on a daily basis. What we saw this weekend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u310	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u311	...with a population serving and defending the common good with their own hands in the face of lack of means, it was only a sample of the most serious moment of the everyday situation, and it is that people struggle it alone for going out, because they have no help from the board for anything, they have no administration that deals with either the rural environment or the articulation of the rural environment, the urban environment or the urban environment or anything. We have a minimal state — the dream of neoliberals —, increasingly privatized, increasingly withdrawn, increasingly neglected people, where social solidarity and social justice cannot be exercised, nor is there any concern about the common good. We believe that a complete model change is needed. It's not just about having more brigadiers so the fire won't burn the mountain. There is a need for a different comprehensive policy of agricultural, agricultural and forestry character, to understand the rural and urban environment as the constituents of a single essence, of an ecosystem in the world in which we live, which is the only thing we have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u312	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balseiros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pontón, of course, we want hemerotheque. Look: "Writers like Manuel Rivas and Suso de Toro and singers like Antón Reixa attribute the wave of fires to resentment for change of government.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I suppose she's lonely. "The Attorney General puts himself at the head of the government's thesis that there is an organized plot." In 2006 yes and no now? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, ladies, I'm not insulting them, not even my words. Alfredo Suárez Canal, counsellor of the Rural Middle Ages: "Many in Galicia know how to do harm. The rural councillor claims that if the number of fires doesn't fall, it's because there's an unusual criminal activity." On the same page: "Narbon proposes to investigate whether Galicians have any pathology." [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, don't you know there are incendiary terrorists? Mr. Quintana knew. Mr. Quiroga, what's going on? I don't play any roles, I fulfill my obligation, and I do so with respect and humility. By the way, in 2006 there was no Meteogalicia? I'm saying that because of the lack of forecast. Mr. Villares, you are so close to the fires that you have time to be in the fires and more in the demonstrations. Funny. By the way, you miss the president. Man, don't look down on the advisor, who's responsible for the subject we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u314	Quiet, quiet. Mr. Villares, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u315	Besides, do you know why the president isn't here? The president is not here because he is conveying the condolences of all Galicia to the families of the deceased in the fires. Believe me — I tell you, ladies and gentlemen — I am allowed to question your criticisms of the management of the Galician Union in the matter of fire prevention and extinction. And I feel authorized, because I, yes, this one who speaks to you now, yes, have lived this miserable experience before. Yeah, I'm talking about the famous 2006 fire strike. Yes, ladies, but then those who ruled were you. Do you remember the zero zone of those scary fires? I was, I was the mayor of Sardinia at that moment, and I can believe that then, like now, I was from minute one beside the neighbors, beside the fires, helping and shutting down; three nights without sleeping, five days eating the base of sandwiches when you could, seven days without rest, fighting, suffering and working beside the neighbors, the affected, the people, living and sharing experiences so unpleasant that many cannot even imagine. I, along with the civil protection group manager, found two charred women beside their car calcined in a diversion at the foot of the national road 541. Then there was another death by fire in the neighbouring municipality of Campo Lameiro. And believe me, it's not forgotten, it can't be forgotten. Yes, ladies, then there were also misfortunes, then there were also losses of human lives. On this occasion the Government has turned its face. Since last weekend they have been on the ground not only the president and counsellor, but other members of the Government, such as the vice president or the health adviser, in addition to all those I've told them before. They were also in the media, and today this week, and the request itself, we have the adviser in Parliament. When Galicia burned with other parties in the Government—and I remember those fires very well, because, as I said, they took the lives of neighbors in my Town Hall and the neighboring--the Government refused any extraordinary appearance in the days following the catastrophe. We had to wait fifteen days to hear the government in parliamentary headquarters.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u316	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u317	It's very bad for the truth! And the excuse was the following -- and I quote the advisor Suárez Canal in an interview with El Correo Gallego on August 14 that year -- "I will give explanations in Parliament when we resolve the crisis; now we can't do a political controversy while people are suffering." Funny. I believe that today this government shows that things can be done differently, that you can be on the ground with people who are suffering, helping, being humble, and also giving explanations in Parliament to the whole of Greek society on a subject that causes us all anxiety. Then, in 2006, there were high temperatures; it was August, ladies. Then there was dry; it was summer, ladies. Then there was wind 30 kilometers an hour; now they're over 90, gentlemen. In the face of certain extreme and continuous dry situations, the absence of moisture and with a warm wind of more than 90 kilometers per hour, to mention that more than 5% of staff could have avoided the catastrophe is fragile and it is completely absurd for those who know something about extinguishing fires. If you don't believe me, neither the advisor, nor the general director of Montes, create a socialist minister of a government supported by the BNG and the United Left, Mrs Narbona, Minister of the Environment in 2006 and the current president of the PSOE, who said in an interview in La Voz de Galicia on 10 August 2006: "When the fire is so widespread, more media are being added to the effectiveness.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh If you want to get statements from politicians from the People's Party here in that time you'll see that they were critical of the Government, to accuse us of opportunists, I think, they're right; I don't think none of them exceed some that we've seen these days on social networks. Leo — BNG's official account — "Burn Galicia because we have an irresponsible government." Louis Villares: "The drought of Junta ideas destroys the country; the fire will only stop it another forest and agricultural policy in rural." "The non-politicians of the Cloud Board incinerated the mountains and also citizens alive."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u318	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u319	Alexandra Fernández, Mrs. En Marea in Congress: "It burns the country and we burn in anger; it takes a storm of indignation against Feijóo." I mean, his first reaction and his first concern is always the election. Of course, yesterday, in the middle of the crisis, they had already called their first demonstrations, and they were greatly missed when in 2006 the PP, the party that was in the opposition at that time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u320	Finish, please, Mr. Balsairos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u321	Mr President, I hope you'll give me a little more time, because they've been interrupting me constantly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u322	No, no, look at the clock, look at the clock, eh! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u323	Therefore, it was scandalous that a demonstration had been convened a month later and you do it while people are with those caleros shutting off in the fires or watching their dead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u324	Finish, finish, Mr. Balsairos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u325	I'm done, president. For you today the guilty of fires is the Government, it is your forest policy, or it is the eucalyptus. And I ask, what is Eucalyptus in Jurés' natural park, where did the first great fires begin? What is Eucalyptus in the Ribeiro area, in Monforte or in Pena Vidosa? What forest policy is in Vigo's urban helmet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u326	Thank you, Mr. Basketballs. Your time is up. Close the show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u327	Thank you again. Tell them this is an appearance, but they will have me at their disposal each of the groups for all the information they need, for all transparency, because nothing will be hidden at all, because nothing must be hidden at all. Believe me, Mr. Villares. I'm sure you'll accept it in good grace, because you're smiling, and I think it's very good. To your complete disposition for all the doubts or anything you need, because we'll give you the information. It's good, because that's how we're all going to make constructive criticism, and so Galicia will be much better. [[Applause]] I'm here at my own request, and besides, I hope you'll be clear and don't interpret my words, but stay with what I say. I've come to say what the operation was and I've seen what are the causes and not why the staff were hired in a popup manner before the fire strike. And that operation — I remember again — was 350 brigades, 220 motorcycles, 40 pas, about twenty air vehicles, counting the members of the board and also of the Ministry; in total, 5,600 troops. I believe that the people's feet were not alone, I was all over the Government, and in a very special way, apart from the president of the Galician Union, the Vice President of the Galician Council, who accompanied me all day and all night on Sunday, and, in addition, trying to coordinate as best as possible and each of the moments that were complicated by the wave of fires. Can it do better? Certainly. It was made as humanly as possible, as humanly as it could each of the people who were at the front of the operation. And I believe that, in many cases, he was isolated from fire personnel, he was isolated from the population, and they were isolated even from the National Police. That was the reality that Galicia lived with a hurricane and with winds of 100 kilometers/hour. Ever since the wind stopped, I believe there's been control of the situation; however, it was materially impossible. We must add to this all the UME troops that were at the various points in Galicia and in those areas that we decreed situation 2. There was the whole operation, an operation that never happened in October. I was the first time the three-month staff. And I -- although I've been appointed here several times Seaga -- I want to thank you to Seaga's staff, which quickly reorganized to be operational by Sunday. [[Applause]] I think it's good -- and I have to say it here so that there is no doubt about it, and even if it hasn't been appointed, if it's a lot on social networks, and I often don't say that you're a group but just like the people who follow us feed certain falsehoods -- talk about the recalibration of the burned ground. Everyone knows that's not true; it's roundly false that they can re-alify their land after they've been burned; all the opposite: it's the prohibition to do so for at least thirty years. [[Murmurs.]] I think it was good to say it, especially because they're sending messages and sometimes that produces certain worries in the population. The level of occupation of forest fire defence personnel and forest agents in the province of Coruña was 98.59 per cent; in Lugo, 97.22 per cent; in Ourense, 96.99 per cent; in Pontevedra, 98.19 per cent; the average, 97.75 per cent. This is the reality, which you can verify and verify, and in addition to the facts. And another one of the subjects I wanted to put on the table. I would ask Mrs. Pontón not to interpret my words. Often you come with a premeditated speech and eventually you want to keep throwing the same thing until something's left in the ink. There were no layoffs, there was a renewal of contracts, that on the one hand. On the other hand, when you named Portugal, Galicia, as far as you can, in the strongest wave of fires, supported Portugal. And he supported Portugal with coordination through 112 and with fire crews, along with emergency groups as well. Of course they were grateful and of course their president tried to change his device and put his eyes on Galicia. That means we have a good device. But it's true that in the fire strike that Galicia was suffering, we can't hide that we've been seen a few kilometres from Portugal. And I don't know what the problem is in saying, and it's just that the snow fire was coming from Portugal and for the first time in history it was going through the Mine; something unheard of, but the winds were blowing, it was 100 kilometers/hour and there was a lot of dry. But not only that, is that the Jurés dragged himself into a wind that was also a kilometre from Portugal, and yesterday even went on another fire from Portugal. And that's not to demonize Portugal, that's to say we have a problem and it's a cross-border problem, and that we have to do our best to make no fires from Portugal to Galicia and Portugal. But, Mrs Pontón, there are the data, and - I could tell you - the vast majority of us go from Portugal to Galicia and not from Galicia to Portugal. And that's not demonizing, that's reality. And the only thing the president of the Galician Union did, like any one of us, was to say: in addition to the fire strike, we also have all these; and therefore we had to redistribut the territory. And we had 4 steps, 4 bulldozers, from Saturday, on the border of Portugal, because we saw that the kilometers was a very strong front, which we had to retreat to meet other populations on Sunday. That's the reality. But believe me, we're here for you to tell us, ask us. And so, even though it was all very fast, we have a lot of data to make it easier for them. We are talking about forest fires, and indeed there were forest fires, but — remember — there were fires in Lugo. And in the plots, nobody talked about plots here, nobody said: there's a plot; but if we say they're incendiary and therefore the fires are provoked. And let's not stand aside from the incendiaries. It's just that everything can be avoided if people don't set fire. And to say here and from here that there are reasons to set fire to the adverse climate conditions that we had this weekend really is to think and think back to where we want to get. There's no reason to set fire anywhere. The fire we know where it starts, we never know where it ends; there's no cause; with which we don't make ourselves complicit in the incendiaries. [[Applause]] Let's focus, and that focus is those hands that set the fire. They are murderers, no doubt, and so we have to classify them; they are murderers and terrorists; and therefore we will do everything possible to be treated that way. Look, we're talking about depopulation in rural areas and that, of course, it can favour depopulation in rural areas. But it is that Gondomar is not impoverished, and Nigrán is not impoverished, and Vigo is not impoverished, and Lugo is not impoverished, and The Crown is not impoverished; and in all these places there have been fires. But the fires are different, Mrs. Pontón, and all those fires had to be dealt with. It's just that the fireman in July was in three consecutive fires in the Coruña, he was in the Coruña city, next to Marineda, where the population is. And so I would ask all the mayors -- and you too, Mr. Villares -- that these management fringes of course between us all keep clean, because there are obligations, and those obligations are shared, are shared. And I now explain the distance, but I understand that sometimes you in the countryside are a little lost, and nothing happens, as when you were confused and said that the young lady ate the chestnuts; for it's a mistake, and it can have any one. But I now explain the difference. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The difference is that since 2009 management fringes have not been accounted for from the homes; now, since 2009, they have been accounted for from the edge of the urban or rural core. So the distances are larger. But do you realize it's not the same? [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But they take a plan, please, and see the difference between counting from a housing to counting between the radius of the urban core and the rural core. That's the reality. So, when... don't you understand? [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Tell him and if he doesn't, I'll tell him. They burned masses of all kinds. So, here, Mrs. Pontón, defender of Ence, for nothing! I am a defender of the owners of the mountains who want to plant and therefore have an economic yield, be it of eucalyptus, be it of pines, be it of oaks, be it of chestnuts. [[Applause]] It's the only thing that's being pursued, and you can give him a hundred thousand laps and do what he wants. I mean, here who's to defend is those owners who have performance. We didn't demonize anything, here burned one species and burned another species, and burnt vines. That's the reality. On the other hand, they were telling me about the RDP and subsidising the eucalyptals. In the RDP it is not contemplated, the eucalyptus are not subsidised — I said it once and a thousand times —. But it's hard to teach in society when those who are legitimate representatives believe that, or, if they don't believe it, they try to do demagogy with these facts. At the same time I heard that prevention was said to be done in the summer. Follow the Orders of the Board a little bit. At the September Council, EUR 11 million was authorized to do the prevention and forestry work by next year, starting in October until June. [[Applause]] They used to talk about the ashes and the repercussions that may come back, and what was being done today. Today it's permetriculating, today it's refreshing the areas. Today, even if there are no flames, we have fires which we understand are active due to drought and which can be reproduced. And today, in addition, I was already working the whole Government and in a very special way they're taking action against erosion, with identification, so that the entire staff of the sea is seeing if there can be any possibility, if we rain a lot, that the ashes go to sea. It's being made since today so that no mistakes will be made, as if they could be made at any other time. Having said all this, and whatever Mrs. Ponton told me she hadn't answered, I think I had answered her, because I told her about the operation, and I hope she had clarified the staff very humbly; it's just like I have to change I don't know if I'm going to be. She's committed to being humble and I think they are, but sometimes you have to look at yourself. But what's more about my humility if here's the only thing that matters is what the population thinks and the moment we're living! I want to thank all those who have been pending in one way or another, as I said earlier. And I looked at everyone and I'm sure there are people in this bench who's been hanging, that's all I'd miss! Then the recognition was for all; if anyone gives himself more or less for alluding, for I apologize from here. With this, I thank all the public employees of the Emergency and Internal Security Service of Galicia, specifically the fire fighters of the Seaga and Tragsa, and those who volunteered from these also Seaga and Tragsa; and even people who worked in fires who have now opted for another profession and who have called for incorporation; heli-transported personnel, UME military personnel, members of the State's forces and security forces, Municipal Police, Civil Protection, Health Personnel. And, of course, the population, those neighbors without which it's totally impossible to fight a fire, like fighting any other kind of adversity, if they're not the hands of the people who live in the populations. [[Applause]] Of course, thanks to President Rajoy, who has been visiting and valuing the areas — today the minister — and to the whole Government, who has been involved since the zero minute, each one within what his responsibilities are. And, like not!, our respects, our pain and our condolences to those for whom we can no longer do anything at all: Maximina, Angelina, Alberto and Marcelino. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u328	Thank you very much, Counselor. Agenda change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u329	Before we turn to item 3 of the agenda, I shall inform all Members and Members who have been removed from the motion of the En Marea Parliamentary Group through their Deputy Spokesman. We therefore begin by debating the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the care of dependent persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u330	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u331	In the past, we asked the Social Policy Adviser — who is going — about the situation of dependency, about the waiting lists for both evaluations and to receive the resource that corresponds to people after that evaluation. The adviser did not answer the questions we asked him, specific questions, simple questions, but — I insist — they did not get an answer. From the appearance we made it clear that 25 percent of the persons entitled to receive some allowance, according to the recognized dependency law, are not receiving it in Galicia. We asked him what the waiting times have been since an application was registered until, in fact, he has recourse to the plaintiff, and he has not answered us; what is the enormous delay that thousands of people in Galicia have had to enjoy the benefits, and he has not challenged us; if the human resources destined for this purpose are sufficient, and he has not given a reply; if he replaces all the staff in their absences, and has not answered; nor what is the criterion for staff policies; nor has he challenged what measures he intends to take to end that situation. And the application of the dependency law in Galicia is clearly unsatisfactory; it is unsatisfactory for users, for people who wait for an evaluation which means recognition of the benefit and for those who, after being recognized that right, wait for months and even years to receive those benefits. The report on poverty 2017 has just been published. Yesterday, the Galician Anti-Poverty Network released the report on the state of poverty in Galicia 2017, and that report reveals that nearly 700,000 people are in poverty in Galicia and that, despite a slight improvement of tens, those who maintain themselves in that poverty situation are worse. This report says that the gap between the poor population in Galicia is 26.8%, which is a higher figure in nearly 7 points — 6.9 points — than those that existed in 2008 and which denotes the worsening living conditions of the poor population in Galicia. It says the report that in 2016 the 4.1% of Galician population, that is, 111,000 people, lived in conditions of severe material deprivation. What that means is that they live with around EUR 4,100 per year, or in poverty, which are those who live with around EUR 8,000 per year. Women, youth, childhood, single-parent families and 65-year-olds are the most fragile collectives and the least likely to get out of the crisis. It refers to the frailty of people over 65. At the state level, the report alerts that the population aged 65 is the only one in which the risk of poverty and exclusion increases and that in Galicia, although only one tenth worse than the previous year 2015, remains above the state rate. 62.7% of pensions received in Galicia, i.e. 474,000 people receiving pensions, which represent 62%, have a lower amount than the poverty threshold. Of these, mostly perceived by women, 80.7% are below the poverty threshold and 30.2% are below that poverty threshold. And I bring here the collation of this data because they are of relevance to the subject matter of the motion brought here today by the Nationalist Block Galego, because Galicia is one of the state's oldest communities. The age range of people over 80 years old and who nourish the bulk of dependent people in Galicia is very high, and it is very high that of people over 65 years old, which represents 24.6%. And that's why the BNG today presents a motion in which we request the Government of Greece, firstly, to put in place immediately a plan of attention to people on the waiting list for both an evaluation and to materialize the aid they have received through the Dependency Act, with the budgetary allocation of accurate material and human resources that includes the staffing framework of the Social Policy Council and the implementation of all the actions needed to ensure a public network with the resources that people in a dependency situation need. And why are we presenting this initiative? Because it's evidence that there's delays in grade ratings. And I'm going to give you an example: a 6-year-old child with 78% disability who is requesting dependency assessment in May 2017, who enters the board record at the end of May 2017, who at the end of August, three months later, was not yet registered on dependency, so the file had not yet begun. Why am I referring to this case? Because I've already told the counsellor that there is a situation that people are registering their request in the Register of Joining and that from the Register of Joining to the Register of Dependency it turns out that they can spend at least three months, three months, when the law states that it has to be the time limit of three months for it to be resolved. Then, after three months, in many cases he didn't even enter the Unit log. For example, in the Coruña, the Joint and Unit register are in the same building. Well, it turns out you can enter the board record, which is on the ground floor, on the 1st day of a month and three months later you haven't reached the Wellness Council Unit log, which is a few floors above. With which, in particular, a 6-year-old child with 78% disability that three months later his or her application did not even reach the Unit Register. Another case: the woman sends her application in March 2017, the beginning of September continues to be unrated, and the answer is that we are still putting the data that entered in December 2016. This is the reality. Another case: woman, application registered in Unit, in this case has already exceeded the Board's record, in mid-March 2016, cited and evaluated in early August 2017, more than six months later. Or 85-year-old woman, registered in Unit in December 2015, grade solved in July 2016, eight months after taking the first step. At this point, he had no recourse. These are real cases, with names and surnames, of real people, of gales and gales who suffer from this situation. And there are delays in resources to pay that attention. Examples: Women rated in 2012 with grade 1 and today are still waiting for home help. 84-year-old woman, grade 3, 77 points, resident pendant anywhere in Galicia, since January of this year, and still has not been examined. All applicants for residence under 92 or 94 points wait more than one year; 92 or 94 points over 100, 100 is the maximum. Anyone with less than 90 points can't enter a residence resource. We're talking about 90 and something about 100 points. You can already imagine what conditions these people are in, and they can wait for a year, two or three, without providing them with resources. What are the consequences? That families, especially women, have to turn their backs on these people or that, according to the report of the State Unit Observatory, in Galicia may be more than a thousand people who die without being given a remedy. It seems clear that there is a need to increase resources, as we demand in this motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, just as we demand to increase public spending on dependency, to the very least of the average expenditure per person in the state. Public spending on dependency in Galicia, compared to the state, is much lower. We're talking about a reduction of an average of EUR 660, and less resources cannot be paid more attention. Just as we demand that the Parliament of Galicia urge the Government of Greece to address the Spanish Government and demand that the Spanish Government pay more than 150 million euros according to the provisions of the Dependency Act, and that it be called for the financing of the agreement, 50% of the expenditure on dependency care. What do we demand of this? What we demand is that the State be required to pay us the money it owes us, the more than 150 million euros that the State does not pay Galicia according to what is established in the Dependency Act, which is asked to assume 50%, as it was established, and not less than 20% that it assumes right now. We ask you to exercise the Government of Galicia and demand the Government of the State...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u332	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u333	...what we owe it to us, that we cease to submit to what Madrid says and demand what we owe it to us. It seems to us that the measures envisaged by this motion are necessary, necessary, in order for the people of the People's Party's Party's Government to receive the benefits of dependence on them with names and surnames. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u335	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, by the way, gentlemen. [[Laughter]] The first one that... I don't know if it's a cause for laughter, but for some, of course, it's neither good days nor good afternoon what we're going through these days; that's why I say it. I thought it was no longer necessary to explain it, but I see it. The first thing we're going to do now, when we start talking about dependency, is to make a temporary location, because then the People's Party comes here talking about now more dependent than in 2005, even more than in prehistory, in 1990, in 2000 and so on. Then, location, Law 39/2006, of December 14, a law driven — and I say it always with great pride — by a socialist government, that of Mr Zapatero, a law that came into force in 2007 but, as you know, it began to apply in 2008, because of the adaptations that had to be made in the autonomous communities and, above all, because there were problems with the competition issue, which they could — and it is not to be pointed out — the nationalist political parties both Basques and Catalans; there was therefore a delay in the implementation of it. [[Applause]] When we left the Government in 2009, there were 18,000 people attending, in just over a year's application of this rule. And, of course, today there are more people cared for than then, since this is a law of progressive application. But I want to go to another data, what dependents perceived in 2009 and what they perceive in 2016: 6,459 euros average in 2009; 2016, 6,041; more than 400 euros minus. The counsellor — who is a pity he is not in this debate today — when he arrived at the post, after the mismanagement of his predecessor, promised that 10,000 more dependents would be cared for. Of course, he couldn't keep this promise. He's missing 7,000. And why?, since he had a lot to do with it and he helped his friend Rajoy, with a real decree that he cut down the aid to the dependency, that he put in motion reassessments — and I want to say so, and said Mrs. Prado Cores here — in some indecent cases, and with state aids that remain without being 50%, as envisaged in the legislation itself. With Mr. Rajoy, with the People's Party, there was a reduction of 34.9 million euros in 2016, and so gradually every year. That would have paid attention to 5,800 more, almost the counsellor would be about to get to the numbers he said, the ratio to which he was going to arrive, and they would have created more than 1,500 jobs. There's a delay in evaluating people who need it for situations in their everyday life. And here in Galicia what did they do? Then act with complicity. Here the trees were increased; and no, it was not made everywhere, in Andalusia and in Asturias it was not made. And Mrs Prado Cores has already mentioned it, but I want to repeat it again, because it seems important to me: the report of the state of poverty in Galicia, which we have just met, which we know yesterday in particular. They're data from the Ministry, which says that 55.5% of retirement pensions in Galicia are people who are in poverty, and widowers' pensions, because not only are women who care, they carry the responsibility of care to dependents, but they're also marginal in terms of pensions they receive. There are 80.9% — and I think it is a very serious fact — of pensioners who are receiving widow's pensions — I know they're not all bigger — but more than 70% who are at risk of poverty. We will therefore support, Mrs Prado Cores, this initiative and all those who pick up the spirit of that Dependency Law, which we urge — I repeat: with great pride — the socialists, with that spirit of making right what up to then was simply a mere beneficence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u337	I confess to you that I do not know where to start, because I reiterate that for our group the magnitude of the tragedy experienced these days motivated the suspension of normal parliamentary activity and demanded the convening of an extraordinary plenary where the president himself realized; we are not saying that it had to be done today, but when the crisis had passed. Well, let's talk about dependency. To talk about dependence in Galicia is to take into account that we are an aging society, of the oldest in Europe, which actually motivates us to have one of the highest rates of people dependent on the state. Let me say that this larger population could be defined as what remains of a society that was naïvely peasant, the remains of a shipwreck, of a country model, which has, as we have seen these days in the fires, one of its most dramatic effects, because surely many of us ask ourselves how much we now value what a farmer or a farmer means, because we are talking about not only producing quality food in rural areas, but also keeping the territory alive. It has been said many times here: in many of these societies that have kept the territory alive, they are now older people and dependent people who do not have enough public resources in their territory, by the way, another cause of the abandonment of the rural environment. And so we can't shut down anything we're talking about today about fires, because we're talking about country model. One thing is social evolution and our territory is changing, but another thing is ethnocide, and they believe that I, yes, I also live in rural areas and I know that what we live in this country, the process that we have experienced in recent decades, is ethnocide, a dismantling of the country. They continued active this morning fires in municipalities with a high rate of population and dependent; it is there Cervantes — it has been cited — today severely punished, or Sil's Stop, one of the oldest municipalities in the whole of Galicia. By the way, that in all the municipalities in which they burned these days, if we look at the existence of public resources, of day centers or residences, in most of them there is not; hence the importance of one of the points of the motion proposed by the Nationalist Block Galego. Finally, we can also talk about the Lemos Valley, also an area where public resources are lacking. Because, Mr. Balsairos — I don't know where you are, Mr. Balsairos — lessons, none. Yesterday even the people of En Marea were beating their bodies in the fires of Monforte or the Poor Brollon, where there were no means; Mr. Davide Rodríguez was practically two nights without sleeping extinguishing fires; lessons, none, to no one. It's obvious that people of all political colors have been throughout the country helping to fight the fires, those people who could or have the physical characteristics in which they can collaborate and not interfere. Because that's another: we don't all have to be at the foot of the fires either, we won't interfere with the work of the professionals, to whom we repeat these days, of course, the recognition of their work and also to the voluntary people in all the parishes that had to go out to supply the lack of means, because there was a lack of means and there was panic in much of the population. That is why we reiterate: we do not believe that today was the day to keep parliamentary activity normal. But finally, let's talk about dependent people in Galicia. In this Parliament today I think talking about dependent and older people is also talking about those older people who passed by yesterday's fear, yesterday's early, these days, afraid of rural nuclei surrounded by fire, but not only those who had to be evacuated, but also older people in many villages who, seeing the news that they were initially kidnapped in the public media, began to panic. Because we're talking about nuclei protection strips today, but is it true that the Mountain Law is being fulfilled? Is it possible that the distances are being met in this country? Anyway, those older people, those dependent people, for whom this motion is here today, were afraid these days. We reiterate that it is not time to maintain normal parliamentary activity; it was not time to have hijacked the information and put Land Rober and Serramoura on the TVG's main channel. Look, two people yesterday, two women — women well know that they are the most unemployed in the role of caregivers, the ones most responsible for these dependent people; in Galicia we also have a very high percentage of women, already older, in charge of dependent people — in Monforte's demonstration — were not dangerous radicals, they moved me, because today there was a full issue for Feijóo—not I say, they moved me—that less tears of crocodile; it's true that yes, fire terror, but less tears of crocodile and more means. A sort of State terrorism can also be the dismantling of a country. So you apply the story of the people who went out on the street yesterday in fear, because there was fear, much of the biggest, dependent one, and we put a deep debate on changing the country model on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u338	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u339	Thank you, Mr. President. A few days ago in this House we celebrated the debate about the state of Autonomy, a debate in which the People's Parliamentary Group offered a great deal of agreement to the Galician Nationalist Block, an agreement in which we urged the Galician Union to promote a global strategy to improve the system of dependency care; an agreement with specific actions, actions to change the system of dependency financing, which take into account the services provided and the cost in accordance with the specific features it has, such as the percentage of the largest and the dispersion of the population; an agreement in which we talked about demanding the Government of the State the increase in funds to meet the objective of the financing established in the Dependency Act; an agreement in which we demand the Government of the State more funding to improve services and benefits; and an agreement in which we made the Government of the State more funding to be able to meet those persons who have recognized the dependency situation and who are waiting. We also offered an agreement to continue strengthening the home aid service, through the municipalities, distributing the number of hours meeting the real needs of each of these municipalities, and an agreement to extend the public network of day centres and residence services. But you have rejected that agreement on the improvement of the law of dependence in our community. You refused to come to an understanding to improve the system of dependence on our community. We believe that a new system of dependency financing is needed. You know that the Government of the State has failed to comply with its obligation set out in that 50% funding law. The Union currently finances 72% of the system; the State, 28%. But not this year: since the establishment of the Dependency Act, the Government of the State has failed to fulfil its obligation as a percentage of this funding. What did he do to Galician Union? So increase your share, so that you can cover that funding deficit, specifically at EUR 210 million. In 2017 the Galician Union allocates 336 million euros to care for dependent people, and how it cannot be compared in this Parliament as it was intended in 2009 and what it is now intended to do, what we are going to do is to talk about what the People's Party Union has increased since 2010. In 2010, EUR 24.1 million increased funding for dependency; in 2011 it increased by EUR 4.3 million; in 2013, EUR 117.6; in 2014, EUR 24 million; in 2015, EUR 14 million; in 2016, EUR 13 million more; and in 2017, another 13 million more. We're talking about that since the People's Party's leadership in Galicia has done nothing but increase the budget of the Dependency Law to meet all those people who are in a situation and who need help and who are protected by a law. This budgetary effort to care for people in a dependency situation translates into one that more people could be cared for. Specifically, at this time the state's ratio of care is 71% and Galicia's ratio of care is 75.8%. By the way, in 2009 the ratio was 30%; we would do something good since the People's Party ruled Galician Union. What's a lot left to do? Yes, but it never refused. Even the counsellor in that inquiry made sure it's still to be done. But with that effort made by the Galician Union, what was achieved is that, in the meantime, only 30% of these people were cared for, now nearly 76% of those who need it. By the way, there is another commitment by the president of the Galician Union in that debate of the state of autonomy: that Galicia will move from 14,000 dependents attended in 2009 to 60,000 dependents attended in 2018. And that only increases budgets and when a Union is committed to compliance with that law. It is also necessary to strengthen the home help service. In 2017 this service increased its budget by 10 million euros and reached 59 million euros. In 2009 you spent 20 million euros. Today more than 20,700 people receive the home aid service, and in 2010 they received the home aid service 4,125 people. In addition, the home aid service has been strengthened with more than 1 million hours a year and funding and an increase of 2.6 million euros. By the way, it is also necessary to expand the public network of centers, but today Galicia has about 15,000 public squares in residences and day centers, 35% more of the public squares that were in 2009, and residences are being planned in seven large cities, to which more than 72 million euros will be allocated. This is the agreement that the People's Party offered in the debate of the state of autonomy if you wanted to speak seriously about dependence. And you rejected this agreement. When we reject this agreement, we ask ourselves: will you now accept a point vote, because I think it is important to speak seriously about dependency. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u341	It is not new that Members of the People's Party do a reinterpretation of reality as appropriate. It turns out that Mrs Rodríguez has just done a reinterpretation of what was the debate on the state of the nation, where the Nationalist Block Galego makes a motion for a resolution in very similar terms to this motion. And it turns out the People's Party wants to disturb her and turn her into a light knife. And it turns out it was the People's Party that made an offer of not knowing what! Home!, a little respect, Mrs. Rodríguez, a little respect. [[Applause]] The motion of the BNG is made for resources and for demands and demands that the Government of the State be exacted as appropriate, which ceases to be a Government submitted on the basis of a reality. And the reality is that 25 percent of the people entitled to a benefit, a resource based on the Dependency Act, in Galicia are not receiving it. What the reality is that the Spanish State owes Galicia more than 150 million euros according to the Dependency Act, and that they demand it, that it be demanded to pay them. That's what a Government would do that wasn't a territorial delegation of the Government of Madrid, a government that wanted to provide resources, services, quality services to its population. Is this one of the points that you don't want to vote, Mrs Rodríguez, which says the state had to be paying 50% of the cost of the Dependency Act, and you're not contributing even 20%? You said this in the previous plenary session, Counsellor, that Galicia is contributing 80% and the state 20%. Then we claim 50% will be normal. Aren't they the ones who collect? Aren't they the ones who have the key to the box, aren't they the ones who decide? Aren't they the ones who decide what to do with the resources that we pay the Greeks and the Greeks? You're comfortable on that stage. They don't want to change the rules of the game; they don't want us to have instruments to act in reality; they don't want us to have tools to collect, to be able to put the tax burden that we consider appropriate, to then be able to allocate the money to the public services of our citizens. They don't want that, they don't want to demand Madrid to pay for the money they collect in Galicia. They don't want one thing or the opposite. Well, the reality is that there is a waiting list, the reality is that there are people who wait for months and years to be evaluated, the reality is that there are people who wait for months and years to receive a resource. So, what does BNG ask? Resources, materials, personnel, if you claim to the State, that we have a cost per person equivalent to the average State. They seem more reasonable to us. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know very well that this downturn of ratios does not correspond to the provision of quality resources. You know perfectly well that the residential squares have come down, they have not stopped diminishing since you've been in government. And they know very well that caregivers around the family are no longer funded to be discharged into Social Security. And you know very well that you, Madam in particular, have often drawn up in this gallery saying that, for example, libraries were a resource that was not a major resource, and that what was to be done was public resources. [[Mr Prado Cores addresses Mrs Rodríguez Arias.]] Yes, it's here in the Session Diary. It's what you have, things are recorded! And it turns out that now to go down the waiting lists, what they do is to rip them down to the base of libraries, to be dislodged from what you said, to be dislodged. But what did you count on?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u342	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u343	With tales of misery, and above all tales of misery for women, which is the worst of this matter. With which I don't know exactly what part of this motion you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party don't want to vote. We think they're reasonable each and every one of them. And I want to thank both the support shown by the Socialist Party and En Marea for this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the losses caused by extreme climatic conditions in the agricultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u345	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u346	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u347	Thank you very much, President. Since we've been debating here the question of what this motion is, the truth is that in the rural of Ourense province, things have changed, situations have changed. If the day we were discussing it we were talking about the difficult weather conditions, the result of these conditions faced by farmers, farmers and beekeepers, particularly in the province of Ourense, but also in other parts of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, that's what we have to add to the drama they have suffered these days. Besides, they're going to have to face a terrible situation in the coming weeks and months. Look, ladies and gentlemen, no one can blame a government for climate change; that's a collective responsibility. But if you don't fight it, and especially if you don't adapt your policies to this phenomenon. This is seen by the lack of help to alleviate the damage in rural areas to which I am referring. And we've seen him these last few days also in Ourense province, with neighbors and neighbors shutting down the fire with everything they could, trying to save their animals, and I set as an example that neighbour of Avia's Carballeda. By the way, I make a request from here that if any member of the People's Party can answer it: if anyone has contact with the President of the House of Ourense, we would very much appreciate having called the mayor of Carballeda de Avia, because after the difficult night that passed the other day, after the difficult time of the other day, the House of Ourense did not put a single half or call to interest itself, not this mayor, but the neighbours and neighbours of Carballeda de Avia needed something from this institution. [[Applause]] This government wasn't even expecting you. And unfortunately the mayors and mayors are very used to it, those of all political signs. And I mean it and I want to emphasize it: it's been a long time behind the problems of rural life. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, today in particular, were equally demanding in the opposition as incompetent in the Government over this wave of fires. Ladies and gentlemen, the bottom of all this, the bottom of the fire strike, is that rural life does not exist; it does not exist for this government until there is a catastrophe, and sometimes not so. In the past, we questioned the advisor, as I told you, about these aids, about the damage caused, and we did it because trade union organizations have been trying to contact her for months; they did it in writing, by telephone, publicly, but they still do not receive any kind of response. And even in the previous plenary session, he sent a letter to the Middle Rural Counsellor asking him for help. In the face of this SOS that throws from our country, our Government always responds in the same way: with indifference. In addition to the consequences of frost and hail, drought is shaking the present and the future of many people, it is transforming that country of the thousand rivers into a desert. You know, ladies and gentlemen, we've been in advance from January 13 till the warning was declared dry at the beginning of this month in six demarcations. This is, according to the techniques and techniques of the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, the driest hydrological year since 1982. This situation extends throughout the province of Ourense and by the autonomous community. But in particular, I want to refer today to an area that is particularly devastated by this phenomenon, which is the eastern part of Ourense province, and to put them, ladies and gentlemen, specific examples of people who are experiencing it. For example: John. This is a 25-year-old boy who's spent a year and a half ago on raising sheep in an ecological way. He did it with a lot of illusion, and especially because he wants to live in the countryside and wants to be there. He's devastated because his sheep are breaking as they can in the gestures. Antonio, an experienced glove whose cows have been devouring the fodder reserves for weeks; those which should not be touched until winter comes in. Or Mary, the midwife who wrote that letter to the counsellor. A girl who's been in charge of a farm that's been receding for decades by her family, who's got to get water for these months to drink their cows, spending about 10,000 litres of water a week. By the way, Mary had just lost all the chestnut trees she had and her family. And I could put them, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of examples. Like that beekeeper who used to pick up about 12,000 pounds of honey, and this year with a little luck will stay at 5,000. Or the reduction or absence of that extra income from chestnuts, too. They are concrete examples, but there are already some evaluations, such as the one made by the Union of Agricultural Unions, which in the case of winegrowers the losses are estimated to rub the 15 million euros as a result of the frost in April and the stone of August. They are people who will not only have no income, but will have to deal with an increase of between 10% and 15% in taking care of that second outbreak after the frost. In view of this situation, what does the Government do? So he's doing press rounds after the board of assembly and doing what we've already seen called "the deferred teletend," that is, they sell the president's hand measures that are already in progress, which have already been approved earlier; nothing new under the sun for these people. What do we propose? Well, you help directly. That's what union organizations are asking for. And that's why they called a demonstration on November 18 in Santiago, where the PSdEG will be, as it couldn't be any other way. It wouldn't be the first time they've been granted. It was done when the damage was caused in the Sacred River in 2016. Of course, then there were elections. But I ask them to think that for the next month, when they're going to vote, there's elections, to see if we get an affirmative vote. And establish lines of the Igape too. And that urgent plan, in collaboration with Fegamp, the ecological and agricultural organizations, which should have been on the move for a long time in the fight against drought. And we ask that formulas be sought to allow these agricultural insurance to be adapted to the reality of the productive structure and ownership of the primary sector in Galicia. We do this because the new policies do not increase the percentage of subsidies, and not just that, but there is a 10% reduction on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture. We also want to remember today that the European Union is allowing agricultural policies to be subsidised to 65%, and we are currently 40%. And we ask you to also ask your friend Government, the Government of Spain, for the 90% of Social Security quotas to be awarded a bonus from the Ministry of Labour, the reduction by the Ministry of Farming of Modules to the affected sectors and the emergency zone declaration that we have been claiming for many months for those areas where the conditions required for this are met. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is at stake — although it may seem to them an exaggeration — the livelihood of many families, families who see their exploits at risk. And the worst thing is, we're not talking about the present, we're also talking about the future, it's also at risk that many new incorporations in mountain and disadvantaged areas are on their way. That is why I ask them to support this initiative. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u349	Well, I have to say, before I focus on this question that affects very importantly Ourense, that I feel, really, absolutely ashamed of some of the issues that have been heard here about an hour ago. I think it's an absolute disrespect for all the people we've been worried about these days, and I don't doubt that you've been on this side as well. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos goes to the popular bench.]] [[Applause]] I'm not going to get into certain issues, but I'm just going to say one thing and especially you, yes, especially you. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos addressed the Counsellor for the Rural Environment.]] I wasn't a Member in 2006, I wasn't there, but of course I told you that during all these days I haven't stopped remembering the comrades and companions I personally know of Ourense, like some of those who were quoted here today, like Teresis, like Alberte Blanco, like Alfredo himself. I kept thinking about them, and also about what other members of that government might have thought about, and the evil that had to happen to them. And, of course, I also thought of the evil that had to be going on in the government itself, because if I was absolutely desperate, I don't want to imagine also the people of the Government. And I put my hand on the fire by all those people in the management of the Bipartite, with all their mistakes and all their successes; those people I've learned so much from in politics, and ethics above all; that all those people none of them were thinking of any kind of manifestation of joy, not much less, so you were going through, of course not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u350	It's all right, Mrs. Presas. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u351	Of course not. Of course the story will put everyone in their place, but from here my recognition for the ethical and moral heights also of all my companions and companions. [[Applause]] And if you don't like it, because I don't like hearing certain issues either, which I think have been far out of the political debate and which from my respect to Mr Santalices should have interrupted. [[Applause]] Well, just tomorrow we'll also talk more deeply about the BNG initiative on the drought problem. But precisely it has a very negative impact on municipalities like the ones that have been spoken of, like Viana do Bolo, like A Veiga, as a conso vilar. It has a particularly negative impact on this whole drought that we are living as a country, because first of all, climate conditions, which are not meteorological, very specific to the Oresan climate, especially the East and the South; and secondly, the high recurrence year after year of fires. And, as you will know — as I have read from the findings of the 2006 Research Commission — the repeat of the fires has a very negative impact on the soil and on the recovery capacity. To this plugin we had different climate problems this year. First, the frost came in April, and since then, not yet able to predict a drought like the one we suffered, the expert people and the people who work and live from the cattle warned that this situation could bring complications in the medium and long term, not only in the immediate future. It's true that at that time we had a very important concern, especially in the wine sector, like, in a province like ours with so many designations of origin. It's true that it was what was most of his spectacular attentions, but there were other consequences in the medium and long term as well. Since then — I have an interview with Campo Galego, a reference portal for the field of June 21 and one of the people interviewed said: "The lack of precipitation, along with abnormally high temperatures and frost these weeks, is resulting in a loss of grass, which is the basis of livestock feeding in this area." And he went on to say, "The worst may still be about to arrive: the lack of water for the cattle, which has already begun to scarce in some areas." This was in June 2017. I put this example, in particular, because it doesn't give me time to talk about all the sectors affected, but to launch an important reflection from the Galician Nationalist Block, which is the lack of foresight and the policy of abandonment of the Greek Government. Lack of foresight, policy of abandonment, and now, above all, a storm of advertising by the way to the coup d'dog. Well, you issued an order last week of non-helps, which are soft credits from the Igape, whose term ends on Friday. [[Applause]] That's why the first of our amendments to improve the Socialist Group's proposal, which we share with general features and which are the demands that trade unions are launching, is expanding the count, because you talk a lot about 3.5 million, but the initial credit is 500,000, even though they say it's amplable. But they also say that if the count is exhausted, you can no longer compete for those credits; it's a bit confusing. So, therefore, and more in the face of these circumstances, more content is available and more time-limits to be able to subscribe to these aids, especially since potential users have been extinguishing fires this weekend. And secondly, we also have a proposal to improve the Socialist Party's motion to get direct help for the extraordinary costs of food, livestock and beekeeping, because they can't wait another month — as they're saying — to see if they help advance the CAP aid. Claws and gloves and other sectors can no longer wait a month for that to happen, if this is the case. And besides, we should also be starting to talk in this context about how we're going to feed,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u352	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u353	...for example, wild animals that are now disoriented, as are demanded by environmental organizations. Tomorrow we can talk more often to the thread of the BNG initiative in different sectors. But we reiterate: in the face of extraordinary circumstances, extraordinary measures and answers are required. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u354	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u355	Thank you, President. "Junta's laughing at us. Takes some measures that the only thing they basically intend to do is to get well in the press. If the president and the advisor are not able to perform their role -- which in this case is to respond to the entire agricultural sector in the face of the drought problem -- "they should resign and let more qualified people perform this function." It is the words of John, who has previously appointed the companion of the Socialist Party, a young man from Vilarino de Conso, gandre. Last year he made a new incorporation, put in three hundred sheep, had to sell fifty to buy food to hold him back what's left of the year. Here a server -- I'm not inventing it, believe me -- sees the production of chestnuts diminish because of ice cream in 80%. In Marea he visited the drought-affected areas, gathered and accompanied the affected ones and recorded initiatives. In Marea, there's little interest in the dryness of the People's Party; at least I haven't had a solution yet. The representative of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, Noa Presas, said a reality that many people in this House forgot to see bottled up yesterday in the street of Horreo: that Lugo and Ourense were still burning, and still today they are still burning; in the municipalities of the eastern oresan, from the zero part of the drought, is burning. It may be that throughout today's day all the fires that have been extinguished, but the damage that has been done to our land will remain there for many years. The PP sends the mayors and their charges an argument to speak of "incendiary terrorism." You send one of how to improvise, which unfortunately these days have shown you know enough. [[Applause]] Now I'm going to read the statement of a mayor who isn't his, he's a town council affected by the drought: "These are the forest policies of the People's Party: a fire that sweeps hundreds of acres of hectares in the town of Cernado. To fight it, a brigade with three workers, of shame, and a forest agent who didn't know the territory, more than one hundred and fifty hectares. Thanks to some 20 neighbors in the area who didn't let the fire go into town -- and to him with the bomb -- there we were until five in the morning that the danger passed. These are Mr Feijóo's policies in rural areas"—the legislation of rural areas, disks. "It gives me real disgust that they can fill their mouths with so much impunity from the world," the Mayor of Manzaneda. The only mayor the People's Party today has in a city in Galicia, Mr. Vázquez Abad, said yesterday in a well-known social network: "It's not time to manifest itself, it's time to help those who cry when they lose everything. On the street, yes, but to help," this time without selfie. Here's the picture that you hate so much, that's Mr. Feijóo's -- I'll get it back, they'll be sick of seeing it, they can observe it with a Armani model of a thousand and something, I don't know. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez shows a photograph in the Chamber.]] And here we have a mayor at 5:00 a.m. on top of a motorcycle trying to save the furniture from the incompetence of Galician Union to cut forest fires. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez shows another photograph in the Chamber.]] [[Applause]] The right to manifest ourselves freely for now has not yet been taken from us. Yesterday we screamed angrily and angrily shouted, "Lumes, never again!" from all over the country. But we haven't been alone in the streets, we've been in our mountains, in our villages working around, just like many of the members of the People's Party, like many of the Galician Nationalist Block, and like many of the PSOE. Don't hang up your medals alone, please. It was shameful the logistical communication response that gave Galician Union to this plague of fires. He lacked foresight, he lacked management, there was left behind by the board, they hid data and tricked people; human, economic, ecological and social losses that will be irrecoverable. Today Galicia has a politicized extinction system, where all that matters is political profitability and its fire business. Sierra do Jurés, Black, The Snows or The Ancares, countless places affected by forest fires, protected natural spaces, natural parks, biosphere reserves, ecosystems of great economic and environmental value. There were no means or materials or humans, and these areas were completely torn apart in an uncontrolled way. And if there were no more losses, it was thanks to the professionalism of the workers and the workers, of the forest brigades — of which I am a part — that — you believe me — are nothing in line with their policies or their employment situation. Thousands of hectares burned, but also the loss of important forest ecosystems, calcined hectares, and the low-minimum Galician Forest Service, due to the incompetence and neglect of the leaders of the People's Party Government. We've spent the whole year with uncovered casualties and retirements, forest firefighters, forest agents, environmental agents, motorcycle bombers, forest districts without a single active fire surveillance tape, forest brigades with only one component, 20-year-old auto bombers and they're broken.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u356	Finish up, please; we're at the limit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u357	Between 600 and 800,000...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u358	We're at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u359	...—Final president—those employed by the Spanish Army to do surveillance work, at the same time that they eliminate the category of mobile vigilantes or a body with personal acquaintances to 100 percent of our territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u360	We're at the limit. Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u361	And now I'm going to leave us with a member of the People's Party, who will bring us here a list of advertisements for the owners of our drought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u362	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u363	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rodríguez, I appreciate that you anticipate what I'm going to talk about, maybe I'll talk about something else. It is true that I come today—well, each one has his own way of dress—of dress and tie, but I was also in forest fires yesterday. But it's just that you're specialists in rocking and hiding your hand, because in the morning it was said that only a part of the hemicycle was caring for people. And we've been at the people's feet, and we've also been at the feet of our families and our properties in the countryside, and there we've been defending them. [[Applause]] I picked up last night from Quins -- what I knew about Melon's Town Hall -- and went up to Avia's Carballeda. [[Applause]] By the way, I want to point out here my gratitude to the mayor of Carballeda de Avia for the reference he made to our visit, that of Caesar and mine, on Monday morning. A gentleman who did a great job and who's been fighting for his neighbors all night. I think it's a little worrying that you're talking only about the President of the Parliament when the Consortio de Emergencias da Deputación had all its means at the disposal of all mayors and municipalities in Ourense province. I think it's a bit strong that you're making such a mention. I repeat: there are people we've seen here dressed up, we talk about this way I can have myself and so on, but we live rural and we suffer rural. I haven't been sleeping on Sunday night waiting for the wind not to turn around and come to burn in the vineyards of the whole Ribeiro. Look, I also want to tell you one thing, that it's about political use -- and I'm going to get into the motion because today's the time to talk about the motion, the work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u364	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u365	Call us... because I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u366	I'm quiet because we're at the limit in both cases and we're not going now... in both cases. Well, don't I know how to distinguish now, or what? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u367	Mr. Rodríguez, it's hard to understand from this part of the Chamber that you can talk about there being no political use in demonstrations where the head of the placard was, "He made it equal to fire." I defend here the dignity of the president of the board, of the vice president, of the councillor and, of course, of Mr. Balsairos as well. Of course! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And by the way, we're talking -- as the advisor pointed out very well -- of tremendous climatic circumstances. Look, I'm going to give you just a few facts: six days of uncontrolled fire, more than forty dead, more than seventy thousand evacuees, more than two hundred missing, more than eighty-five thousand hectares, five thousand seven hundred buildings destroyed. Do you know where this is? In California, the state that has the best fire control system in the United States. More than 4,000 people there and the entire Army, and no fire will be stopped. We've been living in extreme weather conditions. And those who have been on the fire these days — and I have been — know perfectly well what we are talking about. In the case of the motion, because, Mrs. Presas, when I got here yesterday too, I had to get to work, because I was in the same situation as you, I was very worried. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But we have to do here a job for what we are paid by the Greeks and the Greeks, which is to defend the motions and, if so, discuss them. And I'm going to try to argue because I am breaking this motion. First of all, I have to tell you... yes, yes, I know it's Mrs. Noela Blanco's. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I have to tell you... that you must not be very coordinated with Mr Quiroga and the people of the 7th Commission, you must not be very coordinated, because much of the measures you take in the motion have already been discussed in the committee and, of course, also in the plenary, but specifically in the committee. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is a GNP, which was discussed in the committee on 26 May, of the PP, where most of the proposals to raise this motion were already collected there. [[Murmurs.]] And do you know who voted in favour of this LNP? [[Murmurs.]] The PP, the other groups have abstained, Mr. Quiroga. I don't know if you remember. Igape's credit lines, which have already been approved — by the way, Mrs Presas, the deadline is until November 15, must be read the full order; it is the 20th to ask for help and the 15th November to sign financial operations with banks — and to put in place an urgent plan with Fegamp, ecological and agricultural organizations with concrete measures to fight drought. We have the Council report of 11 October 2017 on all these measures. And I can't finish my speech without talking about a subject on which I ask you, please, prudence and it's very serious. He spoke of losses of wine growers of 15 million euros. Do you have the source denomination data? Look, Monterrey, 2,800,000 kilograms, 100 percent of the average of the last ten years; D.O. Ribeira Sacra, 5,400,000 kilograms, one hundred percent of the average of the last ten years; D.O. Ribeiro, nine and a half million kilograms, 73% of the average of the last decade — the last ten years, which, by the way, the people who live in rural areas know that it is the average we have to take in agricultural holdings —; Valdeorras, 4.180,000, which is 77%. Don't you know that if there's no loss above 30%, we can't even talk about emergency zones? I ask you here, now I will hear your answer, but I ask you to be careful about the wine growers and the wine sector. We're talking about people who live...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u368	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u369	...of this subject and it's very dangerous to be saying things that don't correspond to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u370	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Motion author group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u371	Thank you very much, President. The first to say that we will accept the amendment of the BNG, which it does is to complete our initiative, and to thank the support of this parliamentary group, also of En Marea and I believe that the People's Party, since it has already appeared, is already being done, will you vote in favour? Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, of course, as already discussed... And the truth is that it's true: we didn't see each other in the fires, we didn't agree, and we didn't come to the Greek TV because I don't go out too much, and I don't call the public media when I'm going to see a fire, nor do I call the media so that they take pictures of me next to my mayors, or pictures of the neighbors and neighbors when they're going through very hard times. I don't do it, neither do any of my mates. These days, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, people have suffered, Mr. Pazos, of all political colour. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I'm convinced that the mayors of the People's Party were just as desolate as the mayors of the GSP, that the mayors of the Galician Nationalist Block, and that the mayors of En Marea, exactly the same. And Members and Members, my colleagues and colleagues have been, we have been with our mayors and we have been in rural areas, of course, yes in many towns, in particular the province of Ourense. What happens is that we don't do advertising and propaganda, because we're not going to interfere, or take the picture, we're going to do what Mr Baltar hasn't done, even if he repeats again to the honourable Member that he is. But the institution did not do so after the councils closest to the citizens, which is the House of Ourense. There were no means of the Ourense Deputy in the Avia Carballeda fire. No, there were no means. [[Murmurs.]] And the middle of the board came about four o'clock in the morning. But there will be enough time to talk about political responsibilities and what happened these days. It is true that the measures put in place by the People's Party were made: water supply establishment; water supply structures are now being included in the plans for improvement. Other outstanding insurance lines are the same amount, Your Honor, 4.7 million euros this year as in 2016. The aid lines to facilitate funding were 10 million euros and were left in 500,000. PAC's aids are not in progress, they are simply charged when they have to be charged without any delay. And let me tell you something already to finish my speech. I don't know if it's because I, like Mr. Rodríguez and Mrs. Presas, belong to a generation that grew up unfortunately with their positive things under cover, we're the generation of Never More, that generation that saw how our backs were filled with hats, but I'm tremendously proud... I was yesterday at those demonstrations, although the mayor of Ourense and the members of the People's Party don't like them, and what made me proud yesterday was to see boys and girls who weren't even born when many of us were shouting "Never more!"and yesterday they screamed at him. The seed, which is what concerns you... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u372	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u373	...of the future, of environmental awareness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u374	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u375	...is there and not stop growing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u376	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u377	After the debate on motions was closed, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores. The vote was requested by points, which were not accepted... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're going to talk about it, about the point vote, Mrs Prado. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u378	Yes, yes, a point of vote is accepted. Don't I know what point you want to vote separately?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u379	You want to vote, according to Mrs Rodríguez Arias, number 3 and number 6. Let us vote first of all on numbers 3 and 6 of this motion. We vote. Vote of points 3 and 6 of the G.P. Motion. by Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores, on the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of attention to dependent people. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57. The voting is positive. As a result, these two points of the motion are adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u380	We vote for the rest of the motion points. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. by Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores, on the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the care of dependents, apart from the points already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u381	And now we are voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Ms Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the losses caused by extreme climatic conditions in the agricultural sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u382	Open the doors, please. We continue with the debate on agenda item 4, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the execution of the railway line and high-speed infrastructures in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u383	A self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was introduced to this motion for a non-law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u384	Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u385	Thank you, Mr. President. Perhaps today it is right with the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we will debate establishing a historical parallelism between the fire and the railway in Galicia. A recent history of fire and rail with a known protagonist who has changed arguments, accounts and positions depending on the personal situation: opposition or government in Galicia and opposition or government of the People's Party in Madrid. In both of these issues, we saw chameleon changes that were difficult to explain and impossible to understand. The fire, the recent history of the fire in Galicia is marked by the 2006 fire strike with Mr. Núñez Feijóo as leader of the opposition and Mr. Touriño as president; and the October 2017 fire strike being Mr. Feijóo president of the Union. I'm not going to transcribe the statement by the opposition leader in 2006, because it disgusts me with his reproduction. But if I want to say that then for the People's Party it was incompetence of the Government, now incompetence is external: climatelogy, Portugal, the municipalities, the owners... how many pharisaism in the justifications! [[Applause]] And the history of the fire in Galicia repeated eleven years later unfortunately to let the discovery of a shameful way of doing politics, also to teach us a lesson. In rural, we always say to people released, little reflexive: "Don't spit up, you never know." In 2006 Mr. Núñez Feijóo spat up and these days he has the answer to that daring. A lesson we must learn from the fire not to make the same mistakes with the railway. The railroad is history too. In Galicia it's a history of lost times. The first line was built twenty-five years after the first line in Spain. Galicia was connected to the rest of the state network thirty-five years after the construction began in the Spanish ensemble in 1883; the line was The Coruña-Madrid. And we've reached the second generation, the generation of high rail speed. I want to be honest in my intervention and that's why I want to remember -- don't hurt my clothes -- that in the Spanish high-speed network the first design and the first budgetary commitments were developed in 2001 ruling the People's Party. And it's also true that the Galician Plan of 2003 introduced a certain acceleration in those plans. The truth is, with important deficits, such as Mr. Álvarez Cascos' project, which included a stretch of the single line between Ourense and Olmedo, which perverted the term "high rail speed". With Mr Aznar as President, Mr Fraga as President and Mr Feijóo as Infrastructure Adviser, Transistence and Silence. We were in the year 2003. Today, fourteen years later, with similar protagonists in the fire and the railroad, the ghosts continue on a similar situation: the single-way stretch remains present in citizenship. In 2004 Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero arrived at the Government of Spain and in 2005 he arrived at the Government of Galicia Mr. Touriño. It's already in 2006, the year that coincides with the wave of fires. And just as it happened with the fires, the complacency, the silence and silence on the deficiencies of the high rail speed to Galicia with the governments friends of previous years called and became a demanding and irrational push of the People's Party, with Mr. Feijó at his head trying to recover the lost times into pleasures and silences. We recall Mr Feijóo's claim for release in the years 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 and 2011, already as president. In that case, Mr. José Blanco and the President of the Board, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, in June 2009, was "an essential fact" — in the speech of the President — "for the economic and social development of this autonomous community". This claiming position was once again miraculously changed in 2011 when Mr. Rajoy arrived at the Spanish Government. A new transmutation of Mr. Feijóo by turning the demands into complicities; no longer denying the actions, the budgets, the budget executions, no longer denying the palpable advances in view of Mr. José Blanco's time, nor depicting the invisible advances with Mr. Rajoy. Now it doesn't matter any more about the Workers' Pact as a guide for actions for Galicia's economic and social development, or the calendar of the said plan; it doesn't matter any more about the calendars of bilateral meetings to follow up; it doesn't matter about a public agenda of the AVE that government, media and citizens can evaluate and control evolution in the works. Transparency was replaced by opacity, order by disorder, rigour by submission, the interest of the Greeks and the Greeks in the interest of the People's Party. We recognize that there has been a situation of severe economic crisis, but from 2011 until today the Socialist Party has never asked for more budgets for AVE. We call for more execution, greater diligence in the works, greater negotiation with companies in the subject of project modification, but never more budgets. What we want, what we demand is that the Government of Galicia defends for Galicia a high-speed high-speed stroke that is perfectly acceptable to AVEs from the rest of Spain. This non-law proposal has exactly to do with the German Government's political position. The Greek socialists believe that during Mr. Rajoy's first legislation there was a shameful silence of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and we believe that there is currently a strategic conquest of the popular governments of Spain and Galicia that harms the Galicians and the Greeks. Strategy based on unbelievable unrealistic issues, such as, for example, that great works are very complex and have many problems. It's true, but they were already complex and in trouble in 2004, in 2005, in 2006, in 2011 and now also in 2017. It does not seem that the variable complexity influenced Mr Feijóo's demands to the German and state governments of the Socialist Party, it did not seem sensitive to this variable at that time, nor did it seem sensitive to the costs of infrastructure. He did as he said then, December 2005: "The board can't ask what is ours," referring to the AVE; of course, Mr. Tourinño ruled. March 2006: "Galice will be the last community in high-speed train". December 2007: Feijóo demands 50% more investment for AVE and calls for connection to the Meseta to be operational in 2016. September 2008: "I will be implacable in the defence of the arrival of the AVE to Galicia and in which commitments are met. No one will stop me in the defence of Galicia's interests." These demands and commitments have not been heard when governments preside over them by the People's Party. They sound to excuses of ill-paying and more partisan interests than real justifications. We should know that the current situation of difficulty in reaching the high-speed railway line in Galicia is not a problem of complexity, nor is it a budgetary problem, it is a problem of definition, of adjudication and execution, it is a problem of non-execution of budget games. From 2012 to 2017 there were no €2.2 billion recorded in those annual budgets. In the 2017 budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u386	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u387	440 million euros have not been executed. At this point in the 2018 year-end they remain unencumbered around 70% of the resources dedicated to the Italian AVE. And while this is spending the year with the Government, my friend, Mr President, and shut up. This is the initiative of the Socialist Group, that Galicia has no waivers, in a situation of equality with the rest of the country, that the variant of Ourense is irrevocable, of regaining the lost time by incorporating into the 2018 budgets the unexecuted one in the previous and present years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u388	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u389	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We are in a debate about the railway and the AVE which focuses on the question of the calendar, which at this point seems a rather misleading debate, which we understand distorts the intention of the main issues, because, in the end, we are talking about whether 2018, if 2019, if 2020; we are talking about how many years of accumulated delay we will add, if they are going to be ten, if they are going to be sweet, if they are going to be fourteen, if we are going to reach thirty years since the first State AVE arrived in Seville. So we're talking about a history of failures, delays and deceptions, although there are some who prefer to call it "date slips," and you're very given to the slips, also those slips of plastic threads in a vertical direction. This is also a story — we can say — of sentimental flows, of emotional flows of Mr. Feijóo, who has just felt that loving emotion, that arrow of the Drunken in July of 2009, when that solemn announcement that the works were to end in 2015, and then came the departure, the breakup of that relationship; it must have been because the elections of the year 2011 came and had to stage that rupture. But, of course, then there came a new government in the state and they announce again, solemnly, the completion of the works that were armoured for the year 2015, and it's already been a few years since 2015 and now it tells us about 2019 or who knows, because 2019 is in period of testing. So, what we're telling you -- we've told you more than once -- is that you should apologize for this succession of failures and deceptions. And it is also a story — we can say — of political bipolarity suffered by Mr. President of the Union, that at times they attack him with an attitude of extreme belligerence and in other cases of submission and vassalage, depending on who governs Madrid. When another party reigns because furious attacks, and when they attack theirs, he pleads, submission, justification of all that is to be justified, of all the delays of Mr. Feijó's governments. And those delays have to do with the low execution of budgets, which in 2015 reached 40% more in the case of AVE works, and therefore have to do with the failure to manage by the People's Party governments and also with that cut we suffered in Galicia in the last year of 440 million euros in the investments of the Ministry of Development. And, of course, then you're so calm to announce a follow-up commission for state investments, that we're also waiting to see the results in the near future, to see if we're getting a report on how those investments are going. Finally, we think that we need to focus on the debate on what is fundamental to this issue, which has to do with the rail model we want for our country and, of course, with the mobility model, with mobility for both people and commodities. Because we talk a lot about mobility in people's railways and we would have to talk more about merchandise, because it's an absolutely fundamental issue for our economic development and for our competitiveness as a country, the connection of ports, logistics platforms. And we have to talk about the high speed and its connection to the outside, connection to the Meseta and connection to Europe, and connection to Portugal too, the southern exit of Portugal, which is still stored in a drawer. We have to talk about the need to complete and modernize the internal railway network, these lines too, eternally postponed works of the Coruña-Ferrol, Ourense-Lugo-La Coruña or Ferrol-Ribadeo. And we've been talking here on many occasions about the dire state in which the line of the old AVE is on; we're worse at many of these lines than it was thirty or forty years ago. And, of course, it must be said that the surrounding railway service is absolutely fundamental, which is really the key piece to having a train that is an option of mobility, modern, economic, safe and cost-effective from a social, environmental and economic point of view. Finally, the BNG will support this initiative, although it seems to us that it sets absolutely unrealistic targets. It is in this sense a sort of letter to the magician kings to think that the works will be finished with projects still unsolicited...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u390	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u391	...in 2018. And what we're asking you to do is really stop reading, stop cheating, stop messing around and bet for real on the railroad, because we can't miss this train again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u392	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u393	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. It was really disappointing to come, see and listen to the highest responsible for the rural environment, the government official who today was worthy to appear here, come here and offer absolutely no solution to Galician citizenship. The Middle Rural Counselor came here to say he's doing all right. So the message that is being released to citizenship is that they are totally unprotected and that there is nothing to do to try to prevent such a situation from happening again. He made a comment that is truly alarming. The middle-rural manager said the mountain is either ordered or not. How little can we wait for the German Government if this statement is made!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u394	Mr. Cal, please call the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u395	Yes. We don't know what your advisors are, suppose you're still advising Rajoy's cousin, which said there was no climate change, because making this statement is a real aberration. [[Applause]] But we know perfectly well why he makes this statement. Because immediately after his intervention there were headlines in the press, in the propaganda campaign, the NODE acting, saying, "Galice burns because they set her on fire; just as the mountain is well-ordered." That was the message I wanted to launch the advisor, and it's already circulating all the way. The fault lies with the incendiaries and neighbors who don't clean up their land, and speak again about organized groups. These are the messages that are now circulating in the media. And this is what the Middle Rural Counsellor came here to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u396	Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u397	...he didn't come to talk about the real situation, he didn't offer solutions, he put headlines,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u398	Mr. Cal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u399	...which is the only thing that concerns you in this alarming situation for citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u400	Mr. Cal, I'm sorry, I call the matter a second time. You know that if I have to call him a third, he'll stop using the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u401	That's right. You're talking about demonstrations. We were in the demonstrations yesterday, of course; mass demonstrations of citizenship, which came out seeing some institutions that are not responding to demanding answers. It's a shame you're critical of the alarmed citizen coming out of the street. And it should be worrying for you if you really believe that we call them, as they're saying, and how they try to move...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u402	Mr. Cal, I call the question for the third time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u403	...to citizenship, it should be for you worrying that we are able to mobilize so many people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u404	...and, therefore, you withdraw the word as you know and prescribe the regulation. [[Mr. Cal Ogon pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u405	Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Fernández, you bring this Parliament an initiative almost a year ago, registered on November 11, 2016, which invalidates itself. It speaks of 2018 as the date of arrival of the AVE, and it has already been told by the spokesman of the BNG, when it is absolutely impermissible, and the minister has already given the 2019 dates. Something impossible about 2018 because of the political blockade suffered in 2016, of which you socialists have a lot of responsibility. When I saw that I was presenting a self-amendment, I thought, actually, naive of me, that I was going to fix these mistakes, but disappointment, I was just talking about changing the 2017 budget, which is already running, by the 2018 budget. But all the rest of the wrong dates because they didn't change, because it's not important to correct demagogy, but it's important to continue to confuse, lie, and continue to confuse society and generate a confusing speech. I would like to remind you that we had a debate about the state of Autonomy two weeks ago and that this Parliament also adopted a motion for a resolution that spoke clearly about realistic and possible dates, and it was adopted. It expressly stated that the Galician Union was urged to request from the Central Government the fulfilment that the AVE to Galicia is in operation in tests in 2019. In addition, he pointed out that if he continued to advance in his internal connections, that is, the AVE to Lugo, the AVE Ourense-Vigo direct, the variant of Ourense and the improvement of Ferrol connections. We literally approved it fifteen days ago. We were also talking about intermodals, because of course, we still need the impetus of central and autonomous governments, but we also hope that they will help the municipalities a little bit, which have important competences to be able to do these intermodals. Look, until now there has never been such a clear commitment by the Government of Spain to the momentum of the AVE to Galicia, because we now have a definitive date for the arrival of the AVE: in 2019, with quarterly follow-up of the commitments, and also what is most important: the commitment that will be double-tracked. Therefore, with the highest standards of quality, which ensures that it is perfectly homologable and comparable to others that I asked for. As I told you, quarterly we have the commitment of the Minister of Development to come to justify and account for the deadlines, and also of this entry of the AVE to Ourense that is spoken of in the second point. Both the works of adaptation of the station itself, recently published in public information, those of adaptation of the current avenue as a provisional solution, and those of the Ourense's own definitive variant follow the deadlines laid down, and the deadlines laid down in that committee are also followed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a clear difference between a government that gives its face and that comes to account for its commitments with other chameleons of socialist ministers, because those who were really chameleons and spit against the wind were the meanings of socialist ministers. I'm talking about Mr. Abel Ramón Caballero Álvarez, who was talking about the train ending in Valladolid, or the other minister, Mr. José Blanco López, who was saying, signing the Pact of the Oberdoiro, that in 2015, he would be finished, but he didn't put any budgets or execute. And that's right, the chameleon arrived soon in Madrid and forgot everything. [[Applause]] So, transition, — and I literally catch your words — privacy and shameful silences only and especially those of the socialists, and also amnesia, especially when they ruled Mr. Fernández, who seemed to have forgotten the times they were ruling. Honestly, I was expecting something more honesty from you. And a non-law proposition that is presented here by the bad conscience of socialist governments with AVE does not wash away the memory of the Greeks with the socialist non-compliances with Galicia. You know that you have a bad conscience, and that's why you want to confuse the dates, but there are very different ways to pose this to the Greeks. By the way, Mr Bará, the Galician community is the second in per capita investment of all communities and the fourth in investment of all Spanish communities. So we are not going to support this proposal, we have to reject it, because it is not supposed to recognize the commitment, the quality and the real pace of the execution of the works of the AVE; it does not recognize the commitment of the Board to the works of the intermodals and the reality of the investment and management that is being done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u406	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u407	...and suppose — I've already told — to lie to people, to lie to people asking for something they know before that's impossible. The demagogy of his poor conscience will not make the Greeks forget the Socialist Party's failure. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u408	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group which is the author of the non-legislative motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u409	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Prado, I knew I was going to say November 2011, logically. But we bring this initiative because a year later we continue in the situation of the year before 2016. We made a technical amendment and put "2017." And I've already given up the proposals Mr. Feijóo made on the dates of AVE in Galicia: 2012, 2015, 2018. Now they announce in tests at the end of 2019. You want to tell me you're going to announce next year, what's the next date? Because they must have more dates. You've got this thing going on. See: inaction of budgets, delays of adjudication, differences in unsolved modifications, definition of Taboadela-Ourense frame, modification of Ourense intermodal station to limit it. Too many delays and resignations, and too many uncertainties. The 17-kilometre Taboadela-Ourense project is not concrete; today there is absolutely nothing but words, words, words, and nothing else. And the adaptation of the current track as a high-speed entry to Ourense, and therefore Galicia, increases the confusion and security of the population that are again deceiving the orensans and the gales and the gales. [[Applause]] Because an interim solution, as you say it's a provisional solution... suddenly, of double seeing nothing, which you also said was going on double track; of equipping the current double-track line, nothing. Provisional for three or four years? We have already given you the date on previous initiatives: AVE 2022-2024 and without guarantees of double track. What happens is that he also drags with this indecision his institutions more prone to partisan submission than to the defense of citizenship. With regard to this, the mayor of Ourense said that he was satisfied because the minister had present the variant Taboadela-Ourense. Look, the Socialists of Ourense and the citizens don't want me to keep that in mind; we want you to do it at once, do it and finish it. I started my intervention by establishing a historical parallelism between the fire and the railway in Galicia, a historical parallelism with the figure of Mr. Núñez Feijóo as a coinciding protagonist in two very definite and concrete temporal moments: the year 2004, 2005 and 2006, and the year 2017, best, October 2017. The wave of fires these days has recovered the hemerothec and sentenced those in 2006 to spit upwards. The railway in Galicia, with the arrival of the high rail speed to Galicia — it also comes in the hemerotheque — is setting up its judgment only dilated by the continued extensions that the president of the Union self-imposed, both in the integrity of the board and in the operation of the line. I fear that the capital accumulated by Mr Feijóo in the form of unmet commitments will have a similar outcome to the sentence of the fire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u410	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u411	Only a high-speed railway line to Galicia can simply mitigate the final draw. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-17-DSPG044.u412	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. After the debate on this non-law proposal, the meeting is suspended until the following day. Thank you very much.
