ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia dated July 28, 2017, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. We went into the agenda with a single point, which is: Debate and vote on the non-financial expenditure limit of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2018, as referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u2	In view of the fact that the Council of Galicia, on 28 July 2017, agreed on the ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2018, which is fixed at EUR 9,487 million, which may be adjusted to vary the revenue of the financing system and the final funds incorporating the draft budget law of the General Government of the State, as well as to the reduction of national accounting adjustments where they do not affect the approved stability objective in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011, of 16 June, of budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, referred to this House for adoption in conjunction with the report of the Fiscal Financial Strategy referred to in Article 11.2 of that Act, a vote shall be taken. Before we proceed to this vote, the Government will have a fifteen minute round for its presentation, which will be followed by a round of parliamentary groups for a period of ten minutes. We therefore begin with the presentation by the Government, and for that we have the floor of the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today before Parliament to present the non-financial expenditure limit for 2018, approved last Friday by the Board of Governors in accordance with Article 12 of the Budget Discipline and Financial Sustainability Act. With this, it's been seven consecutive years that takes the Government of Greece, the first autonomous executive who approved it by law, presenting the ceiling for spending next year in the House. From the Executive we have made it easier for parliamentary groups to know, with almost three months ahead of what was usual until 2011, the general framework in which the accounts will be drawn up for next 2018. The Government of Greece is committed to maximum transparency in the preparation of its annual accounts, so Galicia has a differential fact, because in addition to approving the Executive's expenditure ceiling, it requests permission from Parliament. We're bringing this expenditure ceiling to the House at the best economic moment in the last nine years. At this point in Galicia, a model of healthy growth is being consolidated; the Welsh economy is growing in a sustainable way around 3%; it is creating employment at a rate of between 17,000 and 20,000 new jobs/year and we are beating its historical records monthly in exports, fulfilling and even improving our roadmap outlined in the Strategic Plan. This good economic development that has been consolidated for three years is being reinforced by all the indicators we have known in recent months. This is why the Galego Institute of Statistics has just carried out a strong review of the growth forecast for this year. So, let's hope that the Greek economy will grow this year also above 3%, namely 3.1%, seven tenths more than originally planned. This would be supported by an over-expected advance in most indicators, especially those related to the service sector. Service sector activity has been positive for more than two years. It is evolving above the average of autonomous communities, with accumulated increases to this day above 10%. The sales of commerce by the child continue to grow by reactivating consumption, the fruit of the economic improvement that reaches Galician families and households, and at this point we are the fourth best-behaving community in the next year. We also kept a good export pace, and foreign sales are rising this year over 10.7%. In 2016 we've reached historical records in this paragraph and we're on our way over them. The industry, which was key to economic recovery last year, continues to reactivate, and the entry of new applications into the Welsh industry grows above 8% in the next year. Moreover, the trust of employers continues to grow, bearing in mind the best economic situation and the recovery of the labour market, which we hope will continue in the coming months. In Galicia, then, we added three consecutive years with growths greater than 3%. Ladies and gentlemen, this evolution is very positive, because you will remember that two years ago we decided to bring together the best experts in Galicia, both sectoral representatives and civil society, to help us design the lines within our planning by 2020. We discussed what we should and what we could do and what targets we could mark. They told us that with planning it was possible to increase in a sustained manner an annual rate of 2.5%. Well, we've been growing over 3% for three years. They also told us that it was possible to create between 80,000 and 100,000 new jobs in that period, and we're going along the right way to achieve this volume of new jobs. With regard to the unemployment rate, we are also in a position to comply with the set in the Strategic Plan to reach around 10% of the unemployment rate by 2020, and this year 2017 we estimate that it will fall to 15.6%. Two years ago, as I said, we agreed on this ambitious strategic plan, which is our roadmap to combine the present and the future with criteria, and I reiterate, and I can say with satisfaction that we are fulfilling and even improving virtually all our objectives. By next year we will have a non-financial expenditure ceiling of 9,487 million euros, 490 more than the initial budget of this year 2017 and 261 more than the accounts updated a few weeks ago, as a result of the incorporation of the largest resources confirmed by the central government. Therefore, in 2018 the Greek Government will have a spending capacity of 5,4 % higher than it had at the beginning of this year and 2,9 % higher than we currently have. In addition, this increased real spending capacity will grow even more, bearing in mind that in 2018 we will again reduce the financial expenditure chapter mainly by the responsible management of this Government in debt matters, with the autonomy that has less increased since 2009, and also by proper restructuring of it. As for non-financial revenues, those approaching the financing system account for 80% of the total. The consolidation of the improvement of macroeconomic variables reflects an increase of 4,6 % of the accounts of the estimated financing system for 2018, which means additional EUR 304 million for this year. The settlement to be included in 2018, as you know, corresponding to the system payments in 2016, is increased by 75 million euros over the collection in 2017. This recovery, more positive than expected, is due to the subsequent good fiscal performance of the 2016 fiscal year, which has allowed it to adjust actual revenues to state budget forecasts. The evolution of the state tax collection in 2016 is equal to that of 2015 as a result of the tax reform, which highlights the expansion of the bases of the aforementioned reform, which allows the absorption of the reductions in the state quota of IRPF. In IVE, behavior is growing at 4,2 % over 2015, which in turn has been a good year. Special taxes also show good behavior, increasing 3.8%, rates not seen since the beginning of the crisis and above the growth of the general economy. The corresponding annual liquidation must be added to the adjustment resulting from the postponement of the negative settlement returns of the years 2008 and 2009, i.e., we have to remain EUR 85 million. Therefore, the total winding-up balance is going to increase revenue to the financing system in 2018 by EUR 442.5 million, exceeding the good data of 2017, which was 367.6 million. As far as finalist transfers from other administrations, basically from the General Administration of the State and the European Funds, are slightly increasing their participation in five tenths of non-financial income, up to 10.7% of them. The final incomes of the State Administration show a flat evolution, reflecting the different rate of fiscal consolidation, especially demanding for the State in 2017 and 2018. The Interterritorial Compensation Fund is estimated in line with the change in gross capital formation provided for in the update of the stability programme of the Spanish Kingdom for 2017-2020, and is expected to increase by 2.5 per cent, i.e. about one million euros. With regard to the Community Strategic Framework 2014-2020, which involved the development of regional operational programmes for the ERDF, ESF, EAFRD, FEMP and the European Youth Employment Initiative, managed by the Autonomous Community, to which the funds devoted to cooperation are added, in particular the POCEP, which is currently in full phase of project launch. The financial years taken into account for the next financial year are those of an average financial year of the operational programmes. Once we push the launch of their execution, the latest resources of the Youth Employment Initiative are planned, whose development will end in 2018, and from there it will become covered by the European Social Fund. Following the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, the Feaga Funds will not be collected in future budgets, in which the Galician Board performs a mere intermediary of payments. With regard to the non-financial own resources of the Autonomous Community, that is, our own taxes, prices, taxes and capital income, represent 9.3% of the non-financial budget revenue. Its stable evolution depends to a large extent on the evolution of the tax yielded, especially on the tax on documented successions and legal acts, as well as on heritage transmissions. We appreciate that the continued recovery of the housing market, especially the housing used, as soon as it stabilizes since the end of 2014 begins a phase of moderate but continuous growth. The planned collection of successions still reflects the effects of the 2016 tax download, whereby 99% of direct heirs no longer pay for it. As far as property tax is concerned, it is important to highlight the consolidation of its collection as a result of the effects resulting from the incorporation of the new bases of goods located abroad. In total, non-financial revenues for next year will amount to €9,277 million, to which 190 million will have to be added, as a result of 0.3 % deficit, and add 20 more by national accounting adjustments. With this, the non-financial expenditure ceiling for 2018 will be set at EUR 9,487 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been four years since the presentation to the House of the expenditure ceiling takes place at a more favourable economic time than the previous one. The objective reality that we're growing at a rate of 3% and increasingly reducing unemployment levels does not make us forget that there is still much to be done to make most of the vast majority of the Greeks and Greeks benefit from this increasingly consolidated economic recovery. We'll redouble our efforts to reach those who are still going through difficulties and who have more needs. As for the 2018 forecasts, the macroeconomic scenario from demand point of view shows balanced growth, based on sustained growth in domestic demand and positive rise in external demand. From the point of view of the offer, the industry is expected to behave better in 2018, while services will maintain their dynamism over the last few years, while construction will continue to recover. By next year we have also improved the scenario envisaged in the Strategic Plan and the GNP will increase by 2.7 per cent, while the unemployment rate has dropped by more than one and a half points, to 14 per cent. With this evolution, the average increase in GDP in the period 2016-2018 will be at 3%, a half-point higher than expected in the Strategic Plan of Galicia. We want to make compliance with the Strategic Plan compatible with fiscal consolidation, so we develop this expenditure ceiling with a deficit target of 0.3 % of GDP, compared to 0.4 % of GDP, and the reason is double. On the one hand, speed up fiscal consolidation and gradually reduce the public deficit from 0.5 % to 0,3 % and 0,1 % in 2019. And on the other hand, to minimize our use of indebtedness. We want to stop issuing new debt as soon as possible, and in 2018 it will be for a volume much lower than in previous years, when we've already controlled it. Not in van Galicia is the community that has increased its debt since 2009, specifically 3,600 million euros less than the average. In fact, at the end of this year, and especially next 2018, we will significantly reduce the debt ratio/GDP, which is now five points below the average of autonomous communities. In addition, we will continue to invest as much as possible and pay our suppliers more and more quickly. Galicia is the second autonomous community with greater per capita investor effort in the last five years, almost twice as much as the average, and we are already fulfilling the ambitious goal of having an average payment period under the ten days. We pay less than half the time. We are, therefore, consolidating a model of growth in Galicia, a healthy growth, supported by the control of deficit and public indebtedness, productive investment and the agile payment of our commitments. We have a healthy growth because we grow better...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u5	...and we grow better because we are improving the productivity of our economy, we are maintaining our financial autonomy, we are respecting the rules of play and fulfilling our commitments, we are favoring the liquidity of our suppliers with fast payments, we are growing without dependence on the real estate market and prioritising structural growth and we are beating the historical record of exports, achieving practically fiscal consolidation and minimizing our dependence on debt to increasingly allocate resources to productive investment. This is, in short, healthy growth, and we have a unique political and institutional stability in Spain that we want to take advantage of to strengthen this legislation and this healthy growth, which is based on planning, productivity, prudence and rigour. Why sink in these roads, gentlemen? Because stability gives certainty and allows us to ensure that Galicia will have a year more budget; because we have a clear strategy where we will already achieve a sharp growth for four years and we expect that throughout this legislation will continue to grow in a sustained manner...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u6	It doesn't sound right. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u7	...financialists who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u8	Quiet, it just seems that you don't listen well. Excuse me a moment, Counselor, it doesn't sound right. And now it's over, see if the House services fix that microphone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u9	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u10	Now go, now go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u11	We have planned, as I said, that over the course of this legislation, non-financial revenues will continue to increase sustainably, which will allow stable increases in spending capacity at an average rate of 2.8%. The scenario we are dealing with is that at the end of this legislation, by 2020, we can already have a spending capacity of around 10 billion euros, and without recourse to debt. So the targets and the road map are marked and I think we're all working together to keep doing them. The challenge of this non-financial expenditure ceiling for what we are asking for today's Parliament's authorization is that Galicia continues to grow at a good rate and to create more and better jobs. From the German Government we guarantee every effort to extend the economic recovery for one more year and add more and more Welsh and Greek to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u12	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating an extraordinary plenary session where it is actually a bit disappointing that we can only debate on the expenditure ceiling. I have to say that I regret that Feijóo hides himself and does not want to look at two important issues in this Parliament, such as the situation of public transport, which we are already seeing as large companies benefit from this model, or the transfer of AP-9. I have to admit today that I have more clear why Feijóo is hiding, because it's really hard to face after yesterday's paper with Iñigo de la Serna. You did, Mr. Feijóo, you're a disgusting spectacle that unfortunately has a title, and it's treason to Galicia. [[Applause]] It's really disgusting that you just put yourself in the atrium on the Iñigo side of the Serna to applaud your party's going to transfer the AP-9. And this is because you've been breaking Galician militant's office for a long time, and I think you've only pulled him out in the election campaign, and he's not president of Galicia, he's Rajoy's delegate in Monte Pio and he's unable, not once, to defend the interests of this country. [[Applause]] He's not doing it or defending more spending ceilings or facing a cut of 442 million euros. It does not defend Galicia or even defend what we unanimously approve in this Parliament, which is the transfer of AP-9. And much less you are so capable of defending a financing model that is fair to our country. You, Mr. Feijóo, have resigned from Galician militant. In that sense, the last excuse they made us is already worth it. Now the problem of transfer is no longer the public accounts, now the problem of transfer is Catalonia. I ask you, Mr. Feijó, if you didn't know what the debate was in Catalonia in March. Didn't he know or is he continually fooling everyone at all times? The question we have to ask ourselves is why Basques and Catalans have been managing the highway for decades and not Galicia. The question your advisor would be right to put on some tax policy board is why there are 3,500 million euros to rescue Madrid's radials and yet there are zero euros to rescue the Greeks and the Greeks from the AP-9 fares; some fees that, of course, you've already announced you want to go up. I want to tell you today — since the president hides and doesn't look like him — that in the BNG we are not going to remove the towel, that we are going to ask again for Feijóo's appearance because we believe it is important to explain to us why the president of the Galician Union renounces the transfer of AP-9, why it breaks the unity of the Greek political forces and why it disallows the agreements we make in this Parliament. Of course, we believe that the President of the Union is not up to the circumstances or the height of this country. We are better than you, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] As you are not aware of the circumstances of this proposed spending ceiling which today will unilaterally approve the People's Party; a proposal that already comes from a cataract of anti-democratic decisions, centralists, that undermine this self-government escalation and that are absolutely counterproductive to shield public services and be able to pull out for all those people who continue to be installed in the economic crisis. We say that this spending ceiling and all this legal armament that has been articulating the People's Party is antidemocratic and centralist because this spending ceiling, in the end, is the son of a breakdown of the deficit that is actually imposing upon us the Central Government, which unilaterally imposes its criterion, makes an unfair distribution of the spending capacity, and behind this model what we want is to continue cutting public services and limiting the public investment capacity, which had to be a fundamental engine to reactivate the economy and, above all, to build that country in which no one is left behind. Since the Block we don't agree with a model that is a centralist nonsense, which is forcing cuts in basic services such as health, education or social services, and so we believe that this is not a model that deserves our support. But the state gave over 60 billion euros to the bank. For Galicia, a spending ceiling was imposed, but the state increased its military spending by more than 7.500 million euros. For Galicia there is a spending ceiling, but the state has EUR 3,500 million to rescue Madrid's radials. I mean, I'm spending it, but it depends, because Mr. Rajoy leaves and keeps some privileges that allow him to have wide sleeves when he's interested. And it's funny, Mr. Rajoy's interests never coincide in defending Galician, social rights, better quality of life and well-being for citizens. Today, Counselor, you came here to repeat to us a little bit all that we already knew in the note that made public last week. They came here, somehow, bragging about some data that they know they're made up in a part. You publicly say there's an increase in the expenditure ceiling of 490 million euros, but this is a trap, because you've made a budget change. By the way, it was made that coincidence, the budgetary modification was processed as a single reading in one day. We don't know whether to call the Constitutional, because now the People's Party says that single reading procedures break Spain. Anyway. [[Applause]] You're telling us there's an increase of 5.4%, but actually the increase in the actual expenditure ceiling is 2.3%, and it's an increase that is below the expected economic growth. We are therefore faced with a continuing budgetary framework that will make it impossible to reverse the cuts and deterioration of public services that are fundamental to carrying out a stimulus of our economy. You told us now that we already know what the framework the Government is working on to develop budgets, and what they're telling us is that they won't actually reverse cuts into basic public services, that there are no resources to really boost innovation, that they won't provide more resources to put in place new measures to fight poverty and inequality, to really reactivate the economy, because with that margin of 219 million the truth is that their budgets will necessarily continue. But there's, in any case, another aspect that I want to highlight today, and it's a matter that we think is important. Despite the fact that in recent years — you had pointed it out in your intervention — there is an increase in the expenditure ceiling, budget spending forecasts have not exceeded the pre-crisis levels, and this is what you are pointing out to us is the limitations and insufficiency of the current self-financing model and the need to overcome it, and on this subject you are also completely misings, missing. I see you happy as partridges with a spending ceiling that only increases by 219 million euros, when with a model of economic concert as proposed by the BNG we could have in Galicia more than 3,500 million euros so that we didn't have to close schools, to hire more teachers, to improve health and to put in place a plan back so that the people who left might have a chance; finally, to actually activate our economy and put the resources that the Greeks and the Greeks pay for the country's service, and not others that nothing has to do with us. But if we had already made it clear that the best alternative for Galicia is to be able to have a Greek farm that allows us to define our taxes, collect them and see what is the best way to use them for the benefit of the people of our country, I recognize them that after reading the expert committee report I have a lot more clear than ever. That document — which I imagine to support the Galician Union — is far from moving forward in fiscal and financial capacity, which opens the door to us is even that Galician in that frame may have less income, if that was the final result. It's a real nonsense that supports a reform of the system in which the Central State will not provide any more resources and where the proposals that you want to make to the Greeks and to the Greeks are to raise the VAT or that there will be more compensation in public services. That's not the way or those for nothing are the proposals we're going to defend from the BNG. In short, neither for reasons of form nor for reasons of substance can we agree with this proposal, which is not in line with what our country needs or our needs in terms of public investment, of strengthening public services, of reactivating our economy. Actually, this spending ceiling is a corset that prevents us from using all the resources that could actually have access to the Administration to actually bet that no one is left behind to modernize the country and actually put in place a real economic recovery that reaches all over the world. You seem obvious that there is a very important consensus that the reduction in public investment has lengthened the crisis and caused an increase in inequalities and a impoverishment of important social layers. They've eluded any question that has to do with it. And really his model is that of an economy with feet of clay and that of a position where Galicia doesn't converge. The structural problems you've been traversing our economy can't find solutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u15	...in the government's economic policies. I'm going to finish. You've made a reduction in the unemployment rate of 15.6% this year, Counsellor. It was exactly the same figure that we could hear in this Parliament in the spending debate last year. What does that mean? There's a bad job behavior in our country. And you know, in addition, much of the unemployment reduction doesn't have to do with more people working, but it reduces the active population and we have a serious problem with emigration. You recognize this in the report you bring to this Parliament, which tells us that a significant part of the reduction in unemployment will be due to the reduction in the active population, not because there is more employment. We, ladies and gentlemen, are going to vote not on this expenditure ceiling because the expenditure ceiling is an instrument to limit the real capacity for government action and neoliberal and centralist ideology and because it is a expenditure ceiling that does not suit Galicia, which today could have more resources to improve its health and education. But you're more papist than the Pope and you're stubbornly cutting down services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u17	...and cutting the government's ability to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u19	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this plenary we have started the 2018 budget cycle, which will end in a few months. It is about combining the application of the principle of budgetary stability — which we agree with, although it seems to us that there are some specific aspects, which I will explain later, in which one can make another interpretation or improve its concrete application — with an estimate of income that depends in part on decisions taken by the central government and which also adopts the autonomous administration, and combined with the economic situation, because it gives us the basis on which taxes apply. We agree with the principle of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. We are not concerned; on the contrary, we believe that it is good for our economy, that it is good for our society that this stability exists, because this principle, in the end, means that if we want a state of Nordic well-being — that is part of Nordic managers, which, of course, we do not have — we also need taxation like those countries, and that if we want something else we need a different taxation. You're betting on a Mediterranean taxation that we don't agree with. We would like a tax which has been progressively approaching other European countries and which would allow a different policy. But what you mean is you have to balance income and expenses, and that seems to us a right principle, with the salvations that I'll do later. The problem is that the inertia of its political-economic management leads to a progressive reduction in the public autonomous expenditure on gross domestic product, which does not seem to go in the direction that we propose. So here's a first element of discrepancy. In the income estimate, that's where the main problems are. In my opinion, there is a lack of ambition and a lack of conformity. We would really need a tax reform in Spain, with consequences in Galicia, which would expand the tax bases, which would balance the treatment of income from work and capital, which would facilitate compliance with tax obligations, to reduce fraud. That fiscal reform would be the one that would bring us more income for all the administrations — also for the autonomous administration — and allow us to put in place different policies. But even without this fiscal reform, it would be necessary to do something more in the current framework to promote the spending policies we need, support for families and reduce child poverty, support for dependents, to have the day-to-day centres, to have the affordable residences that today have no right, to support public health or to strengthen training in human capital, in research and development elements that will promote our competitiveness. For these policies that are underdeveloped or are not developed by the Galician Union, we need some additional resources. The course does not convince us, its only project remains that of adjustment, going beyond what is foreseen in our European commitments and in our commitments with other autonomous communities and with the central state; a conservative adjustment. And they make a reading, to our understanding, little ambitious, conservative, ideologically, of the economic situation. That is why I have already told you that we are not going to support this expenditure ceiling and that we are going to vote against it because it seems insufficient. But allow me also some more concrete observations. You speak of healthy growth and refer to the macroeconomic framework accompanying this report. But there is a first problem, which is the insufficiency of job creation. The increase of 2.7% means a certain slowdown over the last few years; it is high in terms compared to other European countries. I'm not going to criticize that, but I'm critical that your translation in terms of employment is anemic. We are talking about 17,000 jobs — a little below 20,000 — and this leads us to a path of job creation below the Spanish average, as it has been since 2009. We're reducing our physical base of busy people and this endangers our ability to generate wealth in the coming days. Yes, unemployment is reduced, but, as has already been said, basically due to weakness in the active population, which becomes the main argument for adjusting unemployment figures. So first of all, the lack of job creation, and we're not talking about its quality anymore. The second problem has to do with the growth profile. In the macroeconomic framework there is clearly an export bet — that's right —. Export would grow by 5.7%, above all, even from the nominal growth of our economy — right, it seems to us that this export path needs to be developed — but domestically there is an excessive dependence on the behaviour of gross capital formation, just as it happened last year, which we all know is the most volatile variable and most influenced by psychosocial factors, which derives from the expectations basically from entrepreneurs. Both are linked: there is investment in gross capital formation because there are good export prospects. But what's the other side? The other side is that private consumption of families and public consumption, on the other hand, are much more adjusted and they have a behavior that is substantially below these two other headings. And we would like that instead of flying with a single engine, which is the engine of exports, we'll fly with both engines, especially because at a time of turbulence it's good to have too much response capacity. Flying with two engines means affirming more job creation, raising wages in line with productivity, which is a growing demand of our society and which means transferring economic growth to family incomes, to their consumption capacity, to their standard of living, and therefore being in a position to make growth more stable. Growth is socially unbalanced, and we want it to be rebalanced. The increase in the profits of IBEX companies in the whole of Spain this year is 22.8%, and we are talking about 1% wage growth. That's the social imbalance, and that's what we need to remedy, and the macroeconomic picture that we're presented with affects this path. By the way, exports grow by 5.7%, but, look! our main export markets — leaving aside the rest of the Spanish economy, that is, France, Portugal, the United Kingdom — are all growing below 2%. So we have a very important challenge because in markets that grow below 2% or we gain market share or we open markets in other places with higher growth rates — India, China, etc. — or, if not, we will have a problem. And I put it only as a concern for the future. And, in addition, this model weakens Galician Union. Why weaken Galician Union? Basically because our income — IRF and IVE — depends much more on domestic demand. And as this expands little our general tax base is growing also below what it should. Therefore, growth based on two engines instead of one. Finally, specific questions on the report: the expenditure rule is excessively conservative and should be reviewed. With nominal expansion close to 5% the computing public expenditure is about half the growth, and this is due to an excessive weight of what happened in the previous five years. The Montoro Minister has committed himself to the municipalities and autonomous communities to make a revision of the method of calculating the cost rule in the first half of this year, but he has not done so, and in this way he is stressing the conservative negation of this economic policy. And in the production gap, where the output gap is called, something like this happens. It is my attention that in a context where we have 15% unemployment, where we have not yet managed to recover the pre-crisis GDP levels and where we have inflation below 2% it appears that our real GDP is above the medium-term potential of the Greek economy. I'm not going to criticise the calculation method, which I'm saying is that it probably misappropriates to an exceptional situation like the one we've been living in these years, and that's accentuated by the conservative business because it obliges a zero deficit policy or in any case of small public surplus, which seems to me to be a dislate in these circumstances. Moreover, you — and I will now finish, Mr President — do not discuss the distribution of deficits between administrations. A deficit for Spain of 2.2%, for central administration, the -1.8%, and for the whole of autonomous communities and municipalities, -0.4%. With the distribution of public expenditure in Spain, this means focusing excessively on the use of the deficit in that administration which, on the other hand, accounts for less than half of the overall public expenditure in the Spanish economy, and has, on the other hand, more than 80% of the deficit allocated. We must fight this, we must ensure that autonomous communities, which respond to basic services — health, education and social services — also have access to this resource in conditions comparable to those of the Central Administration. And finally, with regard to the expected tax revenue, we will have an opportunity to discuss the financing model — I will not go into this — the present and the future, among other things, because it does not depend on your decisions. It is the application of the 2009 model that gives us those revenues, and when we review it, we will discuss it — I suppose in September. But if a minimum reference to your own tax revenue, which you did too. They're stabilized, from 859 million we went to 866; practically stable. In a context where there is a rise in nominal GDP in Galicia around 5%, we stabilize our own incomes, which substantially reduce their weight in the total non-financial income of the autonomous community. I think that's not good, especially when the real estate market, as you said, is recovering. A recovery from the real estate market, a rise in the economy of 5%, and yet stability of our own income.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u21	I think we have a problem here. I'm done, Mr. President. We're going to oppose the spending ceiling, and we're going to oppose it because you meet one of the two conditions that the European Union poses: budgetary stability. All right, but the European Union — and I can read it here literally — also calls on the Spanish public administrations to take steps to promote indefinite recruitment, to improve support for families, to face autonomous disparities in a system of minimum incomes, or to ensure an adequate and sustained level of investment in research and innovation. They do the first part, but they don't do the second part. They are only half Europeans; we want to be complete Europeans, incomes and expenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u22	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u23	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start this way with the debate on the expenditure ceiling on the 2018 budgets, and the first question you might ask yourself is, what is a budget worth? An budget, in democracy, in a social democracy like ours, should be used to ensure the functioning of institutions, to guarantee civil liberties, to ensure basic social rights and fundamental rights; ultimately, to guarantee material freedom and equal opportunities and, of course, to boost the economy and to create jobs. It should ultimately be a debate on social welfare. On the contrary, what do we have? Today we have a minute, sad and mediocre debate on how to make budgets. And why is that? Not for economic reasons, but for reasons of ideology, something that has long advanced the FAES foundation when it said that the redistribution of wealth is not made from a progressive fiscal policy, but from a more efficient management of expenditure; something like a good policy of austerity and budgetary restraint is the best way to achieve the least inequality and social well-being. You have to be careful about the foundations, because the foundations bear the devil, and you can end up going through us like the Adolf Hitler Foundation managing the Meirás palace, something that I suppose nobody will please, even if it's legal... i mean Francisco Franco, forgive us, which is much more democratic and much more elegant than Adolf Hitler. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Much more elegant! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Within the need to balance public accounts, there are different alternatives. The spending ceiling rule is not unique, there are alternatives and there are alternatives that allow us not to ignore suffering beyond it. You can see that ignoring suffering goes a long way. Of course, because, if it hadn't been so, yet without repairing the historical memory and yet unearthing all the dead of the hives and giving them a dignified burial, keeping the Francisco Franco Foundation managing a polished heritage to the people of Sada and to the whole of the Greek people would be inadmissible and shamed anyone in this House too, and here the only thing you see are overwhelmed by denouncing it. [[Murmurs.]] The roof of expenditure is part of the architecture of austerity, so to speak. Even though we're at the high stage of the cycle, the budgets of the Union are still in the architecture of austerity; the budgets are going to grow below what the economy is growing, and so acknowledged by the advisor himself in his intervention. Austerity means, in that terms, the shame of the public, of public intervention in the economy and in life to guarantee rights. It's insolidity and it's denying that the whole of society can intervene to help others, it can intervene so that no one stays behind, it can intervene to guarantee basic rights to all citizenship. That means if we have to choose between paying meds or paying Merkel, we choose Merkel instead of drugs, because we care more about the economy than people, and that can't be. [[Applause]] The austerity is to put money on top of people, and we want an economy at the service of people, so we refuse the spending ceiling. The architecture of austerity imposed by the Troica — an anti-Soberan agreement, which has not undergone democratic functioning — conditions the functioning of institutions which are democratic, like this Parliament. And article 135 is its most deformed genius, submits the realization of the rights of citizenship to the payment of a debt of which citizenship is not responsible; that is, they pay justly for sinners, in social terms. It's not economic, it's ideology.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u24	Quiet, please. Silence! There's a lot of noise in the room. Let's see if we can be quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u25	The goal of the spending ceiling is to reduce public spending to prevent the state from intervening, improving people's lives. And what were the consequences? They're in sight. Despite being in an elevated stage of the cycle, despite the growth of GDP, the data are stubborn and continues to be in Galicia at present more than 200,000 people without work, 35,000 more than when Mr. Feijóo arrived at the Government, and this despite having 68,000 less people of working age. There are 86,000 more people who have been unemployed for over two years, compared to the 22,000 that were in 2009. The number of homes with all their members in unemployment has increased by 53% since you rule, and the number of people without any income, salary or pension has increased by 100 percent. The European Commission has reported that in 2016, with regard to 2015, more people at risk of poverty in our country, that the Gini index of inequality continues to increase, and also literally says that young people are postponing important decisions with very negative impacts on their own personal lives and social cohesion to the prospects of growth and the support of social systems. What are you saying, finally? That you are creating the conditions for people to continue emigranting and for people not to see hope in their own country, and that can't be. It's not fair to make some budgets on that key. It is that the Spanish economy, and the Greek economy, grows despite austerity; not by its politics, it grows despite the politics of the PP. And it doesn't say in Marea, says the Banco de España... yes, ma'am, they grow despite you, and the Banco de España, says that 70% of the increase in GDP is due to the ECB's expansionary monetary policy, the euro-dollar exchange rate, the price of oil and a relaxation of fiscal policy. These are the causes of 70% of the increase in GDP. And why? Because the German Government has no economic policy, and that economic policy, of course, does not affect the growth of GDP or the growth of its social conditions. The result of all of this is that the wealth generated is wrongly distributed. And why is it wrongly distributed and even more so with the cost ceiling rule? Because lack of resources prevents rights from being met. There are no resources because a redistribution policy is abandoned through a tax system and fair budgets. He refuses to take over and seek wealth wherever he exists, the wealth that a few accumulate, to distribute it to all the world. The economy produces wealth, indeed, but it's not equally distributed between businessmen and workers. The profit rate of large companies and financial groups is being shot, while wages have not grown in real terms for almost twenty-five years. The result: the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. It's official data. Since the beginning of the crisis, there has been an increase in hypermillionaires in our own state, 457%, while the rate of inequality continues to grow. That is why we oppose this expenditure ceiling system, and therefore this concrete expenditure ceiling proposal. We come here announcing that the Greek economy will grow by 3.1 % in 2018 and, however, the spending ceiling increases by 2.8%, by the way, after recognizing the incompetence of the Greek Government itself during last year's budgets when calculating what was really the amount of those budgets. At Marea you warned them and you didn't listen, they were incompetent in establishing a true income estimate, and we had to correct them. Later, Soraya Sáenz of Santamaria came to say that In Marea was right and therefore you had nearly 230 million euros more. Well, take note of what we're going to tell you now, too, so that they can develop the 2018 budget well. We reject this amount of expenditure ceiling in particular for three reasons: firstly, because if the economy grows by 3.1% and the expenditure ceiling by 2.8%, we are acknowledging some budgets that are not even accompanied by the economic cycle, because you do not trust... what happens, do you not trust that the economic forecasts are true? [[Murmurs.]] Are they saying they handle other data less than 3.1 % and that's why they're at 2.8%? They'll have a chance to explain it, surely. Or do you think that the best economic policy is that there are no budgets for redistribution of income-richness and for fulfilling the rights of citizenship? Do you understand that, and that's why they make those predictions? [[Murmurs.]] But there is also another essential issue, that this data does not collect the price increase, and the price increase, plus GDP, that is, the nominal GDP increase by 2018, will be 5.6%. Why don't they go up the expense ceiling to 5.6% and do it? Why don't they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u26	Quiet, please. Quiet, if you don't... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u27	With that money we would have enough resources to meet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u29	See if they don't care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u30	A little bit of respect to who is in the use of the word. A little respect, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u31	See if they're not interested...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u32	A little respect, please. Let's take this a little more seriously. A little bit about who's in the use of the word, eh! because, if not, I'm going to have to... and it wouldn't proceed in a plenary which isn't expected too long. [[Murmurs.]] Please, with regard to those who are speaking, all Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u33	Did you know that with this differential that doesn't include in the expense ceiling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u34	Let's stop now, eh! If not, we'll suspend this momentarily. There's no problem with that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u35	Well, it seems to be disturbing the dissenting opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u36	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u37	It seems to be disturbing the formation of a state of political and social opinion alternative to its unique truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u38	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u39	Well, did you know that by applying this system, you would allow us all and everyone to attend to all dependents with a proper development of the Dependency Act and turn Risga into a real basic income of citizen insertion? And we give it up just because you don't want to make budgets that meet fundamental rights? Secondly, we reject this because it does not take into account the new model of self-financing. You've spoken to them about the new financing model and it has no impact of any kind in setting these budgets, when it seems that the new financing model should shift towards a larger source of resources. Or isn't it? Do you have any hidden data on the new financing model that leads to a minority of income, to a minority of resources from the autonomous community? If so, go up and tell him. But even the facts discredit them, because by the time of this year, the Secretary General for Autonomic Financing has just indicated that for the whole of autonomous communities in 2018, at least, there will be EUR 4 billion more. Something's gonna touch Galicia, right? And where is that something reflected in this expenditure ceiling? Once again, they're going to be wrong again, and they're going to have to see how in Marea they're strictly counting on them, in view of their lack of rigor, committed to not meeting fundamental rights. There is no greater resource capacity for autonomous communities in this financing model that you propose. It's like it's a failed model in advance. You're putting the sale before you get hurt. So look, with all those resources that you stop budgeting, we could keep open the nine unit schools that you closed, the four educational centers that you closed a month ago, the free textbooks and a dining room affordable to all the pockets and to all the people who are in the educational system. Finally, we reject this system because it maintains one of the less efficient and effective tax systems of the European Union. Tax efficiency is weakened by reducing taxes to capital and to higher incomes. With this, what do we produce? And besides, you're still pretending to be saving taxes. For what, then let us all pay by way of debt, what should they pay a few, those who manifest greater capacity and greater wealth? Well, we don't want that. We want those who have the most to pay, to distribute and make social solidarity with the whole of society, and thus ensure that everyone has the minimum necessary to live with dignity. With those money that you say you're saving but saving them the highest incomes, but saving them mostly to big companies, we could make R & D policies that generate jobs, allow the immigrant youth to come back and create jobs of high quality and high added value here. But you're the emigrants who don't care, do they? Look, finally, we also reject this model because it is incardinated in a model where tax havens are still the back door of their great flag patriotism, because a lot of Spain's pulse, but then taxation in tax havens, right? And that's where's the German Government? Where's the Spanish Government? Where are the institutions defending that situation? Nowhere, because it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u41	I'm going to end up with the alternative I propose In Marea to the expense ceiling. We believe it is possible to ensure the balance of public accounts, and not by means of a spending ceiling rule, but by means of the income ground rule, by means of sufficient resources. Any house — including the budget house — does not start on the roof, starts on the base. And what's the budget base? The budgetary basis is to know how many resources we need to ensure the access of all the population to basic goods such as housing, education, health, social benefits, pensions, culture, the environment, overcoming gender inequality and the rest of social inequalities. That is the basis, in addition to the fact that the budget must, of course, serve to create a quality job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u43	...and I will end up—and so that youth do not live impoverished and under working conditions that will enable them to face the future with certainty and allow them to plan their lives as they wish for that very institution of the European Union of which you so cherish. And how did this happen? —and finished — By means of the principle of fiscal adequacy. What is fiscal suficiency? It is a principle that ensures the well-being of citizenship and that all public institutions should be guided. It's a way of quantifying the cost of satisfying fundamental rights and minimum social rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u45	...to establish, from them, a tax system that ensures the provision of resources to meet those rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u47	I mean, first know what needs we have, then predict how to raise them and, from then on, draw up an budget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u48	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u49	And in view of this, what economic policy do we have? We have a dwindling budget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u50	Your time is up. Mr. Villares, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u51	You've got some time there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u52	Your time is up. No, look at the clock, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u53	Well, finally, I'll finish my shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u55	Well, we refuse budgets that are hyper-individual...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u57	...that they do not believe in social solidarity, that they do not look for the common good...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u58	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u59	...that they don't look at people's rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u61	We think it's possible another alternative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u63	Your time is up, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u64	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u65	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u66	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose the spokesperson for En Marea spoke for him when he spoke about this debate being sad. Because we have been relatively pleased and pleased with this debate, because, at the outset, this debate is being held gives news of three good things. The first is that we are an advanced community in transparency. There are autonomous communities that don't debate the expenditure ceiling, we were the first to do so. Others come behind, of all colors, such as Castile-Leon or Balearic or Castile-La Mancha. Others, too, of all colors, do not take him to parliament for his vote. And there are even others who haven't even approved it in their government councils. This is the second reason why we believe it is a source of satisfaction to be debating here today, because the Government, which Thursday received the news of how much deliveries would be on account, brought the House on Friday the ceiling of expenditure and we are debating and approving today, Tuesday, the ceiling of expenditure. So we're also in front of a government that works normally and efficiently. What I remember is that, in order to make the budgets and the ceiling of expenditure, you have to know what the deliveries to account are. Because what the Government communicates — which is 80% of the Joint Income — some seem to have forgotten what it is that allows us to spend more or less, not the other way around. Obviously, the fact that these deliveries to the account are true and are reported avoids any mention of possible reforms of the tax system — as proposed here — to improve income next year, or even of the autonomous financing system, which, in addition to having a status quo clause, is about to see whether it enters into force and applies in 2018, which I personally doubt very much. Finally, we are happy and not sad because this debate shows that Galicia has something that does not have other autonomous communities, which is the stability that gives it a broad, solid majority; of course, by the will of the Greek people. And, of course, that broad and solid majority that allows us to comply with the rules, to meet the deadlines. And, finally, we are debating something that in most of the state — with the exception of the General Courts and two or three more autonomous communities — only if we are discussing it. [[Applause]] Secondly, this satisfaction also has to do with the fact that the growth of the expenditure ceiling has to do with things that are reasonably well at economic growth. This referred to the advisor, but I want to remember that real GDP is going to grow in 2017 to 3.1. Now there are indicators that are talking about 3.6 at an annual rate. Yesterday the IREF published data on the growth of the state, 3.1, and Galicia, 3.1-0.9 in the last quarter. Obviously, without growth there is no employment or ability to deliver social policies. And of course, the Banco de España says that we have to continue this way because there are some glued winds that can fall. But the fact is that it also says the Banco de España, Mr Villares, that more reforms must be made, particularly in the field of work. We believe that GDP is growing fairly. Exports actually grow to 5.4. But the second growing figure is gross capital formation, which is good news. It grows, according to memory, 4.3; i.e. the same as the nominal growth figure of the economy itself. Which makes us see that, along with the spending of public administrations — more content — and the spending of families, growth is much more balanced, of course, than when it was based primarily on real estate expansion. And the job is also reasonably good. Mrs. Pontón hardly talked about the expenditure ceiling, because, when we had the debate for this year's spending ceiling, she said, among other things, that with the expenditure ceiling of 2017 we weren't going to create a single net job. Well, it turns out we've got 19,067 full-time net jobs. And I understand it's more comfortable to talk about other issues, about which I'll be back now. [[Applause]] Salaries — it is true that we have to talk about the whole cycle. Here you always forget what happened with the wages at the high stage of the cycle. But, leaving this alone, we have the data that just published the INE that average wages grew in Galicia by 0.32, while Spain dropped by 0.30 exactly. So we're talking about an increase in wages, about the average in Spain, of 0.6, which is something that would like everyone to improve, but obviously it's not a bad news. That, along with job creation, will improve equality, an equality that in Galicia has not deteriorated as much as in the rest of Spain. I want to remember Gini's index, made public by the IGE. In 2009 the index marked a 0.27 and now a 0.28. So we're doing things reasonably well. The increase in expenditure is very significant. It rises, in relation to the initial year, 490 million euros, i.e. a 5.4 — nominal GDP increases by 4.3 —. On the actual expenditure we approved last plenary session, the growth is 2.7 and the inflation envisaged in the macroeconomic framework is 1.4. Which means that it is partly true that in relation to GDP, public spending may not grow as much as GDP grows. But what is true is that public spending will rise above inflation. So there's a reasonable increase in public spending, which is what this spending rule expresses. And the most important thing is that we comply with the spending rule, we go to the limit of compliance with the spending rule, which guarantees the stability and sustainability of the accounts. But to highlight the importance of spending ceiling data, which is around EUR 9.500 million, what we have to do is compare it with the past. As for the year 2008, it is EUR 1 billion plus expenditure. And in relation to other exercises that have been mentioned in the last few days, it must be remembered that, with regard to 2008, there was an initial budget of 10,9 billion euros. And I say the last budget drawn up on the left in this House — Nationalist Block, in which there were some of the Tides, and more Socialist Party. It is EUR 10.9 billion that, if we discount the EUR 830 million of state transfers to local officials in Galicia — as the Board of Auditors has requested in one of its recommendations — and we have left the EUR 574 million that we are still returning for the negative liquidations spent in that exercise but not actually entered, it turns out that it gives EUR 9.496 million; that is, EUR 9.500 million. For you this spending ceiling is the total apocalypse and it turns out that it basically coincides in real spending capacity, without leaving anything to the governments of the future, with which you developed at the top of the economic cycle in 2008. They will understand that we are also pleased that, on this limit of expenditure, we will have to pay less interest as a result of access to the Financial Facility Fund. And yesterday we discovered that we will also have 6 or 7 million euros more available next year to make other investments as a result of the magnificent agreement that the President of the Board has just reached with the Minister of Development; 6 or 7 million euros that we will be able to spend on other activities and that, from next year on, this Government will be able to spend not on fees to favour Audasa, which is what the Bipartite has negotiated with the central state. [[Applause]] There are some differences, although the figures are similar to that magnificent left-wing progressive budget. First, now the economy is growing, not at the edge of the abyss. Second, they do it on a more solid and balanced basis, on exports, not on construction. Third, the spending structure varied: 80% of the expenditure now is social, which was not in 2008. Fourth, investments are maintained. Galicia is the second autonomous community in the period 2012-2016, following the Basque Country, which has the highest per capita self-investment: 2,041 euros versus an average of 1,268. We're paying the suppliers in eight days on average against a state average of 24.2. We are of the autonomous communities that have less increased debt and with a structural deficit that tends to zero, which guarantees the sustainability of public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Sometimes, when you hear some opposition voices, you think if you've learned something from the crisis. Europe has learned from the crisis and has made profound reforms in the banking field. And let us hope that it will continue with budgetary reforms now. Society has learned and is disalivating, it is reducing its indebtedness. And I wonder if some have learned anything from the crisis. Mrs Yolanda Díaz — this House's former companion — was concerned that all this on the ceiling was an ideological argument. He said on 11 July — when the spending ceiling was approved in the state — that this already predicted that we would have large cuts in the autonomous communities and less spending capacity. Today the spokesperson for En Marea recognized that something grows the ceiling of expenditure — therefore, it is an advance. And, of course, he comes here to teach economic lessons forgetting the first of all: that resources are scarce and unlimited needs. If we start fixing the needs, which are unlimited, I hope you won't find resources in the world. [[Applause]] But that's another problem. [[Applause]] Ways of budgeting fixing needs for later finding the money, using debt, rising taxes without taking into account the expansive effect of the tax drop we made for the lowest incomes and maintaining the wealth tax on Spain's highest levels, with a clear redistributive component... well, you criticize all this and I wonder what your model is. I suppose the model of some of your lordships is that example of the discrepancy or, as you said, the dissident in Venezuela. But I'm going to refer to the nearest models, I'm going to refer to the nearest models. [[Strong murmurers.]] Home!, you are dedicated to congratulating the Venezuelan people, who are not going through their best historical moment, with hunger, with repression and with persecution. [[Murmurs.]] And you defend her, we don't. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I was going to talk about the countries of southern Europe, like Portugal, which you say is an example, with a left-wing government. GDP is growing in Spain or 3%, Portugal is growing in 1.8%. The forecast of growth next year is the same. They continue to pay the fees on the highways, they continue to pay for going to the doctor, they didn't recover the purchasing power, strong casualties they had in the pensions... I, frankly, stay with the Spanish model, not with the Portuguese model. [[Applause]] The Greek model? Tsipras Greece, which now turns out to be praised by Mr. Schäuble as the distinguished disciple in southern Europe, or the model of Varofakis Greece, which is threatening to denounce Mr. Tsipras and take out recordings because, of course, Mr. Tsipras does not do what Mr. Varofakis wants? That is why some groups in this House, in these internal debates, seem like what is happening in Greece. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u68	Keynes said in 1934, in a letter addressed to the New York Times: "I see the problem of recovery from this point of view: on what scale, through which files and for how long is it advisable for the Government to continue spending abnormally?" This is the basis of Keynesian theory, the basis of countercyclical policies. When the economy grows, public spending must contain. For what? So, when they come in bad dice, you can spend yourself in debt more than the economy gives you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u70	We will continue to do these good economic practices. We will be able, with this expenditure ceiling, to alleviate the social effects of the crisis, to increase equal opportunities through education and to grow by encouraging businesses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u71	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u72	That's when we introduced the business implementation bill...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u73	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Thank you four times. Come on, come on. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u74	...for that work, to improve the employability of companies. That's why we wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u75	Thank you, five times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u76	...as always, with the best disposition for dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u77	Thanks, we're done. Thank you. This can't be like this. We can't go on like this over time. The plenary today has its duration, because if not, all Members would realize that it would be impossible, we would never finish the full. This is exceptional today. We're going to vote, therefore. Vote on the limit of non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2018, as referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2018 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-08-01-DSPG037.u78	No more fears. The session is therefore up. Good afternoon.
