ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. Let us resume the session with agenda item 6, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Belén Pontón Modelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Galician Union to ensure the return of the public title of the Peace of Meirás
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u3	Thank you very much. I would like to greet the people who are accompanying us today to follow this debate. Mr. Feijóo, on November 20, 1975 Arias Navarro pronounced this well-known phrase: "Spanish, Franco is dead." I was born after 1975 and I'm sorry to have to say today, "Galagues, Franco died but frankism is still alive." And it's still alive, ladies and gentlemen, because they made a transition that put an amnesty into the crimes and the murders of franchiseism in place, they imposed on us a monarchy that placed as head of the state to whom Franco had already appointed successor and a corrupt regime in which the economic and judicial elites of franchise were kept intact, which left everything tied and very well tied. [[Applause]] And we have a very practical example in our country. The Franco family has numerous and valuable assets of the Greek heritage: the palace of Cornide, two sizes of the Portico da Gloria or the palace of Meirás. And this is precisely what we today, Mr. Feijóo, want to talk to you. It's a spook for us, a kick to democracy, to see how the Francos want to turn Meiraes' palace into a kind of theme park of fascism with their complicity. And I'm talking about your complicity, Mr Feijóo, because I've known for months that the Francisco Franco Foundation has been managing the visits and has done absolutely nothing, nor have they denounced it. You know what they did? They gave him a letter of nature to that situation by spreading, through the official website of the Galician Union, the phone of the Francisco Franco Foundation. And I suppose that's normal to you. I say no to us, it seems to us a real nonsense, a democratic aberration, allowing the Franco Foundation and this family to continue to maintain privileges, apologizing fascism with absolute prepotence and absolute impunity. They threaten democratic political forces and even put more pain and suffering on the victims of franchise, who continue to expect the Spanish State to defend them and see clearly how no justice has been done in this state. But look, do you know why they act with this prepotency? Well, basically for two reasons. First of all, because the Franco family is almost free to violate the law and to apologize fascism. And the second, because you see how for decades the People's Party defended those goods that were stripped of during franchise and did absolutely nothing to change this situation. And if not, Mr. Feijó, look in his royal mirror. You were first against the fact that we had declared BIC the palace of Meirás. And once this hadn't gone back, what did you do? You gave the Franco family 50,000 euros to fulfill the legal obligation to open the palace. They have the merit of being, along with Mr. Aznar, the two politicians who have given the Franco family more public money. Look, I heard you say a few days ago in a sentence — I suppose you would have a bad day — that it was franchisee expropriating Meirás' palace. I believe that what is franchisee is to defend that a foundation is apologizing to fascism, what is franchisee is to support the bounties that franchise has created in this country. We — which is very clear to you — want the return of the palace of Meirás...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u5	...because it's from the Greek people, because it's been polished. What you're about to see, Mr. Feijóo, is what you're going to do. Will you continue, as so far, with a convolence complicit with this situation or will you start acting? Because he has mechanisms in his hand, political and legal, if he wants to use them, to end this absolute nonsense that we're living in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u7	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón, four years ruling in Galicia the Council of Culture, many others in various legislations, supporting the socialists in Madrid, and it turns out that you come to ask me what we have done in relation to the assets of the Franco family. We did things. You, unfortunately, have done very little. Look, Your Honor, in relation to families that have goods in Galicia, whether they accept or not accept democracy, they have the guarantee that there is a constitutional and democratic government that will comply with the law. That means he'll demand as long as the law is complied with. We're in a democracy and a rule of law, and that even protects those who don't believe in democracy and the rule of law. That is why that rule of law implies, firstly, equality for all persons; and secondly, the obligation of all public administrations to respect the Constitution and respect democratic laws. Do you share all this, Mrs. Pontón? Do you have to respect the laws? Should democracy be respected? Is it necessary to respect the Constitution? Do you share it, Mrs. Pontón? The Frankists, no. You share it? Mrs. Pontón, we're going to keep the law, it's our guide. And that's why, as this palace is a private BIC, and as it appears in the law of the State of 1985, in the Galician Act of 1995 and in the last law that it approved at the initiative of this Government the Italian Parliament in 2016, the owners of the BIC declared goods are obliged to open them four times a month and run with their maintenance. It was this government, Your Honor — you know for sure — that forced the Franco family to open that palace four days a month. [[Murmurs.]] And the board will continue to watch for the enforcement of the law, you have no doubt. Proof of this is that we have just sanctioned, for the first time in Galicia, the Franco family for violating the law concerning the palace of Meirás. And we just opened up last Friday new informational diversions for apparently breaking the law again. And you have no doubt that, in case it is checked, it will again be sanctioned. Your Honor, this Government did the first thing to do was comply with the law; the second was sanctioning the Franco family for non-compliance; the third, opening up litigation in the face of a possible repeated breach of the law. And I'm telling you, if there's any apology of frankism, we'll go back to the prosecutor. Mrs. Pontón, if there's apology of franchise, what did BNG do? Did you notify the prosecutor of that apologetics of frankism or does BNG believe the palace belongs to the BNG flag? No, Your Honor, we would like the palace to be out of all the Greeks. And that's why we're going to propose that the palace be of all the Greeks. In what way? Complying with her. I'm sorry you heard the radio interviews partially. What I said — and I repeat — is that there are two ways to do with that palace: through a purchase or through an expropriation. And I am convinced that the people I represent do not agree to pay that palace twice; in 1938, when it failed, and now when it comes to buying it again. Mrs. Pontón, I'm sure we don't agree with the Greeks. And what we're also thinking is, let's meet together, Your Honor, with the researchers, meet with the universities, plan from a legal point of view the free acquisition of that palace; believe the vices hidden in that 1938 prayer and continue for the free acquisition of the palace. Do you agree, Mrs. Pontón? Do you agree to comply with the law? Do you agree not to use Frankish laws...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u9	...to raid a property? Do you agree, Mrs. Pontón, not to seize a good outside the law? Democratic law allows us to be right, even with those who do not comply with the law. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u11	Mr Feijóo, look, there are many things that are important for politics to really make sense, and above all, of the statements you make in this Parliament to try to escape a subject that I see makes it very uncomfortable, I think they are absolutely important. Because here, Mr. Feijóo, there is a key question: the palace was not easy for the Franco family, it was a robbery and a policeman who was made to the people of this country just in the middle of civil war. [[Applause]] It's documented and studied what happened to the palace of Meiraes. They made forceful contributions, took householding properties, drove people out of their homes for the Franco family to visit in Meirades and even made an irregular diversion of public funds in a dictatorship. Of course, the laws are not neutral, and here we have a transition that shielded the sledge that the Franco family has made to this country. And since laws are not of divine origin, but they are of human origin, and I believe in democracy, in dialogue and in the right to change unfair things, because that's also part of democracy, we believe that we have to change a situation that is absolutely aberrant from a democratic point of view, as it is legally armouring a policeman, which is what you are offering us. [[Applause]] Look, there is already a commission that is created, the Commission for the Return of Peace of Meirás, driven by the Vice-President of the Crown Deputy, Goretti Sanmartín, in which not only is the Deputy, but rather the municipalities, the associations of recovery of historical memory. They have the doors open for the Galician Union and this Parliament to feel working on the work that is already under way to make a report for the recovery of that palace and the free return. What do you want? To do a commission from your experts to say that there is no vice and no irregularity and to keep the situation absolutely the same now? [[Applause]] Look, Mr Feijóo, today, in addition to this plenary, there will be an important debate in which the dignity of this Parliament and this country is at stake. And we believe that when the Franco family insults all the Greeks and all the Greeks by turning Meirás' palace into a Frankish theme park, democratic institutions must respond. And the first thing to tell the foundation and the Franco family is that it's ungracious people who come to our country to offend the victims of fascism. People who are not grateful in this country must be declared as long as they do not ask for forgiveness... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u13	...and return the palace of Meirades. Secondly, initiate a file for the illegalization of the Francisco Franco Foundation. Tell me with absolute sincerity, Mr. Feijóo: do you think it is of general interest to exalt the figure of Franco? Don't you think there's a bottom line vice in the legalization of a foundation that has to comply with the general interest? Tell me, because I think this is very important from a democratic point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u15	Finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u16	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u17	Just allow me one thing that I think is important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u18	Briefly, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u19	Let us put in place from this Parliament a legal change so that all the goods, not only the palace of Meirás, but also the statues of the Portico da Gloria or the palace of Cornide, which are in the hands of the Franco family because there was a robbery and a policeman, are returned to the public heritage. Because that, Mr. Feijóo, is doing something, and not just talking, which is what you do every day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. President's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u21	Thank you very much. Your Honor, for you the transition has been disastrous and for us it has been exemplary. That's a big difference between the Democrats and those who have not yet accepted constitutional democracy in Spain. [[Applause]] Your Honor, the Spanish transition allows you and I to be talking about the Franco dictator's family here. Since you didn't exist in franchise, you just invented it. And it turns out that, 40 years after Franco's death, he brings this matter to Parliament. It's all right, Your Honor. Are you more anti-Francist than all your fellow BNG mates these past 40 years? Is it really BNG that this matter is happening to you now and it hasn't happened to you for forty years? Didn't you, Your Honor, fight for freedom in Galicia and Spain and end a dictatorship and have an exemplary democracy? I don't think so, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u22	Quiet, please. Silence! Quiet, please! Mr. Rivas, be quiet, please. Quiet. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u23	What are we going to do, ladies and gentlemen, if there are still people who do not accept Spanish democracy, the Spanish Constitution or the Galician Autonomy Statute! Look, Your Honor, it turns out that the commission that we are going to propose, which is a college commission, are all from the PP. It turns out that the commission chaired by the Vice-President of the Coruña Parliament, Director of the BNG, is indeed democratic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Laughter]] No doubt, when BNG does something, it's democratic; and when others win elections, we rule, we're not democratic. [[Laughter]] That, Your Honor, is a surprising thing. [[Applause]] It's a surprising thing, Your Honor. Look, Your Honor, I was asking you about whether you accept the laws that come out of parliaments, the laws that come under the courts, the laws that respect constitutions, or, on the contrary, you do not accept them or accept them. He didn't answer me. All the Greeks saw her the other day in Barcelona, to you, asking for the law to be breached. You and I went to Barcelona in a little bit of time, I favor you to comply with the laws and you against. It's a big difference, Your Honor, it's a big difference! [[Applause]] That's why, as you defend the nonsense that has been committed in the Catalan Parliament, systematically violating all laws and against the reports of the House's lawyers, and I will comply with the law, I tell you that Mrs. Pontón and the Franco family, while I am president, will comply with the law. And to comply with the law, Your Honor, we have two options: to believe vices hidden in that prayer and to leave without effect the prayer — option 1 — or option 2, which is to put money on the Greeks to buy the same property again twice. It gives me the feeling that the Francisco Franco Foundation and its intervention interconnected. Because it feels like the Francisco Franco Foundation has a lot of interest in us paying her back. And know that while I'm president we won't pay the court again I'd bother, Your Honor, that in the year 38 and 2018 we're paying the same court again. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, if there is any apology of frankism on the part of that foundation, since you're not going to do anything or have done it, transfer it to the Government. You have a commitment that this Government in Galicia will comply with the law, and consequently that family or any other government will comply with the law. But, Mrs Pontón, about lessons in democracy — especially at the moment — by BNG, none. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u24	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u25	Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u26	To correct my words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u27	Recital your own words?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u28	Since the president of the board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u29	I'm sorry, I haven't heard it from the beginning. Is it to correct your own words?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u30	Yes, correct my own words. Since the president of the board made me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u31	Yes, yes, in the Rules of Procedure it is possible to correct your own words. Yes, yes, I'm sorry. [[Strong murmurers.]] You can correct your own words. Quiet, please! [[Protests.]] Silence! What is the exact correction, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u32	Well, I think Mr. Feijó asked me a direct question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u33	No, the exact word, rectification.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u34	...as to whether I believe in democracy or not. And what I want to tell you is that a party that is charged with corruption for violating the laws...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u35	No, no, you don't have a word. Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor, you don't have the floor. That's not a correction, the correction must be known to put it, it's not a correction. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the impact that will have the regulation provided for in the preliminary draft law amending the health law of Galicia in the health care of the districts in which their health areas will disappear
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u36	Mr. Leicega, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u37	Good morning. On this subject, you have already announced that my group in the next plenary will give everyone an opportunity to agree on a technical and plural commission for the return of the palace of Meirás. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the preliminary draft amendment to the Galician Health Act is having an unusual social challenge, both because of the slightest possibility of patient participation and, above all, because of the elimination of the sanitary areas of the Salnes, the Sea of Lugo, the Land of Lemos and the district of Valdeorras. We ask you to remove the preliminary draft, in form and in the background. This is the way because the project is made public in August, the second day, to make it difficult to participate, with fifteen days of allegations in the two weeks of most numerous parties in Galicia, in full vacation period. Only because of social pressure lasted 15 days longer that possibility of allegations. In spite of everything, 2,000 allegations have been made, a symptom that health is of concern to all Galicians and Greeks, but also that society has a serious risk of reducing health services if the pre-project reaches its end. There would be many more allegations, no doubt, in a standardized process. Think about it and go back to the exit box. The amendment of the Health Act was not foreseen in your 2016 election program, nor was it quoted in the investment speech you delivered in this House. And we're talking about the most important law in Galicia's health system. But also from the bottom. The elimination of the four health areas continues the path taken by the creation of the EOXI, which reduced functional and organic autonomy of the comarcas hospitals. Now they're given another round. Staff meetings rightly consider it a new step in the reduction of services, dragging citizenship away from the proper treatments and making life difficult for too many people. None of the hospitals in these health areas maintain the services that existed before EOXI conformation, and others are kept only partially, one or two days, with the consequent accumulation of expectations and reduction of the service for citizens. The economic recovery to the service of the citizens we defend means to provide more resources for health care by hiring the necessary professionals, which would enable us to strengthen the hospitals of those we speak by completing attention in areas such as dialysis — only possible at the Costa Hospital — or neurophysiology, which is absent in all of them. It's about strengthening and completing quality care and not giving it away, because that only benefits private health. The preliminary draft clearly collects a symbolic modification of the Government's intentions. While the law of 2008 expressed the importance of meeting the health needs of the population itself, it is now taken as an objective to achieve an optimal use of available resources. The needs of the population or the dependency on available resources, that's the change you're introducing now, which will affect the health offered to the Greeks and to the Greeks. There must be no first health and no second health. And this preliminary draft wants to condemn those people who live far away from the big hospitals, a substantial part of our citizenship, to a second health care. You should know how long it takes you from Carballeda from Valdeorras to Ourense, or from The Viceroy or from Folgoso from Courel to Place. If you don't know, I'll tell you, too long for a first-rate health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u38	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u39	Mr. Leicega, I appreciate the realization of your question, it's a very explicit question. You wonder if the regulation of the draft Health Act will improve health care. The answer is yes. It'll improve health management. All the legal initiatives we propose and all the decisions we make in the Government from the point of view of health will improve Galician public health. That's the only objective, Mr. Leicega: how can we improve the public health of the Greeks? Mr. Leicega, despite the economic crisis, despite the economic recession, despite the hole they left us, despite having EUR 2,500 million less every year, no one is arguing today that we have better public health. Better because 70% of the Greeks live in an area where we have a new health center, or a new hospital, or a reformed hospital. Better because we made the greatest technological investment that is remembered in the Galego Health Service, 80 million euros — for magnetic nuclear resonances, for linear accelerators, for TACs, for mammographs, etc.. Better, Your Honor, because for the first time we've worked out the quick ways; that is, those where in a minimum period people have to be cared for. Better because we have more treatments, more oncotoxic treatments, more treatments for hepatitis C, more vaccines, more scribbled ones — for example colon cancer and rectum. And better because in the last two years we've had a waiting list below that we had in previous years. Your Honor, I will not hide from you that we have every interest in the world for knowing exactly what the Greeks say about that text. Because you're charging me that we want to do I don't know how many things, when what we're presenting was a draft; a draft for, naturally, knowing the postures and the proposals. We informed the unions before opening the claim period. We had meetings with professional schools and with municipal representatives. You say that at that stage of allegations, despite being August, allegations have been made. Your Honor, what are we left with? It wasn't 2,000, it was 1,579. Do you know how many allegations were made to the articulated? 34. The rest, Your Honor, as you know, are generic claims; but concretions, 34. Look, Mr. Leicega, what you just said. What does this law do? To adapt to the reality of every day the legal texts. Since 2010 we have been organizing an integral area organization structure. That's what we've been doing: what we've been doing since the year 2010 has been doing in law. And it's been bad since 2010? Mr. Leicega, would you like me to remind you of what your colleagues said about the comarcas hospitals when we made that structure of the integrated areas? Look, in Salnés, for example, at the BNG, in 2009: "You will lose all your services and no further expansion of the Salnés Hospital will continue." The result is 9 million euros of investment at Salnés Hospital: surgical block, emergency and hospital expansion [[Applause]] Your Honor, what did the socialists say at that time in the Navy hospital, my friend and former deputy, Mr. Rego, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? Read: "Sustains the complete disappearance of the Costa Hospital's Director Plan" Result: execution, 13 million euros of the Costa Hospital's Director Plan and the largest expansion of the Costa Hospital's history. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, you have to choose, you have to choose. Mr. Leicega, if you want to improve the law, I'm at your disposal. If you want to describe again the apocalypse described in 2009 or the Greeks believe it, and it gives me the feeling, Mr. Leicega — listen to what I say — that your militants will not believe it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u41	Yes. Mr Feijóo, I would like to reiterate: what you have to do is remove the preliminary draft and, on the other hand, strengthen hospital care throughout the autonomous community and, in particular, in the health areas that are now in question. It's a matter of priority and political will. Don't assume so much data, don't assume so much. Because it's true that we have quality health, supported by delivered professionals, but they're starting to be sick of having to be them who guarantee adequate care to patients. Public data from the CIS health barometer of 2016, which is made under the auspices of Mr. Rajoy's Government, tells us that Galicia has the third most valued health care of the autonomous Spanish communities for its patients, the third! , only in front of the Canarias clearly, only in front of the Canary Islands, the third worst rated. [[Applause]] And 4 out of 5 people who are consulted by CIS tell us that we need to make substantive changes, changes in favor of increasing their public character, reducing waiting lists and increasing services. It does not go contrary to what they think 4 of every 5 of the included Greeks, especially militants and socialist voters, by the way. And there's no need for professionals to be able to incorporate into this health care, it's not a resource problem available, the resources are already there. Many of those we have trained in recent years are serving in the United Kingdom, Portugal or elsewhere. We need a policy that is determined by public health and allocates the resources that is giving us economic recovery to be able to capture the professionals that we form and march with stable contracts, just strengthening those areas where we need them most. Do you know how many medical specialties are missing in the four hospitals mentioned? About 40 in each of them, not always the same, around 40, with inexplicable imbalances if it's not because there's a plan to gradually reduce the number of specialties that people offer in each of them. Why can they have cardiology in Valdeorras or Salnes but not in the Navy or Monforte? Are they less prone in Lugo to this kind of disease? Do the offsets better bear? And by the way, a cardiology service in Salnes that serves only one or two days a week and only the people of Arousa Vilagaría, but not the rest of the health area. Why is this so? Why don't you provide these services with more personal care and allow them to look after everyone? Why can it be done in places and not in others? Why can there be endocrinology or nephrology at all but the Coast Hospital, for example? I know there's ongoing investments in Salneum with European funds or on the coast. By the way, after many years of promises and now put in a very late manner. But making investments to reduce attention is a form of waste that deserves specific treatment. How is it understood that Salnes does not extend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u43	...the emergency room, but you don't have more health professionals, are there no staff increases? I repeat: remove the project, avoid the creation of a second division health care and strengthen the comarcas hospitals to avoid favouring the advancement of private care. Don't listen to me or the Socialist Group, pay attention to the mayors of the areas, pay attention to the health personnel, who are going to concentrate right now in front of the door...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u45	...of hospitals, or the citizens who are supporting this kind of behavior. Listen to the citizenry and you'll be right, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u46	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u47	Mr. Leicega, I've been commenting on what your ex-companies were saying before -- they're not here anymore -- about what was going to happen since 2009 in the comarcas hospitals. And the fact is that all the comarcal hospitals have improved their technological services, their services, their consultations, and most of them have renewed their facilities. I'm used to, Your Honor, talking about education and health seems to be a matter exclusively of what has been called traditionally from the 19th century to the left. And it turns out, Your Honor, that the improvement of public education and the improvement of public health in Galicia is the work of a party like the Galician People's Party, probably, Your Honor, because we've been ruling for some time, it's true, because we've been ruling longer than you. [[Applause]] But as you know, before we talked about democracy, it is democracy, Mr Leicea, to think that the Greeks vote freely and the governments rule and we realize. Mr. Leicega, your predecessors in that chair said Sergas paid every doctor 30 euros for giving high frauds and lowering the waiting list. It's in the Journal of Sessions. They also said in the electoral campaign — it's written and printed with the PSOE — that Feijóo was won, they would charge patients in emergencies, specialist consultations and hospital incomes. Mr. Leicega, which Socialist Party do you want to represent? You shot thousands of people on the street in Vigo saying Vigo's hospital was private. And it turns out, Your Honor, that you lied to the whole vigue society and -- which is more difficult and more responsible -- they divided the vigue society. So, Your Honor, I am very proud of what we have done in health care. If you want to argue in that law, the provision. But you can't deny me that that law doesn't diminish the quality of health services at any hospital. And you know what we want, Your Honor? What we want is that specialists can voluntarily go from Lugo to Marine or from Lugo to Monforte. What we want is that specialists can voluntarily go to the Barco and Verín. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know why, Your Honor? Because when we got to the government most of the services they provide today in those hospitals they didn't lend. And what we forced people to do was take the car from that Valdeorras Carballeda and go to Ourense. Do you know what we want now? Let the experts voluntarily consult the boat so that the Carballeda de Valdeorras don't go to Ourense and the Viceroys don't go to Lugo. Your Honor, that is the big difference between this proposal and another proposal. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when I arrived there was a need for an endoscopy tower and a mammogram and a TAC on the boat. They are. When I arrived there was a platform in Monforte where we were told we were going to close the hospital. Well, in Monforte we invested a million euros, there's a digital mammogram and an echocardiograph. And in Monforte for the first time there are consultations on allergy, dermatology, hematology and oncology. Do you know how many Monfortins we managed not to go to Lugo? Over 8,500. Are you against or in favor? Do you want the patients to move or do you want the doctors to move? Your Honor, I think doctors are public servants, we are proud of doctors, and that's why the vast majority of doctors understand that moving within their area does not lead to any harm, but it's an honor to practice the best public health throughout the province of Lugo, across the province of Coruña, across the province of Ourense and across the province of Pontevedra. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, I hope with my hands arranged to improve the text. Once your election campaign is over, Mr. Leicega, I hope you sit here to further improve the text of public health, to you, as is natural, or to what the Socialist Party decides. But, Mr. Leicega, you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Speaking of militants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u48	Quiet, quiet. You're done, Mr. President. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u49	Mr. Leicega, you're right, I'm not going to answer to anyone who doesn't show up for anything. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u50	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the knowledge by the Government of Galicia of the social consequences of the precarious labour model that is being applied in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, when a person works, aspires to be able to earn bread, aspires to be able to live quietly, safely, desires to be able to come by the end of the month and pay his bills. Young people and girls who find work aspire to be able to be emancipated from their parents' homes, and people who, living alone or living together, want to form a family aspire to, if they work, have resources to do so. But in many homes in Galicia nothing of this happens: neither security nor emancipation nor resources to form a family; there are many people who work and don't get out of poverty. The main problem that many people have in Galicia today, especially many young people, these young people you haven't been able to send to emigration, is precarious work. The People's Party, which has been responsible for labour reforms, which has been responsible for migration, has now established a system of work which establishes precariousness as a labour rule. Precautionary is characterized by three notes. First of all, by temporality. Having a contract is not synonymous with having a job today. It took a million contracts last year in Galicia to create only 18,000 jobs. And an employee—and we say hired because precarious work has, above all, a woman's name—needs to concatenate about ten contracts after a year to work that whole year in a row. In those conditions, how can we aspire to the safety of our people, and especially young people, if you don't know if you're going to work the next month, the next week or even the next day? The second feature is low wages. A precarious person averages 32% less than a person with an indefinite contract, which in Galicia translates from an average to 8,000 euros less a year. So how do we expect people to plan their lives well? And from precarious jobs and low wages, you know people who're working at the inn, in the service sector, restating boxes in the big multinationals. Precautionary, poorly paid jobs, and besides — it's the third feature — with loss of rights. Loss of rights, first of all, the 20,000 people who are false autonomous people in Galicia when they had to be hired. Secondly, because these people don't have the right to rest on weekends, they don't have the right to vacation, simply because if they agree to work, one day after another, contract, contract... when they really had to have a single contract and lose rights. And besides with more accident risk, because the rate of labor and mortality are fired in precarious contracts. That way it's impossible to make a happy life. Because it's hard to be happy when you don't know what's going to happen the next day with the contract or the job people have. And this has a clear responsibility on the part of the People's Party. And he has, first of all, because he is responsible for two labour reforms, two labour reforms that have led to loss of rights, conditions in many cases of absolute freedom to choose or not to work because the conditions of the labour market are absolutely miserable. And secondly, because what has been created and is being created structurally is a precarious structure job, it's mini-work, which are mini-salaries with maxi-hours, coming, as we are, to a situation that has been unpublished since the 19th century. Today in Galicia, since 2015, less than 10% of the new job created is undefined contracts, and 51% of the people who work in Galicia are already precarious. The question is clear, Mr. Feijóo, what does your party do to end this shame?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u52	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u53	Mr. Villares, I'm glad we can talk about work. And I thank him because it is the first and highest priority of this government. We know there are 181.125 unemployed women or men in Galicia. And that is why the main task of any government — and I understand that any responsible parliamentary group — is to see how we deal with these difficulties. Your Honor, there's a lot left to do, no doubt. Tell me that when I got to the government, the number of last year's unemployment before taking office as president was a drop of 54,000 more unemployed in Galicia and 50,000 fewer affiliates to Social Security. That's why, Your Honor, I think it would be a mistake not to value what has been able to do to Galician society in recent years. And I'm sorry that you haven't made any reference to what you've been able to make autonomous, self-employed and businessmen these years in Galicia. Look, Your Honor, we just got to know the data recorded in August of unemployment and, for the first time in the last eight years, we're under the 190,000 unemployed. Exactly in August we have 181.125 stops. I mean, less than in August of 2009, when I was lucky and honored to be President of the Union. Social Security affiliations have been on the rise for three consecutive years, and today we have over 97,000 memberships more than when we arrived at Joining in 2009. I mean, we recovered 60 percent of Galician Social Security membership in 2008, a year of full economic kindness. Mr. Villares, I'm sorry that you, from then on, are starting to get the data wrong. I guess they either hurt them or just make them up. indefinite employment in Galicia every 100, 75. You just said that 51 percent of Galician employees are in precarious shape. False, false, Mr. Villares. You have the possibility of rectification. See, in 2008, indefinite employment in the Autonomous Community did not reach 69%, and now it's at 75%. I suppose he'll correct the data. Busy full-time, in Galicia 86% and in Spain 84.7%. Regarding the evolution of wages, I will not defend myself as if the income is distributing after the crisis, but I will defend that wealth in Galicia today is greater than the moment of economic kindness but the income is not properly redistributed from the wage point of view. Of course, that's my opinion. But that doesn't mean Galicia is among the five autonomous communities where wages have dropped less, between the five, Your Honor. So, Mr. Villares, I think you should correct some of the data you just offered to the House because they're fake, and that's what we're doing, getting us to work, what happens is that when you see exactly what your proposals are, your proposal is usually job destruction: this company has to be closed, this company has to be sealed, this activity cannot be done, that one cannot be done. And what are the proposals of En Marea? Voting against the law of corporate impulse in the autonomous community we brought yesterday? But doesn't even consider it appropriate for En Marea to be able to discuss it? No, he retires. And now he's talking about work. Look, we've been counting on En Marea's employment initiatives. En Marea's employment initiatives are immediately transformed into 15,000 more unemployed. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, as you've had a job done, and it gives me the feeling that that's your goal, because you don't realize that the problem is the 181.125 Greeks and Greeks who are unemployed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u55	Those, Your Honor, are our concern. I hope from now on it's yours too. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u57	Mr. Núñez, we asked you about measures against precariousness, and in four long minutes, which were not three, you haven't mentioned a single measure that your Government is taking against precariousness. You have the closing shift so you can dedicate it to answering your question. [[Applause]] You want data, you want certainty and you want specifics. I'll give it to you because you've already told them more, and I'm willing to give it to you now too, what happens is that there's a problem: I'm afraid you won't want to hear them, as always happens to you with your arrogance of the absolute majority. And I say this because, of course, without presenting any proposals it is impossible to replicate this. In any case, the proposals made by the People's Party on job improvement are proposals that usually fall into broken pockets, paper wet and then put them on other things. Look, when the 2016 budgets were settled, the People's Party left without spending 56 million euros on training, employment and improvement in the quality of employment. Do you want data? They're here. Mr. President, take care. Mr. President! Data on the liquidation of 2016: two vocational training schemes for unemployed people, of which 21 million euros were not used wide; and another one on improving the promotion of employability, where 33 million euros were not used. [[Laughter]] Of course, then we came here and announced measures, or like in this case, we don't even talk about measures, and yet we have to give you all the data you give us. Well, we're not doing the right thing! We believe that people who are working precariously have the right to improve their living conditions, and you are not. Why did this lack of investment occur in that money that was budgeted? Why are they going to do it this year? To pay again the light bulbs of Gaiás? Or perhaps this year's change of credit serves — as it has already been done in July — to pay for the court rulings for its windscreen? Are we going to have to pay all of the Galicians their infamous electoral campaigns, which have led to the fact that the spending on public buildings of 3 million euros is now recognized? You pay them off your pocket, that was your election campaign, or that the People's Party pays for it, because it served to campaign based on a lie that we're now paying all of them. [[Applause]] Three million euros! Three million euros that we are going to have to pay, not representatives, but all citizenship, and that you are doing for a credit change, for an election promise that led to the Official Journal of Galicia, and that was simple and absolutely illegal, which led them to pay 3 million euros now. Get him out of your pocket! Let the People's Party pay for it! We don't have to pay for the whole citizenship!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u59	People have the right to know this. You have the right to know that for your wind cover we are now paying 3 million euros that could be destined to fight against work insecurity. And you precaution workers know a lot, you know a lot! That's why they supplement the wages of their high charges with envelopes in black money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u60	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u61	Mr. Villares, you and what you say! You're talking about measurements. We just brought a law to the plenary yesterday, and he said... and he said to his... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u62	Quiet, please. Silence! We have to listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u63	...indign neighbors, who are comrades, that this was yellow. Okay, come on! You're still on the verge of your labor policy, which we will certainly succeed. Mr. Leicega... excuse me, Mr. Leicega. Mr. Villares, you're talking about measurements. Look, the Employment Agenda is approved and published and is our basic measure. Yesterday the councillor broke down the measure package for the autonomous. You're against it, too. We're helping the indefinite hire for pemen up to 10,000 euros per worker. You're against it. We're devoting more than 30 million euros to youth employment. You're against it. Tomorrow, at the Council meeting, we will approve another section of EUR 13 million for employment in the field of disability. I'm sure you'll be against it, too. That's why we're used to you coming here and saying, no, 51% of Galicia's jobs are precarious. False, 75% of Galician jobs are fixed. And he doesn't care. And you go ahead and say I can't take it. What do you want me to answer? Do you want me to take some data you give seriously? If you don't even know what credit incorporation is! Mr. Villares, you study the Economic and Financial Management Act, and you'll see that the credits can be incorporated in the following exercises, otherwise you wouldn't talk to me about these 50 million euros of what you're talking about. But let's go on. Look, we've just heard of you worrying about the economic situation of many Greeks. We didn't agree with that. What we don't agree with is to send everyone who works in Reganosa to the ground. What we don't agree with is that we can't extend the PSA-Peugeot-Citroën facilities in Vigo, because otherwise that factory shut down and 7,000 families were unemployed. What we don't agree with is that the thermal power plant of the bridges and the power plant of the Soapón are closed, because otherwise they're going to be unemployed. What we didn't agree with, Your Honor, is your employment policies, because otherwise there would be more unemployment. That's why there's a big difference between their policies and ours. I understand you're worried about the wage level. So do we. But that EPA you're talking about when you're interested says that youth unemployment in Galicia dropped 9 points. But you're not interested in that. And that we have less youth unemployment than the rest of Spain. He doesn't care. That EPA you don't talk about says that the homes with all their members unemployed dropped 9.5 points; that is, more than 7,200 homes less. Mr. Villares, what are you talking about? Are you talking to me about 181,000 unemployed? That's my first concern. But no proposal of what you're talking about can I take it seriously. Yes, it is true, Your Honor, that I have heard you sometimes worried not about employment measures, but about the working conditions of some of the workers, and the first thing you brought to this House was about the working condition of you, your payroll. Yes, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] And the Greeks learned by reading the papers. You've had a problem in your group about what you charge, and I don't know how it's worked out or what I'm interested in. But telling you about the wage conditions of the Greeks is a surprising thing. Mr. Villares, if you don't like politics, you go back to your former profession. By the way, Your Honor, do you believe that the laws must be complied with or not? Do you abide by the judgments of the Constitutional Court or not? [[Murmurs.]] Do you abide by the judgements of the Supreme Court or not? Mr. Villares, as you do at the time of the judgments of the courts, what do you think if the Greeks never take heed of the judgments that you may come to dictate? Mr. Villares, you have given an explanation to the Greek democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u64	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u65	Unfortunately, Mr. Villares, there are many busy and concerned Greeks to follow your professional path. I hope, Your Honor, that he never dictates a sentence again in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u67	Mr. President of the Board asked a question and I'd like to answer it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u68	No, that's a rhetorical question in the debate. You know exchange is not allowed. Thank you. We continue with point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union to promote the training of unemployed people through the ‘training check’
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u69	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u70	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u71	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. In a plenary session marked by the approval of the adoption of the Enterprise Implementation Act, which will convert Galicia into the Autonomous Community which gives more facilities to invest, with less bureaucratic obstacles, more incentives and less taxation, with the presence yesterday of the counsellor to explain the 2020 Self-Government Strategy, the People's Parliamentary Group is now presenting an initiative in the field of Vocational Training for Employment. Such training, in the areas of work and regulation, is a key tool for the improvement of the Spanish economy, to improve the productivity and competitiveness of our companies, and of course to improve the employability of our workers. There are thousands of jobs in Europe that are not covered by the lack of skilled workers, and in our country there are still lists of jobs that are empty because of lack of training, which requires new solutions for the qualification of workers, especially those who are unemployed. There is no doubt that the competitiveness of our companies is very much related to the training of workers and to the profound changes that occur permanently in the economic system. From the People's Group we believe it's a right to work on their personal and professional development, and also to have a greater and better ability to adapt to changes in the labour market. In 2014, the Spanish employer estimated 80,000 vacancies for the coming years due to the disconnection between the education system and the labour market, which shows the competitiveness and productivity of companies, and the data, ladies and gentlemen, did not improve in 2017. Therefore, in a scenario of economic recovery and growth, one of the key management concerns, it must be to promote the creation of employment as high as possible, so workers entering the labour market will need to do so with the profiles best suited to what this demand demands at any given time. Galicia is consolidated as the region that increases the most inter-monthly affiliation in absolute terms, and increases the quality and stability of jobs. Our community was located in August under the 190,000 unemployed, with 11,920 unemployed less than a year ago, chaining four consecutive years of fall in the annual evolution of August, in which nearly 1 in 3 unemployed left their unemployment lists. Although we are aware that much work remains to be done — hence the two initiatives I spoke about earlier and presented yesterday in this House — we can say that the German labour market continues to improve and that it contributes to improving the state unemployment data. We have less unemployment, more full-time employment and a steady rate of activity with a positive trend, with fewer unemployed and more busy in one of the priority groups, such as youth. In employment specialization, training plays a key role, according to the competences that companies demand for new jobs and that unemployed people consider better to be able to strengthen their professional skills. From the People's Parliamentary Group we consider the renewal of the training system essential, so that it is appropriate to the needs of businesses and also to enable workers to exercise their right to their training, to be able to choose. That's why today's initiative was already part of our electoral programme, which has reached, ladies and gentlemen, a majority backing in the polls in the autonomous elections of nearly a year ago. It is essential for us to enhance freedom in the supply and demand of training and in the needs of the market, always looking at the emerging sectors of our economy, which are very scarce staff with key competences. In an attempt to solve this and other problems of the qualification of workers, the Courts approved Law 30/2015, which regulates the vocational training system for employment in the labour market, which provides that the competent public services may, as an alternative to the financing of calls, through grants, provide a training check for unemployed workers. The regulatory development of July 3rd has enabled autonomous communities to have this modality. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to improve their employability, unemployed workers will receive from their respective public employment services a check-training that believes them to carry out, as their custom and insertion itinerary, some of the training actions included in the community's training program. Cheque-training will enable the worker to participate in a training activity with a pre-established cost, without any case assuming an economic contribution from the worker. Ladies and gentlemen, the public employment services of the community will pre-detect the training needs of unemployed workers from their profile, drawn up in accordance with the common portfolio of services of the National Employment System. They will count on the programming of a comprehensive and sufficient training offer to meet the individual needs identified, once related to the training and employment requirements of the production system. They shall select the training entities concerned to adhere to the form of training cheques, which shall be accredited and registered in the corresponding register, and shall not be able to subcontract third parties the execution of the training activity. The Administration will also develop an information and follow-up system specific to the worker's training activity, which will allow the online connection of the selected training entities to the Public Employment Service. The most important thing is that the worker will choose, among the training entities selected by the Administration, the one in which he wishes to perform the training action, and once the training has been completed and justified, the Administration will grant to the training entity the amount corresponding to the training check. Ladies and gentlemen, a remarkable requirement is that, prior to the start of this check, consultations will be held with more representative business and trade unions, delimiting the sectors in which it will apply, and will, of course, inform the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, workers in unemployment will have autonomy and freedom in order to choose their training and where to pursue it. Of course, the unemployed will not be alone in the choice of training, they will count on and count on the work mentors who work in the offices that the Galician Union has throughout the community; in particular, 126 work guides distributed in 53 offices, of which 50 are assigned to children under 30 years of age. In addition, they will also count on the labour leaders who are subsidised by the Government of the United Nations in the municipalities and non-profit institutions, for those who are destined for the year more than 6 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the impetus that has been given to vocational training for employment since the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry is being made up of more than 100 million euros of budget for this year 2017 for training for both employees and the unemployed, and for older people as well as for youth. Lines for unemployed people with 56 million euros; among them, specific training units for companies that have difficulty finding qualified staff. There's 20 million more for workshops, 83 jobs workshops all over Galicia. EUR 9.5 million more for programmes for municipalities and non-profit entities. EUR 14.5 million more in public network training centres in Galicia. EUR 4.3 million more to assist in the formation of youth guarantee unemployed, with the aim of this action, which will develop between 2017 and 2018, continue to reduce youth unemployment, which has fallen by 12.56% last year, and accelerate rural education by creating stable jobs and setting populations in these areas. And, of course, without leaving aside the training for employees, the Government of the Union has just allocated €22.5 million to training for employed and self-employed people who will benefit 12,000 workers in Greece, to adapt the training of the unemployed to the new demands of the labour market and therefore the productive fabric in Greece. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you will agree with me that there is no excuse for you not to support this initiative which today brings to this House the Group of the People's Party, and that it is to urge the Council of Galicia to introduce the cheque-training in our community so that unemployed people have a training credit, choose the training they want to receive and the entity in which they want to be given. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to provide freedom for the unemployed, oriental to more specialized and appropriate training for the current labour market in order to achieve greater quality and stability. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u73	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The first thing I want to do today, Mrs. Novoa, is really to congratulate them. Congratulations from the Socialist Group because there has finally been an employment initiative at the plenary session of the Galician Parliament outside the majority group of this House. We've been claiming it for a long time, for almost a year now that this legislation has begun. I have to acknowledge my naivety and that of my group, when we were told that there was a registered initiative of the People's Party, the truth is that we think it would be for some of the most serious problems this autonomous community has in terms of employment, and we think it would be to combat the increase in unemployment among children under 25. Because, of course, data can be reversed, you can turn around and you can say that youth unemployment has dropped. We could also talk about how many are out there and the net balance there is. But the reality is that among children under the age of 25 unemployment in Galicia has risen, that's the reality. We could also talk about why we have the highest rate of deadly labor weakness in all of Spain, which is twice as much as the state average. [[Applause]] They could present an initiative to reduce a temporality, according to the latest data, by 94%. But no, the truth is that today you decided to bring this initiative with a clear objective, which is to wash your face to the Minister of Employment, to throw a hood from Galicia to your companion, who doesn't practice -- we don't know whether it's because of ignorance or because it's not in your DNA -- dialogue. You said that, indeed, this training check is made available to the autonomous communities, but you have obviously mentioned two issues — three, better said — that we have considered important since the Socialist Group. The first one comes from the 2012 work reform, although we don't mention it, and the repercussions continue to be noticed. The second and fundamental point is that there were 10 out of 17 autonomous communities who signed a manifesto specifically asking that the dialogue resume and that this be done with consensus. He also mentioned the trade union organizations, and they have the merit that you have managed to remain alone in this measure, because he says it is part of the social dialogue, but "UGT believes that the government mocks social dialogue by adopting the training decree. Commissions expects the Ministry of Employment to withdraw the proposal from the training check." The truth is we now know once again that you live on the same planet as Mrs Bañez, where we see that in the labour market it is spring, but the reality is that we continue to hibernate, that we continue in the middle of winter in the labour market; that the only thing that flourishes in this autonomous community is underemployment, precariousness and emigration. But we're going to talk about training. We tabled an amendment because if we have proposals on this matter, and we believe that precisely now that we know through the OECD — not data from the Socialist Party — that we have the worst education rates in the FP almost throughout Europe, we consider this matter important. We must ensure the participation of trade union and business organisations, it cannot be a new attack on trade union organisations to leave them without funds. We also need to have sufficient and fair funding, because you could start by asking the Government to support the shameful 49.07% figure among funds devoted to the formation of unemployed and unemployed without running the previous budgetary period. And I don't say so by the Socialist Group, that the remainder is being used, claiming the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman himself. We also have an issue which is of great importance to us and which has not mentioned the People's Party either, and it is the very serious data that still exists of unemployment among women; data that goes at a speed other than men's and that continues to increase that unemployment data. To us, the truth is, what we really would like to see is that you have not brought here an initiative with the sole aim of pursuing this privatization that you carry in your DNA; a privatization that leads to what you propose, as you propose — I emphasize, as you propose — is a privatization that is not even hidden because it is clearly seen, which will mean that the unemployed have to choose their own training courses, as if the responsibility for people being formed in this country was not this Government. It's not an individual responsibility, it's a collective responsibility. The Socialist Group does not defend or believe that, in the way this check is proposed, it is viable or will have an impact on the improvement of training. We called it colloquially as if it were that of the points of Travel. I mean, let's just remind ourselves a little bit that one that you can't afford to buy in certain establishments accumulate points, pick up the catalogue, and look exactly for which private company wants to cash them. We want a public training system, as it has existed so far. Of course we agree that there is a need for improvement, but of course, far from any kind of privatization, which is what you want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u75	Good day to all and all. In fact, at the beginning of last July, Royal Decree 694/2017, which opens this possibility that, instead of training for quality, public and planned employment, it is replaced by a training check. Again in the summer and trying to get it to pass unnoticed, but it seems they haven't achieved it, because they've been raised in arms — as it has been said here — to many autonomous communities, to trade union organizations and employers. In some cases simply by form, but in some others — as is the case with BNG — also by the background. This initiative, this occurrence, is a further consequence of the infamous labour reform of the People's Party; a pelagic labour reform of capitalist, neoliberal ideology, which was the only one that brought about that precarious labour market, that fall in wages, that rotation in work, that exclusion, and also what led to the dynamite of collective bargaining. In addition to all this, in its third final provision, this infamous labour reform envisaged the possibility of assessing the creation — put together with the social agents — of the start-up, of this training check. Where I put "evaluating" is a reality. Where I put "together with the social agents," it was when I said it, as I said and without talking to anyone. In any case, the training model that the People's Party is trying to implement is an opaque model. With regard to the training of employed workers, the royal decree reduces the control and participation of social agents; it creates a market of courses that favours large business groups of training services; it imposes conditions that expel other options, improves funding for these large companies, hinders access to pemes and self-employed people and thus reduces the rights of workers' representatives in the monitoring of legality and in the monitoring of the interests of the working class. They push this opaque model, without quality indicators and no controls. And as far as training for the unemployed is concerned, this royal decree is carried out without guarantees, this formative check. It consists of a virtual account, where each worker or worker is amassing points with the contribution that businesses and their own workers make to the contribution base when they work, and when they get unemployed, that contribution becomes effective to receive training. It's obvious, it jumps to the eye, the similarity of this model with the educational developments to foster private teaching, or health care to shift public services to private services; we can talk about the subject of well-being to move it to children's schools. And now what the People's Party does is a second step, it goes from this mode in the social sphere to the labour market, as it is already trying to do in the framework of labour health. What does the Government of the People's Party and other governments do? They start by degrading and deteriorating public services and then privatize the most profitable functions with the excuse — usually proved to be false — of their effectiveness. The People's Party in 2015 used this scenario as an alibi to carry forward a campaign to impose its training model. As we know, the People's Party, as a maximum representative of neoliberalism, is proposing to reduce our lives to a check: training check, health check, education check, university check, checks in B, and now checks for training. Instead of public services, what they're proposing is to reduce the world to an individual check; and to minimize the public, to reduce it to a minimal expression. This proposal therefore deepens the privatization of training for the unemployed, transfers to the user and to the private sector the responsibility that the Public Administration has to set up a stable, quality training offer and meets the needs of the economic model. Of course, we show our concern for it. Mrs. Novoa, a member of the People's Party, said that they were very concerned about the formation of the unemployed, that it was her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u77	Where is this concern, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when the 2014 and 2016 annual education was skipped for employees and unemployed people? Where are the millions of euros going in these calls that the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u79	...—Finished, Mr. President—did he not perform, while he left thousands of Greek and Greek workers without that training? For that they seem to have no explanation, and if they have it to bring us a proposal that is a model of competitive competition, inexecutable right now, but that is a complete follow-up to the guidelines emanating from the Government of Madrid. Once again a Government that, instead of legislating its own regulations, what it does is complete follow-up to what they say in Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Minutes and forty-five more. So we're going out of schedule, if we go to one minute and forty-five more in each intervention. Please... Man, you see how this is, it's flexible, but I beg you to adapt a little to the schedule because, if not, it's impossible. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u81	Thank you, President. Good morning. First, before we talk about the initiative, we have to say that it seems surprising to us that he speaks of the past as the mayor of En Marea's spokesperson justly to the person who used to walk with drug traffickers in the past. We're very proud, I don't know if the other side will be equally. [[Applause]] And again, before talking about the training check itself, it's about going back to contradict the story that the People's Recovery Party makes, that everything's going better. They say they are very concerned about unemployment and precariousness, but then they use most of the time of all their interventions — and this whole was a good example of that — to advertise this good data and a good example of optimism, but the reality shows that these claims that everything goes better are false. And it is not that we say it just ourselves, but that most of the population no longer believes that this data, supposedly positive for all, will have a positive impact on their lives, because unfortunately, no matter how much they say the opposite and how much they talk about quality employment, reality is now marked and continues to be marked by social inequalities, social exclusion, poverty and precarious employment. So, as much as they say speeches, people who work day by day know perfectly how much they charge, how many hours they work and how many free days they have a year. The People's Party has a clear model, and one of the fundamental pillars of this model is based on the progressive privatization of the public. The proposal they bring today cannot be understood without all these policies that have been applying for years with the excuse of the crisis, and that, as I say, they are in line to give priority to privatization and to police the public. And as in many other cases, in this initiative too, they hide, hide, the privatization process with other arguments. In this case they choose to talk about the empowerment of individual freedom, which is not a new argument either, but we understand that when we talk about freedom there is a basic question: freedom of choice will have it if we start from similar conditions, and talk about freedom in a context like this, marked by the free market, is only a fallacy, and for the only thing it serves is to maintain the current power relationships, which from our point of view are deeply unfair. In the explanatory statement on this initiative, the spokesperson for the People's Group said that one of the key concerns from different administrations should be to promote the creation of employment as high a quality as possible. We agree, but we understand that these words do not correspond to the policies applied, because, as much as they now say all of this that they are concerned and that they want a higher quality job, we do not forget the job reforms, on the one hand, which were the ones that got us to have this model of employment that we have now, nor do we forget, as much as they talk about the concern about job formation, that the funds intended to improve qualifications, both busy and unemployed, were falling in the years in which the People's Party is in the Government; and not only in the budgets, but above all in the executions. But apart from all this, we don't agree with the model they present today from the cheque training on several issues. We understand that this model makes it difficult for strategic training planning to exist, and that the law of supply and demand cannot be established in this type of training because it pushes the short-term, volatility, and is currently being seen as most of the private providers of courses limit the supply to certain sectoral areas, which are, of course, curiously and obviously — if you do so in economic matters has all the meaning — the most favourable for their management and occupation. We understand that what we need is a planned model in the medium and long term and that it is not simply limited to economic revenue. On the other hand, the competitive competition model, we understand that it makes only a few entities have access to these trainings. As I said, leaving these collective criteria for a supposed improvement in individual freedom, but this means that collectives who are most vulnerable, such as girls, women, etc., are underrepresented. In addition to all this, there are proven examples that reaffirm our position in the rest of the European Union. I don't have time, but by making a concrete comment, for example in England, where this training model was put into practice in 2000, they know it lasted less than a year because a fraud worth some 95 million euros was discovered. And there are more examples. These cases are there to check. That is why we believe that this proposal does not satisfy us, and we shall vote against this initiative, not because we are against quality work, but rather quite the contrary; those who are against quality work and which boost precarious employment are you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group believes that changing in the training system is key for both employees and unemployed, hence the importance of the reforms introduced by the training check. This initiative introduces a fundamental aspect: the freedom of the unemployed to choose their training and where to pursue it, always supported by the mentors of those who have the Public Employment Service. Look, Mrs. Blanco, that you tell me about results, that they didn't get them electorally or when they ruled, it's amazing, it's amazing! So your proposal is that we continue with the current training system, which has produced a good result. [[Applause]] That's your proposal. Look, the amendment you presented your group doesn't talk about the training check, nothing! Say, say what they think about the training check is that they want to deprive the Greeks and the Greeks that they choose their own training. Tell him clearly. Anyway, here they show that they're against, but because most communities don't govern themselves, they're going to have to review their support because maybe there's another party that supports the training check, and maybe they have to go back. Yes, check it out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Anyway, I'll answer you about your amendment. As to what he says in his amendment on the implementation of a youth programme -- I said in my speech, but I repeat it -- the Government of the Union already has a key skills programme that includes a call for EUR 4 million, as well as annual assessment tests. Ladies and gentlemen, there is already the Women's Employment Plan, so women are a priority collective in training programmes. And, of course, we have the Employment Activation Strategy 2017-2020, which is currently being approved, and it was at the July 26 sectoral conference where the Socialist Party communities did not accept any of their agreements and blocked the delivery of additional funds for which Galicia would receive more than 10 million euros. Your Honor, it is irresponsible not to bring Parliament a training initiative. The truth is, the arguments used by the rest of the groups not to support this measure are not credible. Maybe they have others hidden around that they didn't want to expose here. Ladies and gentlemen, don't confuse yourself by saying that this is privatization. This is giving freedom of choice to the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG and of En Marea, the truth is that — you are fighting daily to lead the flag of freedom — we do not understand how people who are unemployed can deny freedom in order to choose their training. Look, ladies, they say we have opacity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u84	Silence, silence, silence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u85	But how opacity? If we bring the measure to plenary, this is no opacity. Mrs Quinteiro has appointed European countries where she has not succeeded, like England, but there are others where she has it, like Switzerland and Germany, and even the Basque Country, which they so advocate, has initiatives in training checks. I've already indicated in my exhibition that agreements with trade unions and business groups are the starting point for this initiative. The training of our employees and unemployed is a strategic factor in the competitiveness and productivity of our companies. From there the introduction of new measures, in order to give a great boost to training activities, with the introduction of the training check, which will provide freedom of choice for the unemployed; a commitment we have already made in our electoral programme and which will undoubtedly be launched to contribute to improving the quality of employment in our community, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in connection with the draft law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u87	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u88	Very good day again. And good day to the president of the Staff Board in the Salnés Health Area, who accompanies us in the rostrum. In 2010, the People's Party began its decommissioning roadmap of existing health areas with the implementation of integrated management organization structures, and this August, it presented, also through the back door, a modification of the draft law so as to amend the Galician Health Act of 2008. This change will cause further deterioration in public health, consolidates the line of cuts, prioritizes the economic criterion to the detriment of the needs of users and users and negatively affects the quality of care. This preliminary draft is a retrogression in the background and shape. First in shape. They did it at night, with alleviation, in the middle of August, with opacity, with no dialogue, no participation, neither with the sectoral table, nor with social groups, and with a deadline for the submission of very small claims. He lied to the president of the board in the morning when he said that this preliminary draft had been introduced to union representatives. When they were sitting at the sectoral table, they were already hanging out without any input or dialogue. At the same time they had hung him on the Council page. Of course, presenting it before is a way to miss the truth quite interesting. And as for the bottom, it's not a minor change, as it's trying to transfer the People's Party. It's not just a change of terminology, it's a very quiet change. It's a clock pump on Galician public health floating line. As well as the Health Insurance Act, adopted in 2013 alone by the People's Party, only with the votes of the People's Party, subject to the legalization of the derivation of patients to private health, and therefore also from public resources to private health, this amendment implies the legalization of the non-service provision of health care due to lack of resources. The text, the preliminary draft, that draft called Mr. Feijóo, makes it very clear. If the Portuguese Law of 2008 in force provides that the provision of services and the delimitation of areas will be "taken into account, in any event, the health needs of the population", in the preliminary draft states that it will be "taken into account existing health resources". Clearly, we are faced with a completely ideological change, on the line, obviously triggered by the People's Party. It is, from the point of view of BNG, an unacceptable amendment, since it does not prioritize the health needs of the Greeks and the Greeks, but will be based on the resources which the People's Party in Government decides to devote to public health. And as it is obvious, it decides that these resources are less and less. With this change, instead of bringing people to health care, it alienates them. It only pretends to be one more tool for services cut and personnel cut. They want this law to be legal to cut down services and personal crop. It means the concentration of decision-making and resource-making and the exclusion of population control. Another question. The People's Party presents this preliminary draft without having made any evaluation of what was the real result of the initiatives it put in place, of the creation of the EOXI. Now let's introduce this preliminary project, where it reduces and eliminates four areas -- it reduces from 11 to 7 areas -- and this will assume the reduction of services in areas that are eliminated and the loss of accessibility of the population in these areas. These new structures, created in 2010, led to the loss of the management of the county hospitals and the loss of primary care agencies. At that time, by mobilisations, the strong opposition of citizenship, of professionals, and also by institutional work, they failed to achieve what the People's Party initially thought and retreated in part. But with this set-up of the EOXI they achieved some of their goals: health in these areas with comarcal hospitals, such as the Barco, Monforte, Burela or Salnés was seriously compromised by this loss of resolutional capacity. The creation of EOXI has also negatively conditioned the development of primary care: the management has disappeared, it has lost autonomy in the development of its projects, and this has then been realized in the very drastic reduction of budgets for primary care, even above the average — very high — of the general Greek public health. And far from doing what needs primary care, which is the impulse to improve its quality as a true gateway to the system, what you've done is to leave it in a real emergency situation. With this amendment which the People's Party intends to approve, this situation is going to worsen further, so that the comarcal hospitals and primary care become mere appendices to large hospitals, with more than obvious loss of autonomy, services, decision-making and leadership capacity. It also suggests this preliminary draft — which I have no doubt that the People's Party will attempt to turn it into law as soon as possible — a very silent democratic involution. First of all, because it leaves very transcendental parts of the norm, of the law, for adoption by subsequent decree; that is, unilaterally by the board of Galicia. Of course, that's not much to practice democracy. Secondly, by drastically reducing citizen participation: eliminating the four health councils in the areas that disappear, reducing their competences, leaving only the decision of who makes them. If in the current law it is established in detail who is part of the health boards, which are their competences and how they will develop, it turns out that in this preliminary draft all this remains for further policy development. I mean, it's left to be the People's Party who decides how, who, where, and how. Therefore, an alarming cut in social participation mechanisms, which are completely numbed. The composition of the Galician Health Council, as well as of the health councils of areas, is no longer collected in the law, will be the Union that decides by decree. And it also leaves them virtually reduced to mere advisory elements; the ability to issue reports, the obligation to bring forward health proposals for their assessment and reporting, are fully laminated in this preliminary draft. Unfortunately, the People's Party, despite being contemplated in the law the creation and convening of these health councils, in two legislations did not carry them out. Obviously, I had no intention. The BNG asked for and brought initiatives to this Parliament on several occasions demanding both its constitution and its summons, so that they could say what they thought about all the health measures that the People's Party was implementing, but refused to do so. Now we see why. Because their goal was to make them disappear and only have a decorative function, great decorative function! They expel society from having anything to say about the deterioration of public health that the People's Party is doing. This change is in the opposite direction of a quality health model, close to the population, community, participatory, prevention-oriented. It is followed by the roadmap of the People's Party for the dismantling of public health in Galicia. Mr. Feijóo said in the morning that this was to raise the law which is already a reality. No! this is to raise the law the roadmap of the People's Party to numb public health and convert public health, an essential service, into business niche for friends, friendly companies, and what is worse, for multinationals to serve their own interests. That's the real goal: to convert and give the rank of law to that crowd party roadmap. So today the BNG brings here a non-law proposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u89	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u90	...where we demand that you go on a completely different path. First, that this preliminary draft law be withdrawn; that the health areas established in the Health Act of 2008 be maintained; that the agencies be returned to the comarcas hospitals and primary care and put in value of the comarcas hospitals; that the comarcas centres be provided with personnel, material and technology so that they can provide quality health care; that these agencies recover; that they put in place a plan to improve primary care; that health councils be maintained; that they be maintained, that they be established and that they be convened. That's the roadmap that, of course, a party that wanted to look after public health in Galicia should have, and not this draft law. Waiting for the favourable vote of political organizations, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Today we have a bit of debate on the preliminary draft reform of the health law. We now have this opportunity and we will have an interpellation that we then present to deepen the matter. We presented a GNP to the socialists in the same sense, so we will support this GNP of the Nationalist Block Galego. We basically believe, we share the fundamental essence, that it is necessary to remove the preliminary draft reform of the health law. And we do it from the conviction of defending public health from the most basic principles of our health model. I say this because I heard President Núñez Feijóo brag about being practically the People's Party who defended and almost implemented public health. It's worth reminding you, because sometimes memory is very selective — sometimes because you don't want to and sometimes because you don't know — that public health in Galicia is implanted because it existed or was being implanted in Spain. That public health in Spain was implemented by a law, which is the General Health Act of 1986. No one should be able to appropriate a law, basically the citizenship that supports it and the citizenship that defends it and that implements changes supporting those governments, like in 1986, which has transformed health into public health in this country. But every now and then the memory is very selective. You, Mr. PP, what they did with public health, with the General Law of 1986, which all over the world, except you, recognize as the great health tool of this country, and which, if you have a name, is Ernest Lluch, has voted against. I want you to remind him, to remind Mr. Feijóo, and that if any of you remember, you voted against the public health of this country. I'm telling you not to make speeches like Mr. Feijóo, that health is thanks to the PP. If anything works in the health of this country, it's thanks to the professionals and despite you. This preliminary draft brings with it several problems, basically two. We could have almost an extraordinary whole to debate it, but basically two: participation and health organization. And they resolve very easily: participation will be by decree and health organization will be by decree. They could subsume everything in a single sentence, bring even a PNL here -- since sometimes they do and sometimes they don't -- and say that health is going to be done by decree, that it's a model that you have, that I, from my democratic conviction, defend your right to express it, even if you don't share it at all, but I will fight. The socialists will fight this model of health by decree, because the health by decree — usually on the right — is health of what I want for whom I want, and for whom I don't want, we'll see. That's the health model of the People's Party. What's going to happen? I think it's important to go to legal change. For example, by taking an example: participation. Councilo Galego de Saúde. Article 23.4 of the Law of 2008. We're talking about the right to information, to which the Greek health councils, which have the participation of different organs, have the right to information on health planning and decisions. Right to information. It looks like a concept that we all share. What's going on in the pre-project? Disappear, no point 4. It doesn't change, it doesn't exist. So when you delete the right to information, when you delete from point 3 a single word: evaluation... Curious! It's not a Word mistake, they deliberately disappear. What's going to happen? They're going to cancel and hide decisions, they're going to cancel that participation. Services will be concentrated not because we are reflecting a reality; reality will be transformed according to the normative model. The EOXI changed the reality accordingly and now it wants to transform. It's like taking a ball off a kid or a girl and saying he doesn't play football because he doesn't like it. He doesn't play football because he doesn't have a ball! Because now we are forced to work healthly on large hospitals because this was the change from 2010 to 2011. Don't tell me they're now changing the norm to turn it into reality. You have transformed reality and now you want to justify that reality according to the norm. Let's see if we understand that standards transform reality, and they don't come to justify me that it's the other way around. Therefore, we believe that health concentration shows the loss of services. Look, you were talking about the example of Salnes, Mr. President. I'm from Vilagarcia, I have cardiology service one afternoon a week, a few weeks two, but my neighbors from Cambados, from my health area, have to go to another hospital. Why? Because there's no more than one day, sometimes two, a heart surgeon at the Salnés hospital. That's my service. There's no more psychiatry service, there used to be. But there is no power. How can you tell me they haven't lost services in a hospital when there's no manager? Why? Because nobody wants to be in front of the Salnés hospital because they know it's a set agency. Of course, you're telling me about an investment in the emergency zone, it's true, and you don't remind me that you've been five or six years promising a million euros. A member of the People's Party promised a million euros, a million euros! every year. You must have thought it was 5 million. No, it was the same every year because nothing was done. I would like to remind you that the Salnés Health Area has even been supported by a People's Party Member, contrary to the People's Party's criterion, who has joined the popular legislative initiative to ask for the health area. And you answered with the same gun they always have: they've moved away and they've turned away from politics. He was a Member, he was a candidate in Vilagarcía, and he withdrew from politics for defending the health area. That — which Mr Paz very much liked to talk about omerta — is the law of silence; he supported something that he did not like and he withdrew. Mr. Garrido was. You, who define Galicia with a Google maps, don't know how long it takes you to arrive from the Courel... when it takes you to arrive from Thursday to Lugo, when it takes you to arrive from the Mosque to Ourense. Two hours, the same time as coming from here to the port, and then back. He's going to have to do a lot of people for a lot of health services. And they say this is to bring the health service closer to citizenship!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we defend an agreed health service, that there is no first and second health care, that it is not easy for people, because they have no services, to go to private health, that there may be something about that. We ask for it here, we ask the citizens. Almost 12 noon, there are concentrations in hospitals, in health centers — if they defend public health they should know that — So let's ask everyone to remove the draft health law, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u95	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u96	Thank you, President. Our group, of course, will also support this non-law proposal, and indeed we will have occasion in the afternoon to hear what the health adviser says. It's clear that PP is again using the summer months to practice another cut in public health. It actually happened, as was said here four years ago, with the Health Insurance Act. I remember the summer of 2013, fighting and preparing proposals for opposition to this law. And we come back again, they come back again, as the snakes do, without making noise; but the snakes only lock their shoes, and the barefoot here are the users and users of public health and the sanitary areas of the neighborhoods. We don't know what problem the People's Party has with rural districts, why he has so much problem with rural areas, and he continues to withdraw health services and rights. Four sanitary areas, 4, no 1: The Boat, The Navy, Monforte and O Salnés. It's one more step — Mr. Feijóo's shifted that was normal — after he eliminated them already as management areas. And as much as Mr. Feijóo boasts, the results aren't good, the results aren't positive. As much as the Government insists that there are now more specialists in the centers, reality doesn't tell us that. Mr Feijóo, the President of the Government, transferred that it is now the specialists who voluntarily decide whether to provide services to the comarcas hospitals. Come on! It's absolutely incredible! I mean, it's the specialists who decide services, but it's the services that don't have specialists, or what's the same, the government doesn't do and doesn't let it do and doesn't manage the health services that citizens put in their hands. Leave and transfer responsibility to professionals. It's absolutely incredible! The reality is that in these four areas there has been a loss of research activity, which has disappeared from training, that the management services of the centres themselves, maintenance, computer science works worse, that increased bureaucracy, which depend on the large hospitals, which have been lost services of neurology, radiology, laboratory, cardiology, at each center different services. And what's worse is, loss of management also made mellow, of course, in primary care, which had previously lost primary care agencies. That the PP condemns the abandonment of primary care is always, and we see it in budgetary debates. It's the worst part of the government's cuts. Less and less resources, less management capacity and impossible to investigate, which, yes, is also relevant in primary care. That's right, with no participation whatsoever, because, as already said, the preliminary draft was published when the Government was sitting with the unions and not before, there was no time to review it, not for a few hours. There must be no lack of a government president like he does. Thus, by delivering at the same time as the preliminary draft, it is frankly irresponsible to remove health areas. When the EOXI were concentrated, the People's Party has already lied to us, justified it in reducing high office charges. And what does the Board of Auditors say? The Board of Auditors says that between 2012 and 2015, spending on senior positions in the Galician Health Service increased by 9.1%. It was all a lie! They used a fallacy to reduce precisely those agencies, and now they use another fallacy saying they're going to provide better services and better management, eliminating health areas. It didn't work, People's Party gentlemen, with the administrations, it didn't work either in Madrid and it won't work now. Besides, as you've already moved here, it's a preliminary project that also cuts citizen participation. The People's Party doesn't like participation, it doesn't like citizens to think, it didn't like it when in the past legislation we proposed to amend the regulation so that citizens would come to the House, it didn't like it when in this legislation we proposed that the Government come to take account of the initiatives that are being approved here, and now they also cut off the Galician Health Council. They delete — because it is going by decree — apparently the presence of citizens, the ability to access information, but, yes, they obviously introduce the representation of economic interests. Yes, of course, companies always have to be moving their needs into the design of health policy. In short — and I am finished — with the People's Party, more Feijóo, less participatory democracy and less health rights. We also beg you — and we will do so in the afternoon — to withdraw this preliminary draft. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torado, you speak of ominousness and reprisals. I think you should ask the former Members and Members of your group in the past legislation what happened in Madrid with your party after primarys. Ask, that probably of ominousness and reprisals know a lot more than you do. Well, it is surprising in the People's Group that the opposition and the unions welcomed the presentation of a draft draft draft which did not even go to the Council of the Union, the lack of reports and the offer of double the claim period of what marks the Transparency Act. It seems that this will see the usual snakes — fires, collapses, bed closures — were good and Galicia's problems ceased to be unemployment, economic situation or poverty. This summer's problems in Galicia were the change of law and the palace of Meirás. You're talking about scurantism. In August, indeed, there are holidays, there are holidays in July, there are holidays in September, there are holidays in Christmas, there are holidays in Holy Week. I don't know if they want the Transparency Portal to close in half the year and open the other half. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party, ruling with an absolute majority in the VI legislation, with a popular support of 52%, passed a law, which was Losga, in 2003. You in the following legislation have repealed the law, approving the Health Act of 2008. This law was rejected by the People's Party; it presented amends to the whole, it presented numerous partial amendments, and it did not support the law. Now, our party recovers power in 2009 and does not waste its law, it maintains almost ten years, and now intends to modify it to adjust it to the real situation of Greek health and to the legislative changes that have occurred in these years. You deny the legitimacy of this government and this parliamentary group to amend that law. In 2008, the People's Party tabled an amendment which was rejected, urging territorial division, as now appears in the new draft. They said their voices in that debate that Losga, the People's Party Act, transmitted to the citizen that the public health system was not sustainable, and given the situation of the Greek economy and public health that they left it seems that the People's Party was not too wrong. Unless it's for the efficiency and sustainability measures taken by the governments of Feijóo — of course, in no case supported by you — I don't know what health situation we'd be in right now. You described your law as "light and beautiful", forgetting the situation of the Greek public health in those years. There were strikes, professional demobilization, waiting lists, more concerts with private centers than at the moment, even problems with the provision of blood. Nothing, compared to the economic situation that they have left and which has worsened with the crisis of later years. When the spokesperson from that People's Party reported this situation, you replied, "Always the same as you have, that all you want is to alarm, and it is obsessively to go against the Counsellor and this advisor. "That doesn't seem lawful or rigorous." In these years I've been a member of the German Parliament. I've seen and heard what you told the Greek people from this rostrum or on the street itself. They said and told the citizens at one point that the EOXI decree would leave the Galician comarcas without their hospitals, that it didn't happen; they said that they would be charged for assistance services, consultations, income, and it wasn't true; they told them that the Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital was private, small and that they would have to pay even for the use of arm chairs in the rooms, and it turned out false. That initial demonstration of Vigo, certainly crowds, was the year after that of a group of friends, with a minimal participation as to when people met or used the new hospital. And the big attendance at the 2010 Salnès and Monforte demonstrations is what makes you doubt now to reconvene these demonstrations, because I think they think that participation is not going to look like anything that happened then. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They no longer have credibility among the neighbors and neighbours of these localities, and you know it. In the concentrations these days in front of the comarcas hospitals, which according to the press photos did not appear to be very numerous, there were almost more familiar faces in this Parliament than theoretically affected citizens. By reading the draft text, I'd like to know where you find references to cuts, privatization or the decrease in hospital services. I suppose in privatization you'll refer to the creation of the Public Knowledge Agency, ACIS, public agency, just like Fairy. In his law, you created, or regularized, the creation of the Galego Institute of Health Research, which in no case said in the law whether it was public or private. In short, ladies and gentlemen, from this group we support the amendment of the Health Act. We can — and we are sure that it will — incorporate allegations from those presented this past month. We believe that the opposition groups want to steal the parliamentary debate, the debate in motion, in committee and in plenary. There have already been meetings with political authorities, schools and associations. We affirm that this law is beneficial for citizens and that people are placed at the center of the system, in front of other service, professional, political or trade union interests. The existence of comarcal hospitals is linked to the creation of districts associated with these infrastructures, and legal coverage is given to the displacement of specialists among hospitals. Of course, we're not talking here about Verín, Cee and Ribeira, who are going to have their own district, and you won't show up in those villages. There is also no mention of other benefits for society which contemplates the modification, such as the recognition by law of the Advisory Council for Patients, the creation of the Interdepartmental Commission on Education and Health, professional itineraries or the recognition of the health authority of public health inspectors. That's why we're not going to support his initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u99	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u100	The People's Party, as usual, thanks to the speakers at its disposal, intends to impose a fraudulent report, takes it on legislated health issues after legislation; a fraudulent debate where the maximum is that this will be yellow and that all the actions carried out by this preliminary draft are only to improve the situation. But the reality is, this is not the case. The first false account is that the patient will be the great beneficiary. You sold Mr. Fexóo in the morning and just did it with a change there the People's Party Member, Mr. Núñez Centeno, that this will be better for the sick because it will allow the shift of the professionals. Mr. Fexóo said "voluntarily." He's taken care of accentuating the subject of voluntary, and you've just spoken of "give him legal coverage." If it's voluntary, I don't know if those two things are compatible. And why do they pretend to do so voluntarily? because, if you are willing, why is it not possible now without any change? What prevents these specialists from voluntarily going to a hospital or other if it's a matter of volunteering? First lack of truth. And the point is, they're going to "voluntarily" because it's not going to be those professionals you're trying to sell the kindness of this pre-project to get up in guns. Because you can voluntarily also translate or read as mandatory mobility, right, Mr. Centeno Nuñez? So you're playing there at the end of the knife with these questions. And it's not true that story that they want to impose that there's going to be more and better health services in comarcal hospitals, that story that you're trying to hide behind there, a piece of issues that they have in the comarcal hospitals, but the reality is that this is not compatible with today's reality. I belong to the Health Area of Salnés and I have replaced the previous spokesperson in health, current president of this Parliament, who, if there were no problems of any kind of discrimination or difference between being enrolled in a health area with a comarcal hospital, such as that of Salnés, or being enrolled in a health area with a large hospital, who does the exercise of moving to these health areas and receiving the provision in those health areas to see if he stays so calm. So, specifically, as an example, Salnés' Health Area: cardiology, displacement for a few hours a week by a cardiologist just to meet the population of Vilagarcia and Vilanova; the rest of the population of Cambados, Catóira, Meaño and so on is not cared for by a cardiologist. Loss of neuro-diatrics. There was a professional, he lost. Neurology, too, three days a week only for patients...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u102	...of Vilagarcia and Vilanova. I could give you a detailed list of all the services that were lost at the Salnés Hospital. With which, you systematically lie to try to impose your story. The reality is that every time there is a perception of the Greek population of worse public health. They demand public health in conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u104	...and much better, and the reality is that this preliminary bill of law that you're going to turn into a project as soon as you want to do it is to sink into your roadmap, which is to put public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u106	...to the service of private health. And to the facts I refer from the last private health meeting, where Nuñez Faixóo was present, I suppose to tell you there's no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union before the Ministry of Justice to improve the judicial organization
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u108	This motion for a non-law was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres; of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Vilán Lorenzo, and of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u109	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting an initiative in order to promote an essential and fundamental public service as is the Administration of Justice; a service we also see as the Government of Galicia has not only concerns, but also occupations, because every year we see an increase in the budget of the Union for the provision of material, personal and technological resources of the Administration of Justice, which are the competences of the Union of Galicia. We see how important investments were made in new technologies, providing videoconferencing systems for all Galicians and double viewer systems, which are also being implemented to facilitate the implementation of the new judicial office. We also see how some legal infrastructure is being reformed and how new legal infrastructures have been created in the midst of economic crisis. As examples we have the new judicial buildings in Santiago, Ourense, the reforms of the judges of Ferrol, Monforte Street, Coruña, the remodeling of the Arms Factory or the judicial infrastructures of Pontevedra and Vigo. In addition to implementing new technologies and remodeling and making new judicial infrastructures, it is important to equip them with judicial units, with magistrates and magistrates, but this competitive framework does not correspond to the Council of Galicia, but it corresponds to the Central Government. And there the creation of new judges is subject to a proper budget and an budget that covers them in the state. That's why it is important that we have budget in the state, that last year there was no budget, and despite being out of the crisis and that Galicia could possibly have some legal unit anymore, it was not possible because it was not supported by the State budget. Well, depending on the number of units that are taken into account in these budgets, the Ministry of Justice informs the autonomous communities of the territorial distribution of these new units on the basis of objective criteria, such as the number of matters they have, the entry into the functioning judicial bodies and the working-load modules approved by the General Council of the Judiciary so that autonomous communities are willing to take up the functioning of the new judicial offices that grant them the Ministry of Justice, because, as you well know, the personal, material and technological means that lead to the creation of new trials correspond to the Autonomous Community, in this case, to the Council of Galicia. Well, on every occasion that the Central Government has created new judicial units, the Government of the United States has expressed its willingness to face the cost of launching new judicial units, any number of new judicial units assigned to Galicia. And so it happened in 2010, in the middle of the economic crisis, which was the last year in which new judicial units were created. Galicia had requested 11 and they were granted those 11, but there were autonomous communities that refused the judicial units that were granted them. Why? Because they weren't able to cope with the costs these new judicial units brought to the Autonomous Community. And Galicia, who was managing well, had resources to be able to deal with these new judicial units. And in addition to the 11 that the Ministry gave him, he assumed 2 more, because they gave up other autonomous communities, and that made it possible for us to have a new social trial, the number 4 of Pontevedra, and the Court of Justice 13 of the Coruña. They were judicial units that were created because they gave up other communities and Galicia if they were able to do so. Well, today we ask the central government to tell us how many judicial units will give us. The judicial units, as you know, are consensual to the Joint Committee, which is formed by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Council of Galicia, and the High Court of Justice uses objective criteria of workload that the magistrates and others ask for; but the Board, in addition to these criteria, also provides the needs of the councils. The mayors also ask the Galician Council to set up this judicial unit. We therefore believe it is important that the units in the Joint Committee continue to be consensual and that not only the units proposed by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia are requested, because in any case they are less than those requested when agreed between the Government and the High Court of Justice. Since the end of 2009, the Government of Galician Judiciary has driven the creation of 20 new judges, which corresponded to the practice of all the bodies of necessary creation which the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia had in its memory, and then some were not created because they disappeared from that memory, because with the amendment of the Criminal Judgment Act of 2015, removing almost 30% of the cases from the courts for having unknown authorship, there were judicial units that were intended to create that were not created because there was no such need. By this year 2017 the Ministry has set at 4 the number of newly created judges assigned to Galicia. After consensus with the High Court of Justice, priority was given to the cities of Coruña, Ourense, Vigo and Ferrol. The Vice-President of the Council has already stated that it is not enough, that Galicia needs more judicial units, and we agree with the Government of the Council of Galicia that we need more judicial needs, so the People's Parliamentary Group will support the request of these new judicial units, which are more than the Ministry gives us. That's why we want the sooner you tell us what you're assigned to us for 2018, that's a goal of our initiative, and in addition that the Board once again assumes this commitment to support and economically equip all those units, and in addition, if they give us any more, too. We believe that in 2018, although we know that the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia speaks of eight judicial units — and some of the amendments tabled by the groups go on that line — that must be a minimum proposal; that is, we cannot ask only eight, we have to ask for what we need, and we probably need more than those eight. We are aware that the Union is working, is trying to do actions that lead to these new judicial units, and we believe it is important that from the Galician Parliament we can send a message to the central unity government of all groups saying that we support those demands of the United Nations and that all Parliament, all political groups, all political forces, agree on that need. So, ladies and gentlemen, as far as your amendments are concerned, I made them easier, I made them come up with a compromise proposal, because I believe that, in addition to the judicial units, there are contributions in the area of new LexNET technologies — which is failing and so on — that are interesting and that I think we can reach an agreement on justice. It's a fundamental and essential public service, and if today we succeed among all groups in bringing forward a unanimous agreement on justice, I think it's a very important message in order to get those judicial units that we need, but also other issues about the implementation of the new judicial office with the new technologies and, above all, that these systems work, as is the case with LexNET. I expect your consideration and next shift we will talk about the amendments and the proposed transaction. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u112	Good morning. This motion could say it's a motion of self-criticism, and it doesn't come wrong from time to time the self-criticism even in the People's Party; it pleases itself. It's a self-critical motion because it puts precisely the focus on the shortcomings of the Administration of Justice, which leads to the fact that it has a certainly negative image of slowness, of excessive bureaucracy, of remoteness from society, that it increases, in addition, everything related to the problems that are happening with the implementation of digital administration in justice or the problems that there are also in equipment, space problems, etc. The BNG, of course, defends that Galicia has political power to organize the Administration of Justice according to its interests, without having to ask permission from Madrid; that's what we propose. However, as this situation is not yet done, we will certainly support the demand for all the judges, all the means, that all the measures are taken to change that image, that description that we have made of the image that has justice right now in our country. And of course, as the spokesperson for the People's Party, the same vice president of the board has already made an explicit acknowledgement that these new judges, those new judicial units that have been announced, are clearly insufficient because, besides -- he said so too -- we have not created any new trial in Galicia for seven years. The reality is that the proposal made by the People's Party in its non-law proposition is that it's scarce or shallow. You're talking about how soon before the Ministry of Justice informs us of the number of judges who correspond to Galicia. We don't want them to communicate with us; we want, in any case, to sue, to complain, to propose, to demand what is fair, what the country needs, to have a more agile and effective justice, and then to put the necessary means. Even so, we have to admit, Mrs. Prado, as one of my comrades said, that the brave one does not take it off. We recognize the will of consensus, the effort being made to reach an agreement on this issue and hope that it will. However, we are going to have an impact on and insist on the proposals we make in our amendments and, indeed, we are talking about starting at least the proposal made by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, but we do not share exactly the proposal of its transaction in the sense that it is the agreed proposal between the Council of Galicia and the High Court of Justice, because from here the parliamentary groups are making other proposals which I believe should be taken into account. In any case, it seems to us as a proposal for a valid minimums to which the High Court of Justice has made, and we, moreover, insist on other demands that seem reasonable and fair, such as the new Social Court in Lugo, a judge who has a huge workload that leads, for example, to a delay of two years in unemployment benefit records, which we find, of course, inconceivable. In addition, in this case it was the subject of a unanimous agreement by the Commission in January 1st. So it seems logical to us that we also defend this, or, of course, the increase in judges of gender-based violence, which has to be part of that powerful response that has to give the General Administration and the Administration of Justice on this issue to fight with all means against this very serious problem. And there we also have to overcome the excessively strict criteria as to the ratios in order to be able to implement these new judgments. We also believe that it is necessary for economic means to be able to solve vacation or low replacements. Here, budgetary changes are made for everything that interests, but, curiously, for this matter, they are not done. To increase military spending there are billions. For we want budgetary changes to be made in order to put more means to the Administration of Justice, so that things like the ones that happened — grave — in August in the Coruña, when, for example, the fall of the judge specialized in the fight against gender violence, against macho violence, are not covered. Our Mrs. Noa Presas has already said: Machism does not take vacations. Neither can the Administration of Justice take vacations on this subject, and it is not worth accumulating these tasks to other judges who do not have the necessary expertise for these issues either. And finally, we also make an amendment about the need to put the necessary means to improve everything that has to do with the digital administration in the field of justice. In this sense, we propose that an independent and external audit be done to analyze all the errors that are occurring on the digital platforms, in case of LexNET, which has been up to date this summer, and also in case of the Minerva platform.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u114	And in general, so that they can all be able to have effective justice, agile justice, a justice, in the end, fair justice. We hope that there will therefore be that agreement and that we will be able to adopt this proposal with all the approaches made by the opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u116	Thank you, President. Good morning. I'm going to start my speech quoting a few words from a fellow PSC from Miquel Iceta, because as we are on the path of consensus in justice and Iceta the last time he came to Pontevedra he said, "I'm one of those who enters a room and I'm already agreeing." """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" We've been talking about personnel, replacements, archives, disposal, LexNET, audits, digital platforms... last week, just five days ago, we're asking for an external audit just to control the LexNET system and you were voting against it, and today, of course, they have the consensus to be able to vote in favour. Welcome to the consensus, which is good enough for us. Not those we're here, not the parliamentary groups, but all the professionals of justice, who need it. Anyway, speaking on his initiative that the Greek Government has bet on justice despite budgetary difficulties, which the professionals of justice say, is an insult to themselves. You have just recognized that in the last seven years no new place has been created for any judicial body in Galicia, and so has the Vice-President of the Board himself. By the way, I didn't hear him say until a few days ago, and apparently between 2010 and December 2015 there was no need for new judicial bodies. Unfortunately, the new reform of the Law on Criminal Judgment came!, which, by the way, came into force in December 2015. I mean, for six years nothing was created, but apparently it wasn't necessary because there was barely a year left until today. Since the reform of the Criminal Corrections Act, criminal matters have been dropped, and then, of course, no more judicial organs were needed. Well, if you need it. I don't care if you need to bring here a non-law proposition because the justice professionals are demanding it from you. It's necessary to boost legal infrastructure because you have a plan from 2010 to 2015 that you didn't meet, only Ourense and La Coruña, and we're already at the end of 2017. Therefore, it cannot be advanced in the judicial infrastructures because zero plus zero at the moment is still zero. Moving forward in the axillization and electronic administration when LexNET fell on July 27, and was hacked up to four times, you can take a paper, but it's hard to defend it here. Let us be told by the Ministry of Justice how many judges Galicia has before, without asking for the creation of specific and necessary judicial units, it is complicated. Because you say "those who correspond to you" -- those who correspond to us, therefore, -- the Ministry of Justice said 4, and the High Court asked for 8. Therefore, you will have to specify which ones are necessary. And you, of course, also bet on the reinforcement of the judicial bodies in the courts in need of support. That says your proposal is not law as a goal. But it's just that the Ministry of Justice is not willing to give a penny more to cover the replacements in the Galician courts because, by the way, it's already exhausted in June this year. That is, if there is a judge... there are many, almost 64% of small judicial bodies in Galicia — which are the judges who may be pregnant — are covered by women. If there are 64% of those judges who get pregnant between June and December and ask for a discharge, no one will cover their replacements because the Ministry of Justice has decided they won't be replaced because they won't be given a euro. That means they won't be able to get pregnant, or those judges will be left — like the man-in-law violence of the Crown — without its holder. The truth is that the budgeting of current spending for the Justice Administration for this year is about EUR 104 million, only EUR 12 million more than that judicial infrastructure plan between 2010 and 2015. That's reality, that's reality. We need new judicial bodies at least in Chamber 1 of the High Court of Justice; first instance judges in Ourense, in Coruña, in Vilagarcia; first instance and instruction in Ribeira; social in Coruña, in Vigo, in Santiago. In Santiago they're waiting an average of three years to go to trial in social courts. And we're not talking about anything, we're talking about people's employment and everything that has to do with their work relationships.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u118	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. A family trial in Vigo, of the merchantry in Ourense and magistrates in provincial hearings. I'm thinking about the Vigo section of Pontevedra's provincial audience, which is jammed precisely because you don't have a magistrate who can help his colleagues. This is the real world. We have tabled an amendment, we hope it will be accepted. We hope that all the groups that we are here will accept that compromise proposal that you have made to us, so we will indeed have a justice of the 21st century, which is what you ask in your non-law proposition, and not a justice of the middle age, which we already know the ideology that I had and the ends that I had. But we also ask from here — and I end already — that every time the opposition groups take an initiative, a non-law proposal, to Commission 1st, be you, Mrs Prado — who seems to have more desire for consensus than others of his colleagues — to which he defends the initiatives of Justice — Mrs Barreiro herself — and who vote in favour of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En tide, Mr Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are also surprised here by this desire for consensus in the space of justice, which we also celebrate. Despite not being completely satisfied, we will support it because it seems to us a step forward. And we are pleased that the People's Party is also seeking this progress in matters of justice. There are three specific sectors to which we would like to refer, both to present this amendment and to support the resulting text. First, the fight against corruption in our country. Two hundred cases are opened every year in Galicia in the matter of corruption, which are not closed, among other things, by the dyslates you have or those that give rise to a administration of slow justice, which implies, of course, that the zozobra of citizenship, seeing that people who are being investigated for misappropriating funds that are all, or pre-trially, do not end up with a prompt judgment. They guess who almost belongs to 90% of these cases. Yes, of course, to the People's Party. That's why we denounce so many times that justice is the poor sister of all administrations that make up the institutional entity. Secondly, as regards the reference to the High Court of Justice, the High Court — as already stated here — proposes a minimum of 8 judicial units. It specifically proposes 8 judicial units in front of the 4 that the ministry offers. They say you treat that as a minimum proposal. Well, if it's not minimal, they propose an additional number and make it concrete. We did it throughout the past course and we were continually rejected. If you think there are specific needs in specific organs, we could realize them as well. We, among other things, made the 3 units proposal last year for the creation of 3 social judges to whom you refused. This year, by the implied way of assuming the request of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia made at the moment, they would assume those three. We rejoice at this change of position, because we believe that workers and workers who are being punished by labor reforms also have the right to see their rights met in the courts and courts of our country. What happens to substitutes and substitutes is a real scandal, but it's a structural scandal. And it is structural because it is caused by a reform of the organic law of the judicial power that carried out Gallardón in the past legislation, which I assumed, among other things, the precariousness of the administration of justice to the point where the money previously intended for substitute or substitute judges was said to be covered by adjudicated judges or reinforcement judges, those who were known in some cases such as Jat or Jajat, which was almost onnomatopey of laughter, because it was the laughter of the situation of weakness in which they were performing the judicial function, and this led to the fact that during this year we had met in those cases of corruption of the People's Party as certain charges were trying to touch those judges who were in a particularly precarious position to separate them from the cases that were uncomfortable for the investigation of corruption of the People's Party. So everything is related, and now there's a side effect, and that reform is done to prevent the investigation of the corruption of the People's Party from affecting us in all the judgments in Galicia because there's no money for the substitute judges, it's over by the middle of the year. There have been specific cases here, of which in Marea will also ask a specific question regarding the judges of gender-based violence. Judged, by the way, without material means and without personal means. There's been a lot of talk these days about electronic administration, and that's all right. We're glad they're on their way to the external audit. But, of course, the finding that all legal operators had previously made that it was a sham to implement the LexNET system in the conditions under which it was made is now a firm observation. We are therefore prepared to support this proposal by the People's Party on these conditions, and we are also ready — as I have said before — to debate on justice, debate on democracy and the legal system with Faijóo or with whom you are proposing this. But it seems to us that the formula of posing things in the People's Party is always like it was done this morning, when there's no replica turn; that is, without wanting to hear a reply. Well, I end up with three questions and a reflection. The first question also answering Mr. Feijóo's suggestion. Since Spain is a social and democratic state of law, the question is whether it is considered social to be cut in health and education and to deliver 40,000 million euros to the bank, free of charge, which will not recover the citizenship of this country. If it's a democratic state, the question is whether it's democratic to separate judges and prosecutors who investigate your corrupt party. And if this is a democratic state, the question is whether it is democratic to win elections by illegally financing. And finished with a reflection. I will not defend any personal position, but rather an institutional position in relation to whom it cannot defend itself in this House. The High Court of Justice, like any other court — and that Mrs. Prado should know and Mr. Feijóo should know too —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u122	...—yes— they are collected organs, which means they are formed at least by three magistrates and magistrates. Injuries here in parliamentary office about judicial proceedings and judgments in court do not affect a magistrate, they affect the whole school; that is, three, five or more magistrates. The question is, what kind of president do we have to be able to expose a conspiracy that affects the entire Supreme Court of Justice? This can only come from ignorance, recklessness or the prepotency of those who have the most airs of drug dealership than from President of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor, for the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, starting at the end, we can hardly talk to you about justice and democracy when you don't respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. As long as you don't respect the greatest emblem we have in this country, which is our Constitution, we can't sit with you talking about democracy, because that's the first kind of democracy: respect for the Constitution. Or what you do constantly in this rostrum, which is to make false accusations without any legal support. [[Applause]] You're here trying to dictate judgments every day, and that's what the courts of justice are for. And you know what's going on, Mr. Villares? What Mr. President wanted to tell you this morning is that you, when you return to the Magistrate, if you return, will hardly be able to have any partner who wants to form a room with you. And you know what's gonna happen? That, in addition to that, you will constantly refuse it, because seeing that the judge will administer justice when he does not believe in the Constitution and when he questions the decisions of the Constitutional Court. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality, Mr. Villares. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And when you talk about corruption, in this Parliament we approve five laws to combat corruption: the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, the Law on Transparency, the Law on the Board of Auditors, the Law on Political Participation and the Law on Legal Assistance of High Commissioners. What have you voted for, Mr. Villares? Didn't that sound like an advance? You may not like it, but it's progress to fight corruption, and you didn't vote for those laws. You weren't on the side of those who are going against corruption because you like to come here and have the corruption speech, because you think that's why they make vows. But they're very wrong, votes are won by solving people's problems, and you don't have policies to solve people's problems. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to talk about what brings us here today, which is the proposal to promote and improve justice. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I've transferred them a transaction because you've tabled amendments. Mr. Bará said he was self-critical. We're clear that sometimes we're self-criticizing. If we don't do self-criticism, we do auto-bomb, don't we, Mr. Bará? Well, today plays self-criticism. You should also take note, do something self-criticizing and tell Mrs. Noa Presas that you can't sow the doubt and say that a trial of gender-based violence is closed in summer when it's false. The Court of General Violence of Coruña hasn't closed, and moving them to women victims of gender-based violence who don't have a judge who helps them at such a dramatic moment as gender-based violence is irresponsibility. (Applause. Just as we are in this Parliament approving protocols every day for institutions and for the media when it comes to gender-based violence, it seems to me that what I am seeing lately is that we are going to have to adopt a protocol for irresponsible policy statements on gender-based violence. It's irresponsible. [[Murmurs.]] And so are you. And all those who move that image that there are no resources and that women who are victims of gender-based violence are irresponsible. Mrs Vilan, consensus is a two-way matter, and you, in Commission 1 last Friday, I remind you that you said you wouldn't accept amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u125	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u126	...because the initiative was yours, and it didn't even transfer the possibility of trading. So let the consensus story be applied, because you in Commission 1 are constantly torpedoing consensus on initiatives. You and your comrades, who well know who I'm talking about, who's next to you. So you say there was a need for judicial bodies in 2010. Of course, 2010, 2011, 2012... but do you know who was the first to block the creation of judicial organs? The Government of the Socialist Party presided over by Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero in 2010. So we don't say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u128	...that no judicial organs are needed. Galicia has always claimed the judicial organs that were needed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u130	...the other thing is, because of the crisis, no judicial units were created. But now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u132	If I may, I would transfer a compromise proposal to all groups, because its amendments... I believe that the amendment of En Marea is fully collected, the only thing I would appreciate is that in point 1 I speak of the judges who agree, because we believe it is the Joint Commission that has to decide it. The concrete Socialist Party has been tried. We believe that we have to talk about minimums of those that are consensual, because with your proposal you are excluding some judge, as is the case with Ribeira. So I think that realising the judges is not good, because we can leave some out, and in this case -- I insist -- it already leaves the Ribeira one out. And the Galego Nationalist Block is fully collected, the only thing we don't know is a trial, as Mr Bará says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u133	Let us get into the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u134	And the one about the authorization of credits for the next year, either, because it's illegal. So I hope you support this transaction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u135	Thank you, let us get into the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u136	...and we can reach a consensus on justice. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u137	Thank you. Yeah, what do you want the word for? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It was actually alluded to in the time I was. You've got a shift, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u138	Well, quoting the illustrious advisor of Economics and Employment, who sent my companion Montse Prado to watch the video sessions, I should look at this video or look at BNG's public interventions better, because I didn't say that the trial of macho violence was closed, nor did Mr Bará quote that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Mrs. Prado, since it follows both our public statements, to see that some proposals are taken into consideration instead of living permanently in a dialectic sheet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Applause]] We now proceed to the cumulative debate of the following non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in connection with the situation of the Peace of Meirás, the Franco Foundation and the development of a Greek law of historical memory G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and 13 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union with regard to the agreement of the Sada Council in relation to the management of the BIC-Pazo de Meirás
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u140	An amendment has been tabled to both proposals by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u141	To formulate the non-law proposition has the word, first, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u142	Very good day again. I want to begin by expressing BNG's recognition to historical memory institutions and to all the people who have been claiming the return of the Peace of Meirás, manifesting and defending this idea by all means. I know there are other groups that say they're going to put forward proposals in forthcoming plenary sessions on this subject, and I want to tell them not to worry, the BNG has already done so, also in Marea in August, and they're going to have a chance to stand here, in this plenary today; there's no need to wait for a next plenary session. I'm going to start my speech by reading them a couple of dates. "Spain will never forget who as a soldier and a statesman has devoted all his existence to his service. For me, Francisco Franco is a living example of his daily patriotic dedication to the service of Spain; I have great affection and admiration." These words were not spoken by the spokesperson of the Franco Foundation, pronounced by Juan Carlos de Borbón in his possession as head of the State on November 22, 1975. And of course, this also has to do with the vices of origin, with the vices of origin of this 1978 regime, which also has them. And phrases like those of the present king emeritus explain a lot of things. We can also say that: those pos, these scissors; or more than these scissors, this true black pit of democracy that is Meirás. The debate on Meirás and the Franco Foundation is a debate full of symbolism. It's not only a legal debate, a technical debate or a heritage debate, it's a fundamental debate about democracy and franchise 42 years later. Yes, this is the unfortunate thing that we have to come here 42 years later to dig up those monsters, these ghosts and these black wells of democracy. In any case, we have, but it has the People's Party especially — I was told to you — an opportunity to start burying frankism, to send it to the garbage dump in history, which is where it has to be, where it had been a long time ago. We have an opportunity to throw them out of Galicia, to throw out of Galicia franchise, the Franco family, the foundation and all their accomplices, because they're busy with Meirades. The occupations are usurpers, they are thieves, they are heirs and propagandaists of terror. I'm an offense to our collective dignity, to the memory of the victims, and that's why we don't want them here, they're not grateful in Galicia. The Franco family and the Franco Foundation are not grateful in Galicia. We are, ultimately, faced with a great opportunity to do justice, the justice that was not done in the 1978 regime, in the so-called transition, so little modely. The transaction, the pact with franchiseeism, which in practice subjected the legalization and legitimization of crimes, the theft, the spole, the extortion, the corruption on a large scale. And what a good school they had, in this case, who came after! I also assumed this transition to award prizes and privileges to the dictator's family, again awarded by his heir Bourbon, which on November 26, 1975 granted Carmen Polo the noble title of the Lord of Meirás; another shame the family still enjoys. And November 26th also gives the dictator's daughter the Duchy of Franco; another outrage the family still enjoys. And we have already announced here that we will request the withdrawal of these medieval privileges from those who enjoy the Franco Family. This debate must serve to raise the record of accusations and denunciations of all the complicities and convolences that have been woven over more than forty years with frankism and with the Franco family, especially on the one hand - we must say so - of the People's Party governments; a party that also has its vices of origin. He has that heavy bag of his foundation as a People's Alliance and the screams that were uttered in that act. That is why the need and the opportunity for the proposals we have brought to this plenary, which have to be used to shed light and to remove all the masks, to speak clearly, consistently on this subject. They are measures that are part of the response of the Greek people to provocation — it has given way — chulesca and macara of the Foundation, of the Franco family and of all their accomplices. But they're much more than that, they're an exercise of democratic decency and collective dignity. First, democratic decency and collective dignity to put an end to the police, the theft, the robbery, the continued extortion by Franco and the frankness of public goods, and the Peace of Meirás is the main symbol of that theft, not the only one. And we said it was clear, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it was a robbery, it wasn't an offering; it was a robbery and a policeman. But there were many others, already mentioned here: the Cornide House, the sculptures of the Portico da Gloria, the Baptismal Pia of the Moraime monastery and a long et cetera. [[Applause]] A robbery perpetrated under coercion and extortion; an extortion led by the so-called "Junta pro pazo" which led to a supposed popular cost, which was, by the way, a failure and forced to seize public funds from the Town Councils and the Deputy of the Crown to fund that policy and that theft that took place after—because this was a policeman and a continued robbery; it was not in 1938, it was throughout the dictatorship and then also, after that—to divert large amounts of public funds to benefit Franco and his family. This is a gigantic example of corruption that has happened all along this time. Not only in the case of the property of the palace, but also of the surrounding lands, which were stripped by coercion, taking families in military vehicles to declare and deliver their lands, properties, and also the use of public money to do works of improvement of that property to benefit the family. So there is nothing to study, this is more than studied by numerous historians and historians, and next to it is going to present a book, edited by the Galician Foundation Always and written by Carlos Babío and Manuel Fernández, where it explains in detail how this whole process of espolio and extortion was. So you don't have to study the policy, you have to study the legal form of the return, the return of the theft, not the expropriation. There too if it's wrong; no one talks about expropriation, we talk about returning what was stolen. We therefore propose to make all legal changes and carry out this task through the Peace Union, promoted by the Deputation of the Crown, the municipalities of Sada and La Coruña, the University of Coruña, the Commission for the Recovery of the Historical Memory of Coruña and the Galaga for Memory Initiative, among other entities that have already stood in favour of this Union for Peace to carry out all the actions necessary to achieve that return to the Greek people. Thirdly, we ask you — we want you to tell us whether you agree on this too — to condemn statements by representatives of the Franco Foundation, who seem intolerable to us. Mr. Feijó asked for measures from these Frankists. We don't ask them for measure, we ask them to leave this country. We don't love each other here. They're not grateful in this country. So what we're saying is that we can't allow this intention to be perpetuated by creating a theme park of exaltation, of the apologization of fascism, and we also call for its illegalization. Fourthly, as far as visits to Meirás are concerned, we want the proposal of the Whole of the Sada Corporation to be supported by this council who manages them to ensure that a vision is given according to history and truth. It seems to us, of course, ridiculous — and I don't know why they assume this — that fine of 4,500 euros. They didn't even dare put the maximum allowed by law, which is a modest sum of 6,000 euros, and yet we would have a lot to do with it, because you, the People's Party, gave 53,000 euros of public subsidies to the Franco family. They gave him 53,000 euros of public funds to do something they were obliged to do by law, which is to open the palace for the visits. You gave him 53,000 euros of public funds, and now they put a ridiculous fine of 4,500 euros. We're not worth that either, and this also speaks of the permissiveness, the complicity they have with Franco, family and frankness. And finally, we want them to speak about it and to vote on it as well. We call for support for the elaboration and adoption of a Welsh law of historical memory as a guarantee of the right to truth, justice, reparation and to prevent them from acting with total impunity such foundations as ours. So, ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of Meirás goes much further, as I said at the outset, of all these issues that I have just reported. It's part of a struggle for collective dignity, for decency and justice in our country, in Galicia. It's a question of democratic hygiene. No European country in our surroundings would allow something like this to happen, that there was a Hitler foundation, a Mussolini foundation, and that it would take up public goods. This is indeed a case of democratic shame. It is a case of democratic shame! You mustn't be too ashamed of us, but it seems to us to be a case of democratic shame. With this initiative and also with the initiative put forward by the Marea Group, what we have to do is an anti-fascist democratic health cord in Galicia, put a barrier and decide which side is everyone on, whether it's on the side of democracy or whether it's on the side of franchise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u144	...and to do it with words and, above all, with facts, which so far you, the People's Party, have not done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u145	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. We are going to repeat some of the issues of demands that we believe should be shared by all, absolutely all parliamentary groups, but, before we start this, there are some important issues at context level, because it's a lot of the information we have, there's a lot of studies, there's a lot of documentation, there are even theses that really describe the facts. And I'm going to make a little reference to a work by the great author, one of the most important of the 19th century, Emilia Pardo Bazán, who designed and built the palace, a cultured woman, who created a creative space that later became a barbaric space. Emilia Pardo Bazán was born, as she said, in Marineda, in September — Saturday would be a birthday — in 1885. He married in the chapel, and expressed his will to be buried in that very space, which was not fulfilled. After she died in 1921, she left two heirs, her daughter Branca and her daughter-in-law. They decided to give it away to the Company of Jesus, but the Company of Jesus did not accept the conditions. This intrigued me. Why didn't you accept the terms? Well, because that farm was mortgaged. Hypothetized by whom? For the People's Bank. Who was the director of the People's Bank? Pedro Barrie de la Maza, then Count of Fenosa. Curious! Keep this data in mind. All right, if we stick to the context, it's not a context of uprising, it's a context of uprising, change of order, subversion and outrage of the legally constituted Republic's democracy. We're not talking about two groups on equal terms, for nothing, there's a band that rebels and makes a coup d'état. Well, well, the coup d'états have taken power, they've already killed the capital general of the Crown. And in 1937, a commission was created, an interim meeting, formed by whom? By Julio Muñoz de Aguilar, at that time civil governor of the Couña do Régime; then, curiously, head of the civilian house of the most general. What did you want with this joint? Then they made a provisional meeting for the Peace of the Caudillo. And for what? For to make this gift, this false, absolutely false and documented donation, which demonstrates and endorses the illegitimate title of the Franco family. So, who was it for? For these two people, among other leaders of the rebel gang that controlled the province. How did three-person commissions, supervised by whom? For the talkers. What were they doing? Forcible expropriations, extortion, polio, threats, coercion, armed robbery, discounts on government officials' payrolls, voluntary contribution bonds... in the Betanzo Property Registry it is something you can consult and know how it is and what the terms of buying-in are. This is a coat of hair. To talk about prayer and gift is an outrage to historical truth. Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán, Truth and the coast below, would be a title of some of her works. This tells us that, of course, the purchase-sale was, in fact, something illegal, under pressure. With regard to the Francisco Franco National Foundation, ladies and gentlemen, it's incredible, we don't know if it's a joke of four exalted, we don't know whether it's an aberration, or whether it's an anomaly. Of course, he's got impunity. Do you know when the Francisco Franco National Foundation was founded, when it was created? Four days before the democratic elections after the dictatorship. Four days earlier they've placed this foundation in a place that we think can be an ally. I am not a lawyer, but we believe it is very easy, very easy, that if a law allows the exaltation of fascism and franchiseism, because that law must be changed, and for that there are parliaments and congresses. That's what they're for! [[Applause]] They're legislating cameras. Why do we say that the National Francisco Franco Foundation does not comply with basic democratic principles and also violates the Constitution? Because it violates the Constitution in its Article 34.1, with regard to the purposes of general interest. And Article 3 of the Foundation Act 5/2002 says that foundations are for the defence of human rights, of victims of terrorism, violent acts, assistance, social inclusion, civic purposes, education, cultural, scientific, own, that respect the principles of democracy, which promote tolerance for the development of information of scientific research. And the Francisco Franco Foundation raises the criminal. How can it be legal a foundation that despises human rights? How can it be legal — and it's not a joke — a foundation that abhors the victims, the victims and all of us? It's indignity! He speaks openly that we have pathology. Whose pathology is it? And we have to listen to our president this morning saying that if there is any exaltation, action will be taken. What measures? Didn't you hear the media? He went out in every way. You're already harming your right to respect, your right to memory, your right to reparation. He's being publicly and expressly injured. And our president says that if you ever say... didn't he read the communiqués? You didn't hear them? Or are they on the back and on the side? [[Applause]] Well, we believe that we must strongly condemn the negationism of this foundation which attempts to erase and falsify proven and documented historical facts. "Franco didn't shoot anyone." Is that what it is? Is it lucky? Is it a joke? Is this happening in some country in the world? For something we are the second country, after Cambodia, with less exhumation of corpses; 1,200 people waiting to be recognized, with absolute right. What's that double measuring rod, victims of one and other victims? "There are no bands now," she said, "I don't know who. I wish! May we have the high consciousness and dignity enough to repair this and to reach a pact, of course; all in the same boat for the defense of dignity and democracy if we really are... [[Applause]] We bring here, from the Town Hall of Sada, issues that we fully share. The Sada Council also shares the agreements of the Provincial Parliament of the Crown, of many memorialist groups, of much of civil society, and we believe that most Democrats and Democrats in this country. We know that the management of the palace is a shame and an offense. It's apologizing, it's a visit scheme, and this is a joke, this is a joke. The penalty of 4,500 euros is ridiculous. The palace must be public heritage. We need to change the law and look for the return. Civil society and public administration must make a whole. At the Sada Council they prepared a document that we subscribe absolutely. They offer to be peacekeepers. They refuse visits to be managed by the Foundation, of course. They force the owners to comply with the BIC. It turns out that the President of the Foundation is Franco's daughter, but, well, the palace must be of public ownership. We call for an institutional declaration of express condemnation of the Frankish communiqués and support for the victims. They will urge the Courts to amend the law, and it is necessary and it is easy to change the Law of foundations to illegalize the Foundation. And to conduct a study, of course, of course, around space on the process to enable the return or incorporation to the public heritage. Therefore, our PNL urges the Board and this House to share and support the content of the agreement approved in the plenary session of the municipal corporation of the Council of Sada of 12 August. Second. Assume the House's willingness to agree, promote or demand the legislative initiatives referred to in this agreement. Third. To urge the Council of Galicia to implement the agreement in the so-called municipal plenary within its administrative powers. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a debate on a bill by the nationalist group in which I made a reference to the policy of interests — which we have the statutory duty to defend Galicia's interests — and the policy of principles, which is how we defend interests according to the principles that each one shares with his or her groups. Today the debate is exclusively of principle and so, if I may, I want to begin by referring to three principles on behalf of my group. First of all, the first principle is to show the maximum about the victims of franchise. I know that, for generational reasons, there is one who is present in this House. I know that in this House, in all groups, in opposition groups, but also in the People's Group, there are relatives of victims of franchise, and I want to show our utmost respect to all those who have suffered, for their ideas, persecution during the dictatorship. Clearly, the second principle is that democracy is respect. Democracy is about minorities, but it's also about the majority. I would like to thank, on behalf of the People's Group, for abandoning the attempt to overcome franchise to the Galician People's Party Group, which is the group that represents a majority of Greeks who share the democratic principles established... not, voted and supported by the people of Galicia, in the 1978 Constitution. They're not talking to New Force, they're talking to a party that militates and participates in the majority group of the European Parliament, which is the European People's Party; they're not talking to the groups representing the National Front, the neo-Nazis and the Austrian, Dutch fascists, etc., and they're not even talking to a party that integrates the Polish or the British Conservatives, and they're even talking to a party that has condemned all the degeneration of democracy at European level in Poland, Hungary, Venezuela, and we're also joining in condemnation of any violation of democratic order in our country, particularly in Catalonia. [[Applause]] And we ask for that respect because democracy is not to give BNG the reason, as I said a moment ago; democracy is the respect for the minority and also for the majority, the respect for the democratic standards that we all have given ourselves, the respect for the constitutional rights of all, regardless of whether we are grateful for ideas or whether we are grateful for people and, above all, also for the administrative procedures that result in the sanctions provided for in the law and not those which would result more grateful to us for specific political conjunctors. The PP is not a franchisor, nor has it been in the past, nor is it in the present... in this House we condemn him... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u149	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u150	...sometimes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u151	Silence! Silence! With regard to who is in the use of the word, which all intervention shifts have been observed here. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u152	...in 2008, in the debate of the state of autonomy of 2014 and 2016, we voted those convictions. I explicitly want to make it clear that we do not share either the ideal nor the outcome of the representatives of the family or the Francisco Franco Foundation and that we believe that they do not favor democratic coexistence; a foundation that considers that the Transition was a betrayal, precisely, to the legacy of their father and that they put the criticism of the Transition on the same plane as those who say that nothing has happened here. Third principle. About the law. A new edition of Raymond Aron's book, Democracy and Totalitarianism was recently published in Spanish, saying, "As long as constitutional rules are respected, something will always be preserved. It's preserving legality, at the moment men let themselves be dragged through passions, as civil peace is maintained." He speaks of the fine silk thread, which is the thread of legality, which separates us from the thread of the sword. Well, our clear commitment to the fulfilment of democratic laws in this House. Going beyond the regulation, this group proposed a reform of the electoral law in the past legislation. You talked about poking, attacking democracy, and we, as there was no consensus, didn't get it out, and most of it the Statute marks for it. We're watching other parts of Spain as they skip the Rules, they skip the Statute, they skip the Constitution, and you seem to like that. Here is a democratic behaviour and respect for the Constitution, also shown in practice, and not only in condemnations of franchiseism. And precisely because we defend democracy they won't see us either of the palm-brokers' hooks, of whom we call democratic mayors in Catalonia — those we show our solidarity — or those who want to overthrow democracy and the Constitution with a kind of referendum decision-making justification that unfortunately reminds Carl Schmitt, or much less of those who walk in demonstrations of this magnificent example of the capacity to regenerate a citizen, a magnificent example of regeneration of the Spanish prison system, which is Mr Otegi. We are talking about the GNP, which sets out these principles. This summer I read a book, which I recommend to you, of Sacha Bathyany, a journalist who is grandson of Margit Von Thyssen, who, as you know, participated, at the end of the war, with his husband, in the murder, during a feast in his palace, of 200 Jews arrested by the Nazis. In that book, that person's grandson reflects on the individual's freedom, his destiny and family inheritance. And he says, "Each generation has its own obligations. The fathers' generation has been reluctant to remove the debris from the outside. Removing the remains of the soul is the task of the grandchildren." That's why we think it's convenient for the Meirás palace, the Meirás towers to return to the public heritage. And with that perspective we present today an amendment, which will be PNL in case there is no agreement in the House, so we ask that the towers of Meirás, which were indeed, and according to what it tells us about historiography, bought to the heirs of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán — of course, also for the amateurs of history, will know that if they were bought to the daughter and widow of the son, that he was a Monarchic soldier arrested, taken to a check and passed him because he was anti-republican, and his son, we don't know why, that they were the next day they were shot, you don't know very well where—... that's the history of Spain that we all have to be able to remember to never repeat. Well, he was bought to the heirs of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán. Obviously, historiography, like Eduardo Rico, contradicted that it was a cost to make a voluntary purchase. Some, of course, who took advantage of the dictatorship, made voluntary prayers, but not the whole population of the province of Coruña, which was where they materialized by representatives of Falanxe and the Regime, many of them named by Franco himself, the supposedly voluntary exposition with which they bought the palace to the heirs of wife Emilia, who, of course, was all less voluntary. What is true is that the legal form was private business between individuals, with which, of course, it has legal protection that has led the heirs of the Franco family even to oppose the BIC declaration. And it came to the Supreme Court — that some governments have done it, for example, the Sada Block, when I was in the Union, also in the Council of Culture — to rule out expropriation, precisely because I didn't have to pay twice to the Franco Family, which the people of Galicia had already paid in 1938. And in addition to the failure to comply with the German legislation on access to BICs, we find that there is an assignment to the Franco Foundation, which also says the opposite of what has to be a visit to a BIC, which is to enhance a cultural asset, and what they want is to do directly apologizing to the franchiscan regime. That's why we propose that the judicial study be done, because, Mrs. Cuña, indeed, it is a very legally complicated subject by the private form of registration and the historical circumstances that accompanied the purchase of the palace to donate it, to give it, legally, after making the expropriation of money, to the Franco family. It's a complex legal situation, which may require the modification of other autonomous or state laws. What we offer is that all the administrations, headed by the board, with the participation of historians and jurists for the technical complexity of the matter, are part of a commission that analyzes the entrance of the palace of Meirás to the public heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u154	Obviously, we're not going into other matters. The statement of unsatisfied person, in addition to knowing that it's a matter that has no administrative relevance, reminds much of Jorge Edwards' book called Unsatisfied Persona. Jorge Edwards writes it when Allende sends him to Cuba to open Chile's embassy in Cuba, and is immediately banned by Fidel Castro and Pinochet. It's the misfortune of Democrats who oppose any form of authoritarianism and totalitarianism. We're not going to go into that, we're not going to get the government to illegalize foundations, that they have to do the courts, but we're willing, respecting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u156	...lawfulness and taking into account what the symbolism of the palace of Meirás means, to advocate his entry into the public heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u157	Graza, Mr. Puy. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize to the House for this delay. The truth is, as we all know, we have been watching -- not only since this summer -- for months to really scandalous events in connection with the palace of Meiraes: non-compliances with the family of a murderer dictator that prevents entry into the palace; of a palace that is clearly... and we summarize already because it has already been explained here: a booty of war. That's what really is the palace. And now we're watching something else, we're attending a Francisco Franco Foundation that manages the visits and publicly says that it's going to use those visits to apologize Franco's figure and franchise. [[Applause]] That's a provocation, a challenge, an insult to the victims of franchise, to the whole of Greek citizenship and, of course, to all Democrats. In view of this, which has caused a real scandal and critical concern throughout the whole of Galician society, we expected a powerful response from the Government that represents us, and that's where we found another scandal. Because what happened — it passed and passed — with the palace of Meirás, a symbol where they are from the franchise corruption, a symbol also where they are from the thefts of franchiseism, is that for the PP — and also here for the Galician PP — it is a symbol of their absolutely ambiguous attitude towards franchiseism and the denunciations to the dictatorship. And I'm going to talk about this because Mr. Puy also opened this debate, which is the idea and attitude of the PP in relation to historical memory and all that period of our past. You say you don't support frankism, but look, all of this has to prove with facts, Mr. Puy, and yesterday the PP voted against the annulment of absolutely illegal court rulings, and they voted against it! That must be proved by facts, Mr. Puy. [[Applause]] And they voted against the Congress of the State of all the proposals we made to the opposition in connection with the Vale dos Fallos, a shameful monument where there are them, and they voted against it! And they voted against, in this House itself, of a Law of historical memory and of dignity for the victims that the only thing they were looking for was to be able to get out of these pits of forgetfulness to all the victims of the franchise presented by the socialists, who were supported at that time by the BNG, and you voted against it! And they voted against it, Mr. Puy, and I recommend that you read the Journal of Sessions of that day because you did not just vote against it, did you vote against them by failing to respect the victims of franchise, voted against you by disregarding the entire historical memory, because to you the Law of Historical Memory and the Historical Memory itself gives them regret, true regret, so they try to stay away from it, Mr. Puy. [[Applause]] It's very nice to talk, but we have to act. Because if you, if the People's Party believed what you said, they would be voting otherwise, and that's what they don't do. Here with what we met, Mr. Fuy, it was with absolute shame. Besides a slap, another one. A government that represents us, when a fascist, pro-Christian, pro-racist foundation, which is missing out on all the victims, and a dictator's family face a challenge to the government, and they challenge to see what it does, you're holding your head. That's really what the Government of Feijóo did. We ask that those demonstrations be rejected. They're not small demonstrations, eh!, they've been growing. And do you know the highest adjective said by the Government of Feijóo? That they were unfortunate. Unlucky! Mr. Puy, check the hemero library. That's what we got them to say, that they were unfortunate. An attitude you've had on this subject because you haven't managed to remove ghosts from the past, because you still think they have there, I don't know that if you have a cluster of votes, if you have to hide a past. I don't know what you believe, I don't know, but they have a problem there. And here Meirás is the symbol of this PP problem with historical memory. I also remind you, Mr. Puy, that they have done nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing, since 2009 in connection with historical memory. And in that rule of law that you say, every law must be fulfilled, also that of historical memory, and you are not fulfilling it. [[Applause]] A weak government, fearful, with no reaction capacity, with lukewarm, permissive statements. He's surrounded by a lack of competence, with a permissive attitude that doesn't surprise us either, and we're not surprised because it's the one you've always followed with the palace of Meiraes. Even today Mr. Feijóo said that you, and he as President of the Government, had forced the Franco family to open the palace. But do you still believe that they can make alternative truths and will sell them? Look, that palace opened against Mr. Feijóo's opinion. Look, Mr. Puy, this is what Feijóo said in 2007: "He claimed that the Union cannot force the Franco family to open Meirás." Year 2007. Mr. Feijóo was against his declaring BIC and against his opening. Through what? That it wasn't a palace, that it was a tower. But it turns out it's BIC because it's a historic site. No peace or tower, whatever it is, it's a historic place! And here Mr. Feijó refused to open. That's your belief in the situation. [[Murmurs.]] They didn't want the BIC, they didn't want to open it, because they had to stand in front of the Franco family. What did they force the Franco family? Of course, it's easy to force her! Putting money on the table makes it easy, eh! They were obliged to make an agreement with them in which they were paid the security of the palace. By the way, the same company that the Franco already had. I mean, they paid what the Francs already had to pay, the guides. And they made a deal with them that they wouldn't say anything if they were shut down in August, so they could pose in Hello and go on vacation. That is the strong, authoritarian attitude and belief in the democracy that this government has with the symbol of the ambiguity of the PP, which is the palace of Meiraes. That's what happened. We said they couldn't be paid, and they were paid EUR 54,000. As soon as they weren't paid, they began to close, and you didn't do anything to this last file, with an ironic fine. And they told them they had to open it. Look, the only thing that happened to Feijóo, in addition to everything he did, is to ask the Francos to hurt the palace. You asked him politely, that's right, eh! I don't think the Francos can complain. The palace hurts. They're still laughing there, I think! The palace hurts. And without jokes now, I tell you something else, because I don't have time to explain to you how offended I am, the offended who is my group, the offended who is everyone who has a minimum of historical knowledge and a minimum of a democratic spirit, when Mr. Feijóo said they would do the peace to reconcile with the Greek people. You've got to have a lot of faces! When I have time, I will explain to you, Mr. Puy, what the Franco family and what anyone can do to reconcile himself with all the killings, savages and everything else that has happened this time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u160	Yes, I'm done right now. By the way, Mr. Puy, I would like to — neither you nor any of us, nor you, nor you, either, to speak of the head of the state in a dictatorship. He's a dictator, he's a dictator and nothing else! But if you think that the family can be reconciled by giving up a palace they have expropriated, I think it's already the top of the hives! [[Applause]] And when we have time, I'll explain, and all of you too, why asking for reconciliation with the donation of a palace is a coat of hair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u161	Thank you. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u162	The Franco family... finished. It's just that he also had time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u163	No, but you've got more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u164	The Franco family is challenging you. Respond. They respond democratically, because all they did was hide their heads.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u166	The truth is he played a card to Mr. Puy today. Tell us about the victims. Curiously, they didn't applaud this part of the speech. He was applauded by Venezuela and Catalonia, but not this part. They shouldn't believe much of it because they didn't applaud this part of the speech for their teammates. [[Mr. Puy utters words that are not perceived.]] And of course, respect for the victims, Mr. Puy, gentlemen of the People's Party, is demonstrated not by words, is demonstrated by facts, is demonstrated by facts! For example, do you think it's about the victims that Mr. Rajoy assumes he doesn't spend a single euro on the Historical Memory Act? Do you think this is about the victims? By the way, while they give grants to the Franco Foundation, which is even more serious. [[Applause]] Do you think you respect the victims who cancel the pit exhumation aid? Do you think this is about the victims? Does it seem to you that the victims who are opposed to parliamentary agreements and who are in breach of parliamentary agreements, such as what was taken in the State Parliament on the Falls Valley? Does it seem to you that the victims are systematically failing to comply with the recommendations of the UN Special Rapporteur and the UN Special Commission on Forcible Disappearance? Do you think this is about the victims? Do you think that I respect the victims to turn Meirás' palace into a franchise theme park? Do you think of the victims who turn San Simón into a amusement park with all kinds of fun and recreational activities, some profits, while historical memory activities are banned? [[Applause]] Do you feel respect for the victims? It seems to us that it is an offense, a contempt and an outrage to the victims. Of course, not that way, they go wrong. And you say they're not franchisees, that PP isn't franchisees. I'd tell you what's not small excuse, manifest accusation. But anyway, what I want to remind you is what they screamed... calm down, calm down, don't alarm. [[Murmurs.]] I know this makes them very nervous, but calm, calm. I was talking to them before the vices of origin... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u167	Silence, silence,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u168	...and when the People's Alliance was founded, curiously, what the compromisers were collecting there was: Frank!, Frank!, Frank! Those are their vices of origin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u169	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u170	And, of course, now it turns out that they come here invoking legality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u171	Please, let's finish this debate. Silence to all! Quiet, please, everyone. We shall end this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u172	What we've come to understand is that they're very uncomfortable with this subject because they have those feelings, those complexes and those feelings. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u173	Tell me about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u174	Speaking of legality, it seems to us a real legal and political aberration of all kinds to put at the same level as those who defend a referendum and committed genocide This is a real barbarity! [[Applause]] It's a real aberration! How can you compare, speaking of legality, these facts? And of course, about the legality — which is very good at defending legality — what we have to tell you is that — this is a lesson in history — it was questioning the legality as the world advanced, how rights and freedoms were conquered. So sometimes you have to question the laws when they are unfair or when they don't fit the needs of a people or people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u175	Finish and talk to me about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u176	Yes, of course, but they didn't let me speak before, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u177	But he spoke before two and a half minutes more, he's compensated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u178	I ask you to take an example, which is a magnificent person in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u179	You know, that's why, but we don't go. Look at the weather, 43 seconds more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u180	Yes, but I was interrupted by the lords of the PP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u181	Tell me about the amendment, tell me about the amendment that matters.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u182	The amendment, what we ask of you with this agreement, is to say which side you are on, which side is the People's Party. If you are on the side of impunity or the condemnation of frankism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u183	But do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u184	If you're on the side of forgetfulness or truth; if you're on the side of the police and the robbery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u185	But do you accept the PP amendment or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u186	...or justice; if they are on the side of reparation or permanent offense to the victims.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u187	No, don't talk to me about it. Tell me whether you accept the amendment or not. Mr Bará, tell me if you accept the amendment or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u188	...that's what we asked them to do. What we ask of them is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u189	Do you accept the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u190	We don't accept it, because it seems to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u191	You've finished your shift. No, no. He's out of time. It's over, Mr Bará. Please, your time is up. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u192	Seven little things, so I don't have time. First, thank Mr. Puy for the expression of respect. I think it deserves a round of applause, frankly. Something that had to be; I mean, it's not extraordinary, but explicit is fine. Now, as well as saying that it's not the opposition that has to disenfranchise the People's Party from dictatorship, it's going to have to be the People's Party that proves that it's getting out of dictatorship. [[Applause]] Of course, today's debate is a political debate, not a legal debate; it's just a debate on democracy, a very important debate. And I ask: to the thread of what he said, isn't it democratic to change the law? Of course it's democratic, so we're not? You said, "You must remove the debris from the soul." Of course, the generations that precede us all and all were very scared. The granddaughters are not afraid, and this is an important factor, and we need that truth flourishes because there was a lot of opacity, a lot of falsehood, a lot of negationism, and that's a way of getting rid of the dictatorship, questioning negationism. With regard to the goods, there are goods belonging to the Borbón family, such as Miramar, of San Sebastián, and Magdalena, of Santander, who were of the Borbón family and today are of public domain, as should be Meirás. With regard to Feijóo, I would like to reiterate that there was already the apology of fascism and there was no measure. To also say -- that I don't know if it was a joke or a chance -- that expropriating Meirás's palace was a franchisee is a very unfortunate wink. There must be a lot of caution. You're responsible for what's legitimate. And let the Franco family mock, who makes it, saying provocations... the heirs, the Francos, win over the property and, as it turns out so cheap, they can continue to provoke and say that they will remain owners. All right. The one laughing at this has a phrase from the UN representative that says, "No dignified and mature country allows murderers and their heirs to laugh at the victims." And I also want to say that two days ago the UN -- they note, whether they haven't read it or not, the news has reached them -- expressed in a report their concern about the pattern of impunity that Spain has with respect to historical memory, and even speaks for moments of obstruction of law. He's critical of not acting with due urgency and speed. Many of the victims and witnesses are of advanced age. And he's talking about zeros or pills funding for exhumation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Tell me about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u194	It provides a 90-day period for the State to present a schedule with the implementation of planned recommendations and dates. It's a good opportunity for us to take advantage of this subject and go on with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u195	Thank you. The amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u196	Not the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u197	Don't you? Thank you. [[Assentment.]] [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u198	We shall proceed to the vote on non-law proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga. He said he accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the public transport services of passengers by road of general use. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u199	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. Do you accept the amendment? Is there a transaction? They didn't give it to me. Do I read the transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u200	They've got all the groups already.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u201	Have you met the groups? [[Assentment.]] Well, then, we voted for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the implementation by the Government of Galicia of the mechanisms necessary to re-define in a consensual manner with the educational community to the current network of centres, in order to effectively guarantee equal opportunities for the entire population of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u202	We are now voting for the Group of Parliament of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. From Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be held by the Junta de Galicia for the construction of a day center in Rianxo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u203	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Marta Nóvoa and seven other Members. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union to promote the training of unemployed people through the ‘training check’. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u204	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in relation to the draft law so as to amend Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of Galician health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u205	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado. He was waiting for a transaction, did he?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u206	Well, I don't know, Mr. President. I don't know if the groups accept the transaction because they didn't show up in the gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, but I want to know because, if there's a transaction, if you vote on the transaction and if you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u207	Do you accept the transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u208	How you're going to vote without knowing if there's a transaction!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u209	Do you accept the transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u210	Do you accept the transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u211	Yes, they said yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u213	We vote. Vote for the proposed non-legislative G.P. text. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union before the Ministry of Justice to improve the judicial organization. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u214	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in connection with the situation of the Peace of Meirás, the Franco Foundation and the development of a Welsh law of historical memory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u215	And finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles Cuña. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and 13 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Junta de Galicia with regard to the agreement of the Sada Council in relation to the management of the BIC-Pazo de Meirás. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u216	The votes will end here. Open the doors, please. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u217	I'm communicating a change in the agenda, which is that in the question of Mrs. Luca Chao and Mrs. Angeles Cuña are asking for their withdrawal. That's the question you have with the input log number 13515. Agenda item five, interpelerations. Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, from G.P. in Marea, on the model for the prevention and extinction of forest fires in the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u218	Mr. Rodríguez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u219	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, very good morning. The water came and with it stopped burning in our country. The risk of fires has fallen by change in weather conditions, not by the prevention work that has been done throughout the winter or all spring. On August 27, 3 fires were extinguished, which, after the start of Tuesday, August 22, in three municipalities in Ourense province, took more than 1,000 acres of surface. The last to be completely extinguished was that of Chandrexa de Queixa, who dragged 369 acres. Monterrey, with 327; Castro Caldelas, with 265; and the municipality of Cervantes, with 120 hectares, were the other main fires in that fateful week among those revealed by the Conseilería do Medio Rural. And I say, "among those revealed by the Council of the Rural Environment," because Galicia's policy of information on fires prevents us from knowing exactly how many are produced throughout Galicia. And that's because you yourself, Counselor, admitted to registering a hundred fires in days when your department offered information about a little more than a dozen. That's because Middle Rural reports only on fires over 20 hectares. What do you answer that? Low temperatures and rain reduce the risk of forest fires, that we all know. So it was collected at the Pladiga, from mid-August to early October, they were registered in Galicia in the last ten years, an average of 150 to 200 fires. They're less than those registered in the 1990s, for example, where there were nearly 700 fires in just one week. This year's final data will not be known in any case until the Ministry of Agriculture publishes annual forest fire statistics. The year 2016 we still know it in April of this year, or when the Middle Rural does its own with the 2018 Pladict, something that does not usually happen until the july. In August they burned in Galicia about 4,000 hectares and the bulk of these fires concentrated in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. Added to the previous months, including the winter months, it is possible to conclude that in the year that the burned hectares exceed 7,000, a figure that appears to be less than the sum reached at the same time as last year, but that the Government's information policy necessarily becomes incomplete, making it impossible to place on the map all the fires that are declared and extinguished. Last year 2016, in just one week, in September, some 7,000 hectares were burned, a third of the whole fire during the year. Starting from the previous lack of information, it is possible to draw a map of the fires of the months of July and August, in which the Middle Rural offered concrete data around a quarantine of forest fires, among which fires were highlighted in Verín, with 1,400 hectares burned, Xinzo de Limia, Laza, Montederramo, Celanova, Maside or Vilariño de Conso. The reasons that eight years ago called upon the Union not to report on the fires were the need not to generate social alarm and the intention to prevent the media from publishing the data as they say — they argued then. The Board of Trustees approved the 2017 Pladiga, which cuts and grabs that year after year, that annual document that has been condensing the entire fire fighting device in Galicia for a decade. The Pladiga came out a few days after the start of a high-risk period, on July 1st, which seems to us from En Marea with a very serious irresponsibility. The Pladiga this year again has exactly the 303 means of action between air and land brigades we had last year. The Board did not remit the Pladiga to entities forming the Galician Forest Council until three days before presenting it. He did so even after presenting his main news to the media, with only one weekend in the middle to be able to analyze a document of several hundred pages. What made several entities present in that consultative body decide not to participate in it in the form of protest. According to these entities, in addition to the delay of the Board in transferring the document, and the proximity with which it is made at the beginning of the maximum risk period, another of the practices of the Council to abound in this impedance is to put the time of the beginning of the Forest Council after lunch, after noon, to leave little room for debate and in-depth treatment of the issues of the agenda. These disturbing practices we speak of — these entities are not sporadic, but consist of the usual modus operandi of the Rural Environment Council. The Rural Council gives the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service a number of vehicles that do not meet the technical characteristics negotiated and collected in the conditions of the competition, and which are not even suitable for their work. Once the current pick up vehicles — whose effectiveness and operation are improved — reached five years, the trade unions started negotiations with the Council for the purchase of new vehicles in November 2016. Although the Board did not pay attention to all the contributions made by staff representatives, an improvement of some importance was achieved. The technical features agreed were published in the DOG of 23 May this year. Staff vehicle contracts ended on 25 March, while in the case of layoffs ended on 25 May. So the Administration decides to extend the 113-day contract further to the fixed personnel vehicles, and 120 to the staff vehicles did so. With this data you can perfectly perceive that there was time left to bid and deliver in time and form the vehicles that are dedicated and that it had been decided that they should be delivered. But on May 15, 2017, Junta decides to re-modify the technical conditions of public service vehicles, re-destinating its technical characteristics. So we find ourselves withdrawing current vehicles instead of delivering the negotiated ones. What they do is they deliver others who for nothing meet the pact between the unions and the Council itself, and that they are not even suitable for the work they carry out, because they don't have extinction equipment, neither water nor retardant equipment, and they have the technical characteristics of an all-road and not an all-earther. Regarding the lack of personnel, several union power stations report the lack of human resources in the Galician Defence and Prevention Service, as a result of the total improvisation of the Rural Environment Council. Moreover, they accuse the Council of lying when it ensures that the operation is in full operation from June 1st, the day the maximum risk begins, because, until July 14th, Seaga's employees for the extinction work did not start their activity. If this is the case, this is very serious, since you said that the fire plan — the Pladiga — was fully active with 7,000 people on July 1st, the date on which the high-risk fire campaign began, according to the order of June 15th, 2017, published in the Official Gazette of Galicia on June 21st. Until July 14th, these workers did not start their work for extinction work. Nor can we forget the forest quadrilles hired by the municipalities, since many of them did not make the contracts, because of the demands imposed by the administration itself, until August in some cases. But yet, they contained the data in the personal picture of the Pladiga you announced. Many of the Joint Forest Quadrillas are working with two or three components, which undermines the operation against fires, in the same way that endangers the lives of workers themselves. This shortage of staff should be solved through the corresponding temporary contracts, which is neither done nor expected to be done. And circumstances in the operation against fires are occurring quite sympathetic — or sad — depending on how you look. Forest firefighters are incorporated together with motorcycle drivers due to the lack of a forest gang leader, leaving his area of action without the means to carry out the fires. This happened in district 12, of mine-Arnoia, or in forest district 18, Vigo-Lower Mine. Total improvisation by the Conseilaria do Medio Rural in the deployment of human resources by the different forest districts that integrate the public service; in fact, workers of this report denounce the enormous temporality they suffer, and demand the convening of an OP as a labour force. The timing affects 40% of the workers and workers and no public job offer has been called since 2003 despite the fact that trade unions and the Galician Union have signed an agreement in September last year, so the Administration committed itself to allocating 20% of the public employment markets. In spite of this, the public fire extinguishing service is none of the squares called for this year. Next to this, he drew attention to the fact that out of the total staff, of those 7,000 people you announced to fight on the fire fighting device, only 800 are hired for twelve months a year, only 600 work nine months a year, and 436 work only for three months a year, so they have no right in many cases or to receive a benefit. This undermines their working conditions and also often puts at risk, because of these working conditions, their own life in the work they're doing. Means have been taken away, such as the helicopter from the base of Vilanova de Valdeorras, one of the districts where we have the most incidence of fires, a highly complicated orographical zone, where we have stops like the saw of the Lastra Company or the Casaio Teixedal — the only oak forest in Europe — the whole Navea Valley, the Bibei Valley, in the Central Macizo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u221	And you know that the reaction time in a fire is vital. Junta has set up a lot of money, many thousands of euros, to improve that base. And now they've removed the helicopter. We have registered an initiative from In Marea for which we ask that, please, this year, in what remains of course, to solve those technical problems that have with that base and to return that helicopter, which we believe is vital to the province of Ourense, is vital for a whole region like Valdeorras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u222	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u223	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I must begin my speech by thanking you, thanking you in my name, and I believe that of all the Greeks and the Greeks, to professionals who throughout the summer — throughout the whole year but exceptionally in the summer – and in very extreme conditions, in the most extreme, accompanied by lack of water, have watched for the safety of all the Greeks and the Greeks. Mr President, in a few things, after listening to your speech, I can agree. I had so recorded a series of questions in which the fires of tears were held. It's the only thing I can agree with everything you said during your intervention. With which, I'd ask you, when you're given that information, be strict. What you can be calm about is that, of those agreements with trade union organizations, they are going to be carried out. You don't fool anyone, as you did in previous stages. I fully agree to name forest fires as it tears, as it does in its written questions. I'd go further: every intended fire is an attack, it's an attack on the countryside, it's an attack on the environment, it's an attack on the economy, it's an attack on the animals, it's an attack on the people, it's an attack on the Greeks and the Greeks. But, Your Honor, not only in Galicia, but also in the rest of Spain, also in Europe; that is, it's a scourge that exists throughout the planet. The neighbouring Castela-León, to whom we sent strikes from here, has a lamentable situation today after yesterday, about 7:30 a.m., I had six consecutive outbreaks. And it was the case of Catalonia, it was the case of Andalusia, it was the case of Portugal, with which we were at first, but also during the summer, when there were extreme conditions here. But they needed it. It was the case of France, the United States, Canada or Australia. No one gets rid of the forest fires, but no one already hides the intent in most of the fires that occur. Because today the means of detecting causality are more effective, and because — we have said so many times — the mountain and the pasture does not kill itself. In any case, you call me a lot of attention since I've been a counselor -- and sometimes when I have an interpellation, whether I'm here or I answer a question -- that you never appoint the incendiaries. I haven't heard them or mentioned them, nor have I heard them applaud their arrests, nor even demanding harsher penalties for those we consider terrorists from the mountain. Look, there's no deseasonation of forest fires. And we can't say that the forest fires went out with water this summer, because to hear that they went out with water this summer is to miss the truth for active and passive. They were the most extreme conditions that have been in existence for a long time — and if not, if you just have to see history — in which the 40 degrees have been surpassed in most days. And the fires appear when the atmospheric conditions make it possible for them to increase. What if it exists is that high activity in a period of extreme conditions, and the extreme conditions met this summer in Galicia. But still in that period, 80% of the fires did not reach an acre. It's true that this is because of the personnel, the good personnel who work in the fire prevention and extinguishing service: forest firemen, agents, technicians, neighbors, motorcycle drivers, air operations, city halls... it's thanks to them all, and also to society, which is becoming more and more conscious. [[Applause]] Fires concentrate, concentrate in certain areas. And following the Mountain Law, indeed, we have the parishes of high incendiary activity. They're a total of 73 parishes, and most of them are in the Ourense areas. We continue to demand measures, of course, we continue to demand strong measures against the incendiaries and their actions to prevent their return to the mountain without any kind of monitoring and control. We remember that, according to the study of the Conseilerie do Medio Rural, of every four fires, three are intended fires. As for the year, I have to tell you, because it says we are not transparent, that there has never been greater transparency than when the People's Party ruled, when we are ruling. But one who's talking here was mayor in his day, when he ruled a bipartisan. Then there was no information. [[Murmurs.]] I have to tell you today that the surface affected by the fires, the surface burned this year, is 46.2% less than last year. It's 9,500 acres less than last year. But I really don't come here bragging about that, that's what matters the least. What matters is that there is not a single fire in Galicia. But there's 46.2% less burnt acres than it means there wasn't a high fire activity. [[Applause]] It doesn't mean there wasn't a great interest in Galicia burning. In fact, there were 487 fires more than last year. If we talk about the summer, from July 1 to yesterday, the surface burned in Galicia this year was 72.2 % lower than the one burned in 2016, and 32.8% less than it burned in 2015. And, of course, I won't remember the one that burned during the time of the Bipartite. This indicates that the operation coordinated by the Galician Union was able to cope successfully, and it was unique and exclusively thanks to them and to the society that this was possible. I remember again: 487 more fires, high fire activity, interest in which Galicia burns, but 80% did not reach more than 1 acres. We've got a total of 650 quadrilles, 30 air vehicles and 360 motorcycles. And we have at this moment, because, as I know, it rains a little in Santiago, which is raining in the Coruña, doesn't mean that in Ourense it is raining today, and the temperatures are still being high, and we still have a lot of water shortage. This has to be added to the tanks, the passageways and the 280 vehicles. The operation is not only of a public nature, it is also balanced; balanced in its composition and according to the division of existing competences. Prevention. Prevention and extinction of fires is everyone's responsibility, just as it is everyone's duty, which is to comply with the law. They are already known — because I informed them in this House a few months ago — that we have been in contact with all the administrations since the Conseileria de Medio Rurale, with the state, with the local authorities, with the Ministry of Development, with the provincial deputies, with the Fegamp, with the municipalities, also with the electrical companies and also with the highways, to remind them of the rules of application and facilities they comply with and enforce the law. Even though the incendiaries continue to test our operation and our firefighting device, it continues to respond and do it very effectively, with a reaction time between 16 and 20 minutes. I must highlight the great fire that was from Verín, and the extinguishing device was acting in eight minutes. By the way, this fire has occurred in an area — as the honourable Member must know — which is treed, perfectly ordered and also productive. Paragmatic cases of fire activity are the ones I tell you below, so they don't say no information is given. All necessary information is given. They are, for example, the one of Panton County, Lugo, where from July 1 to now there were 46 fires; or the case of the Golan Town Hall, where there were 48 fires. That's why we're proud of the device, that device that's made up of 7,000 professionals who made Galicia not burn this summer, despite the fact that there was a high intention for this to happen. From the point of view of budgetary effort, one must say that a third is destined for extinction and two thirds are destined for prevention; for prevention and valuing the mountain. Galicia has 10,500 hectares of firewalls. Apart from this, it has 5,900 water deposits, 412 built in recent years, of which 789 are suitable for air media. I mean, Galicia actually has good coordination. Well, we have to add to this not only the effort made from the corresponding general direction, but also from agriculture, Ganderia and the improvement of farms, to incorporate on Thursdays, with innovation of new products, with leading measures, with land mobilization, and ultimately the result is that, if we put a proportion, 1 out of 10 euros is destined for extinction and 9 out of every 10 to other measures, such as valuing rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u225	To this you have to add that 98% of the Galician mountain is private, and therefore it is also in the hands of these individuals to do a job, and that is to manage forest land according to regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u226	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, at no time do we doubt the intent of forest fires. We know someone sets the fire on him. We applaud the arrests, of course, and denounce everyone who's setting fire. You don't want to make us guilty now that we are glad that the mountain is burning. I'm a forest fireman, and I also thank you for the thanks you're doing to the device. But he's thanking the device for the work he does and then, at the same time, he's cutting off his rights, he's depriving them of work. We have 436 workers who work three months a year, they can't access benefits per benefit, etc. You're an acquaintance of that fact. Give him a break! Mobile watches are disappearing. Like you said, in a forest fire that's been operating in eight minutes since it was detected, it's a very good reaction time, but for that, there's got to be mobile surveillance. You've suppressed them by the military, the Centinela operation, and they're charging 800,000 euros. It's also true they're leaving money in town halls. In my area, at least, fairs don't lose one, they're all day in it. And keeping an eye on the righteous one better, eh! What did you do this year at the Rural Media Council? What innovation has made it different from those of the other years? A T-shirt that was introduced: "I'm also cutters"; a campaign and a little more. Device remains the same and device continues to fail. Disinformation. In the years when this department of the Greek Government was led by the Bipartite, the rural media information system included all the fires declared in Galicia, all of them. It didn't have to depend on the number of hectares, they were all declared; in detail on the Town Hall and the parish in which they declared themselves, the hours of beginning, the hours of control and end, the means that acted on them and the hectares burned. These parts were broadcast by counseling twice a day, as I think you do now, too, and besides, everyone who called on the phone who wanted additional information, gave it to him. This was the information system that Junta used during the 2006 summer fire strike, which is still the worst in the last quarter of the century. The front-ends daily were quantifying in an early fortnight of August more than 100 separate fires per day. He did it he thought withholding data was a mistake, it wasn't worth anything, and he saw in the publication a motive to denounce the incendiaries. Now you fires that don't or don't exceed 20 hectares are hiding them, they're not taking them out. We need to analyze our situation and articulate measures to prevent these tragedies. The policies carried out over the past few years in rural areas are clearly insufficient for the prevention and extinction of fires by the causes you already know and say here: abandonment of rural areas, but also for the lack of investment in public services, in the Forest Fire Defense Service, that you are dismantling. From reforestation, talk! Alloctone species. Policy based on extinction, not prevention, is also very good for them. There is in the Public Administration a speech only productive of the mountain, which is negative in social terms and in environmental terms, and which is also insufficient in economic terms. That's why it's necessary to change your policies of protecting the territory, preventing and extinguishing fires, moving towards a policy of protecting and preserving the Greek mountain as a fundamental part of our social and economic being. The fight against fires must be based on an integrated strategy, in which the owners and the administration have clear powers, so that actions can be carried out in an organized and coordinated manner, progressively ensuring that preventive actions are more important within the overall planning of the fight against forest fires than those of extinction, which is what is happening now. The Pladiga. Why didn't you approve six months earlier? May it be as a result of months of work and negotiations with civil society and with the majority of society, and with those councils that are formed. We need a model that lasts over time, which is a fruit of consensus between social agents, between companies and political parties. The realization of cultural campaigns and awareness campaigns, so that in those parishes where we have such a high incidence rate we can reduce it, so that the population assumes the defence of its own environment, implementing evacuation plans so that it doesn't happen as it happened in Portugal, which can pass us here any day. Evacation and emergency plans known and practiced by neighbouring populations to those areas where there is a lot of forest mass. Develop a risk plan by locating those places and those areas where there is a greater incidence of fires. A new forest model, a new plan from the Greek mountain. Implement effective ownership measures in the short term; launch of local ownership management programs that favor this joint management. Reduction of the surface occupied by eucalyptus. Set the absolute priority to increasing forest heritage. And this is what I would like to stress, to strengthen the public character of the Forest Fire Defense Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u229	We must restore a single command in the fight against fires. And we have to complete the summer campaign, the defence plan, through the official lists of U.S. recruits. We have to have a single public service, geared towards prevention before extinction. Prevention as the central axis of public action in the fight against fire. Don't start giving these jobs to companies; nor do the municipalities cover more and others cover less depending on the municipalities that they are. You find dismotivated brigades... yes, Counselor. In the Town Hall of Manzaneda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u231	...the workers charge more than the Montederramo Town Hall. Please! And you know that. With the same grant order, there are people who are charging different.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u233	And the military thing... well, I'll be quiet now because there's nowhere to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u234	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Close this interrogation, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's really not easy to answer each of the things I've been listening to right now. First it was said that in 2006 there was a policy of total transparency and information, and the telephone was picked up all over the world. You'd take everyone but the mayors. The mayors didn't pick up the phone and they were burning up the different people, my first one. Mrs. Pontón, I really was a mayor, with whom I can talk and you certainly can't do it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Instead of getting so much on the phone, they should take it to whoever we were in front of the operation in the city halls and just like the rest of them stop taking it and focus on putting out the fires, because it was 95,700 acres of the fires. You want to connect the fires to the eucalyptus, and we're talking about where there's a greater number of burning parishes is in Ourense, and in Ourense there's no eucalyptus. He burns when he's set on fire, whether he's a vineyard, whether he's eucalyptus or not. We can't connect the fires to a species at all. [[Murmurs.]] We talked about the Pladiga and introduced the Pladiga. I mean, it's not that if you create a new Pladiga, it's that there are a few established bases and from there what you're trying to do is to improve them, and what you actually do is to introduce them at the beginning of summer. What could we do before? Surely we could do it before. In the Pladika we also marked ourselves a roadmap, and it's a figure. And in that figure, in addition, what we want is to look for very clear targets, but also very ambitious targets. And what did we say at the Pladiga this year? We were saying, for example, that we should not go beyond an average hectare of wooded surface affected by fire. Did we get it? Not at all. So far it's 1.42 hectares/light the average we have. So, as far as last year is concerned, let's see that all I do is, except for you asking me, compare it with myself, with the previous year, we have reduced it by 58%. Keep the number of fires above 25 hectares below 2% of the total. Well, we're not up to 3%. Keep the percentage of fires smaller than or equal to one hectare above 70% of the total. The number of fires smaller than or equal to one hectare exceeds 74%, and in the summer campaign 80%. Reduce the number of fires against the average of the last ten years. I was in 559 fires. This year it was reduced by 21.5%. Reduce the total burnt area from the average of the last ten years, which was 15,000 hectares. We reduced it to 27.2 % this year. And get a decrease in the number of situation 2 activations. In the last five years it was 13, and this year it was only three. And all this accompanied by a terrible time, with very dry, high temperatures and very steeped winds in certain areas. And all this thanks to what? Well thanks to an operation; an operation that worked well; an operation with which we sit repeatedly and try to improve its conditions, improve its PPE, improve its motorcycles, improve its vehicles. And there have been many improvements, Mr. David, which have been achieved over two years. It sounds like a lie that you belong to that collective! One thing is ideology and another is reality. And there's no more to see the consensus we've reached. And when we reach consensus, it's because we meet. And while I'm here, of course, they believe it's going to be fulfilled. We're in the best condition to congratulate the operation, an operative who defends himself, who doesn't even have to defend this advisor, with exceptional data in a year, also exceptionally dry. Remembering: burned surface, 46,2 % less than the previous year, is 9,500 hectares less, and 72% less than last summer, as in summer. Thanks to the operation, thanks to the researchers, thanks to the security forces, who were able to practice several arrests, and that was a relief in Maceda, it was a relief in Agolada, I hope it will be a relief soon in Panton, and also thanks to the citizen collaboration, which ultimately makes it possible for the security forces to act. And we'll continue to work, we'll continue to work so that those detainees and those relapses can't camp at their broads across the rural Greek countryside, they can't camp at their broads by the Greek mountains, and at least they can be geolocalized. I end up insisting on making a call to society as a whole, it's not a t-shirt that we present, what we present is to be aware, from the most children to anyone else, it gives us the same thing. Not only do you have to be aware of what lives in the countryside, who who can at any given time if you can plunder his home or his plantation, and that anyone, from a city, may be having a vacation, enjoying the Greek countryside, and what happened in Portugal. Therefore, consciousness, it's not a T-shirt. I mean, I'm also cutters, I refuse the fires, I reject the incendiaries, I'm going to denounce each of the incendiaries. And from there on, continue to work, keep working positively, and in common, and talk in common, and that the mountain must be productive, of course!, there are 70,000 jobs that give the Galician mountain. And it's more than 80,000 families receiving income from the Greek mountains. But the mountain is something else, it's biodiversity, the mountain is to enjoy it socially as well, and they're not just plantations in the mountain, there's pasture, and just like there's pasture, and there's got to be a certain mountain where the fauna is. Thank you very much, and thanks, above all, to those you had an interest in this summer's fires in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u236	Thank you, Counselor. Cumulative debate of two interpellations. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reform of Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of health of Galicia Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. de En Marea, on the preliminary draft law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u237	To formulate the petition you have the floor, Mr. Torrado first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again. Counselor, good morning. I'll start at the same place where I'm going to end: we ask you to remove the draft health law reform bill, Counsellor. And we'll explain why we ask him. [[Applause]] They also wanted to explain to you today at some of the demonstrations that were held in front of hospitals, which I don't think they're doing any harm. But I must mention and I would like to transfer our support here, there are representatives of some staff that, in particular in Salnés, have received the visit, sent by the Government Sub-Delegation, the national police to take pictures of them and to see who was manifested and what was said in the banners. I suppose that's also a way to strengthen health care, we don't understand why, but we suppose it's a good way to do it, I suppose it'll explain why. This falcate—not that of the police but what you did in summer—is preceded by a certain legal journey. In 2003, there was a law, basically focused on management, which left out many important issues, especially in rights and health protection. In 2008, there was indeed, as mentioned here, a much more complete law, with a unique title on rights, a defense of the public character of health, which is done through laws, not paying cartels, as was done in some EOXI, paying 200,000 euros for posters that only change and put on the public name. It must be, in case someone was already starting to lose that sense, so they put it on the posters. And it's also done with laws, and it's not bringing proposals to change hospital posters as you do. That law, quite complete, received exactly 91 amendments from the People's Party and one to all. Interestingly, they did not oppose forms of participation, and they even dealt, for example, with Article 23.4, which spoke about the right to information, which they now delete. You've traded articles that now delete without knowing why, indeed. Let's say they'd need a certain internal coherence to know if they're really able to trade something and then keep it in a law, because they'd trade something that then a government suppresses... From that law — although it has been said here today that all respect has been maintained — this is the sixth amendment. Six times a new law and a new law is changed. There are ways to make a law: one is to make a full bill and another is to systematically modify one until there's no trace of the original. The sixth amendment which was not in the electoral programme of the People's Party, which was not announced at any time by the adviser or by any member of the People's Party, which was not explicit in the investment discourse, which was not mentioned in any debate, that there was no PNL that had led to the Commission or the Plenary, that at no time was transferred to any health-related collective the need to make this change. And all of a sudden, August 2nd -- despite the fact that, as mentioned here, it's a normal day like any other -- truly structural and fundamental changes are being created in Galicia's most important health law. We know it seems like normal days August 2-17, because nothing happens in Galicia, it's perfectly workable days, everyone works. It must also be the curiosity that it coincided with the vacations of most of the board. But it must be random, because the others are supposed to have no that right — at least not to worry, that we would be willing to work the same way — but they must have thought it was the best time to encourage participation. It's the best time to encourage participation but not precisely in the allegations of a health law, certainly playful participation of people in other things. In any case, this project has several defects, basically in the background and form. It is, of course, evident that yes, because these 15 days of August do not seem to be too decent to pose such a substantial change. The pressure and the allegations that were expressed in those first 15 days were forced to do... and this is going to be a way of the PP of... we promote double the time of the law, of what we are obliged by the laws, so that there would be citizen participation, twice the time: instead of the first fifteen August we do the two, in August. There was nothing wrong with doing it in September. If it was so urgent, we would like it to explain to us why it was so urgent, why it was so necessary to do so after the end of the session of Parliament, why it was so necessary to do so when citizens are normally on vacations — who can — why it was necessary when professionals are on vacations, why it was necessary when hospitals have — according to their own expertise — much less activity and, therefore, there is less capacity for people working in hospitals and who may be in touch with the field of health especially to have more contact with each other. Why was it so necessary? Why was it so urgent? Why hasn't it been announced before and promoted in August? Did something happen suddenly on August 1 that altered this need? We really want to know, because if we don't know it and still here if you come to this rostrum to say, as it was said this morning, that we want to prevent the debate... I remind you that it was the People's Party that vetoed the counsellor's appearance, in terms of saying that you want to prevent the debate. Even so, don't worry, Counselor, it won't hurt you, you can come here to explain things and we've already done some interpellation, you could have appeared on your own will, you might even have accepted the request of appearance that we proposed to you in the Permanent Deputy. But don't worry, it doesn't hurt, they can explain, and they have the opportunity to explain why that urgency, and they have the opportunity to explain why that veto to that attendance. Why that cowardice? Because this is a cowardly method, a method of fear, of scurantism, of working in hiding. Look, I don't have kids, but the people who have kids say when they're taking care of the kids the worst thing that can happen is they don't make noise. When you do something without making noise, fear. So I think it's very important that you talk about things. We're talking about the processing of a reform of Galicia's most important health law, and you wanted to propose and initiate it in August, without warning, not to mention, and assuming that it was announced to the unions. Yes, calculated between 3 and 4 minutes earlier. They were at a meeting and they said, "By the way, we're going to publish this. But calm down, it's okay, we're going to move them from the hospital, we're going to change the sanitary areas, there's not going to be citizen participation, but it's not going to happen." Participation, by decree — Article 23.4, which was withdrawn, which said that of the right to information. The right to information, removed from the law, will now be by decree. Silvio Rodríguez said, "If you know it's not a right, you'll certainly be a left." Counsellor, why are we withdrawing the right to information from the law, why are we withdrawing the evaluation function of the Galician Health Council? Why? Why do we want to concentrate services? Look, today we were talking here easily at Salnés Hospital, the health area with less services from all over Galicia, and which is also curious: when professionals want to take a break and if they have to do a weekend, if they strike there is a greater demand for minimum services than they normally have working on. His way of getting more services is to strike, because so the minimum services, which are mandatory, would force them to have more staff. That's the situation we have. You, however, when a member at the time asked for the health area, and was from the People's Party, they withdrew and disappeared from political life, that is the way to defend the health areas. Service will be lost, of course. Within the health areas itself there are differences, there is no longer a clear differentiation of services between large hospitals and small hospitals. You're constantly talking about how the workers of the comarcal hospitals will be able to work with the best specialists. Look, there are also good specialists in comarcas, which sometimes people also think about working near their home, or because they like the area more. But there are also different services within the areas themselves. He told her this in the morning, you weren't there, but he knows. I, who are from Vilagarcia, have cardiology service one day a week at my hospital, but someone from Cambados, in the same health area, don't. The people of Cambados -- it's a beautiful village, they live better, and now that they don't rule the PP you like less and that's why they don't do anything in Cambados -- but the people of Cambados must have fewer heart problems. Counsellor, there are problems of differences in service between areas, but they always go out losing their comarcial areas. And it's not possible to accept that someone who lives in the Mosque has to go to many of the services, and now more, two hours by car to Ourense to have to come back later. Because there are services that can't be acceptable. I understand that you don't have to have a top-level transplant service in every hospital in the world, but I think a cardiologist is necessary in every county hospital. I think the pneumology service is necessary, I think the neurosurgery service may also be needed in comarcal hospitals. I honestly think we should have psychiatry services in comarcal hospitals. Counsellor, I know you're used to doing these disgusting things I say, but I do believe that the psychiatry service should be in all comarcas hospitals, and it's not. And I think the inhabitants of Salnès, or other comarcal hospitals, I think they deserve a cardiologist every day a week, because it's necessary, because there's a lot of people who need it. Not you, but we think so. What's wrong? What the clinical system that we have is that private health likes more attention, let's say, clinically simpler than the most complex. They don't make money for oncology work, because oncology is expensive. They don't make money for jobs in big transplants, because they're expensive. Then they like the public to have a good level. What you don't want the public to work hard is traumatology, cardiologist... why? Because people, when they have need, end up going to them, and that's where private makes more money. If we are those issues that are clinically, theoretically, the simplest we send them only to central hospitals, we are making everyone who has to go two hours to see a slip of ankle — which may be the moment when you have the tendency, which this project allows, to take the services to central hospitals — because it will end up going to the private, that you are what you want. They made a dark preliminary draft, and you intend to legislate to consolidate a first and second health care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u239	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u240	And, Counselor, from our point of view, you've already lost the opportunity to be brave, you've already lost the opportunity to explain things, you've already lost the opportunity to prove that it really is in the interest of defending public health. But at least he explains even if it's only his intentions, because it's much better if he explains them. I know I didn't want to show up, but it's because parliamentary democracy has these things, sometimes you have to come here even if you don't want to. That's why we ask him and give him the opportunity to explain them, you see that we do so willingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u241	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u242	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Today, as you have already been transferred, you are here because we are and because the opposition in Parliament is asking you. And I wanted to put emphasis on this point because the three opposition groups requested their appearance and, however, you did not admit to attending, and your Group of the People's Party transferred their opposition to their appearance. Nor do you come to this plenary in view of the data offered by the Galician Institute of Legal Medicine on suicides in Galicia. It seems pretty serious to us, Counselor, this disappearance of yours, and I tell you honestly, I don't do it in a speech tone or it's an imposure. I'm telling you because, in view of these data that were offered last week, that our understanding is very serious, in view of the mobilizations that are being made in the health areas and in the opinion of the opposition and the unions themselves throughout the summer, since you published the preliminary draft amendment to Galicia's health law, it seems to me that the Health Counsellor... It's serious, Counselor. So today you have to come here because we asked you about it, not because you accept the appearance or because you come here to attend. And we called it in precisely because in August, once again, you introduced a law that is harmful to public health, or so we understand it. A law, Counsellor, as we said in the previous debate earlier this morning — in which you were, by the way, not present — which means the death of four comarcial areas: Monforte, The Boat, The Navy and The Salnes, which is the continuity of the policy that you have been practicing since you entered the Unity of Galicia. They first removed their management capacity by removing the administrations. They also removed primary care agencies. And now they give them the latest stockpiling by eliminating precisely the health areas and their planning capacity at the health level. They didn't react to the failure I assumed both outside and inside. In Madrid, you — because the Galician People's Party seems to be committed to copying Mrs Aguirre's health policy and Mr Güemes's health policy — also failed in a single area that destroyed Madrid's public health. But here you also insist and don't learn from your own experience, that of the country, that of Galicia, because you haven't taken note of the disaster that brought about the elimination of primary care agencies and the management of the county hospitals in our country. To primary care—we have debated it many times—you have cut it all these years to infinite budget, to strangular. In fact, even in these last budgets where you stand for a budget increase, primary care is always the worst stop, and that obeys your health model. No pediatricians to replace. Now, you see, there are no matrons, even though we have specialists, nurses and nurses, who don't work. You don't cover professional casualties, and the centers are falling, Counsellor. And then they also cut down the management of the areas. What happened? We have lost speed in repairs; we have lost supply services; we have lost computer services, accounting services, human resources services; we have increased bureaucracy, because every time we have to do something, it depends on the big hospital that centers depend on. In Salnes, in Monforte, in the Navy, in all the comarcal hospitals, they have been lost, in addition, services, against what you affirm continuously. And there's also insufficient personnel already historically in these centers. In the case of Salnés, we live on a strike of janitors and janitors. I don't know what you're going to do from now on in Galicia, if you're going to keep losing your staff. A lack of historical services that in addition, for example, in this center eliminated the service that was being rendered in neurology; cardiology queries decreased; there are problems in another series of services that were provided. It also happens at the Valdeorras boat, it happens at the Navy, it happens at Monforte. There are fewer specialists and less personal even nursing; there is a Monforte ratio of 28 patients per nurse and a ratio of 30 patients per nurse and nurse in Burela. And in spite of everything, you take one more step and now you decide to delete the health areas, they affect the destruction of public health. You, after the data we have just given, of your own results in Galicia and from other autonomous communities, continue to focus on that aspect, despite the fact that we have data that it has not been efficient. I said this in the morning, when you eliminated the management of the comarcial hospitals, you used a lie — the content of the data we have — to justify it. Less bureaucracy and less spending on high office -- you said. The bureaucracy has increased, because everything depends on the big hospitals. And in the case of the high office, I've already said this in the morning, according to the report of the Board of Auditors, that it's not from En Marea or any opposition group: increased spending on high offices by 9.1% since you constituted the EOXI and eliminated the administrations of the county hospitals. It was a lie, it was a fallacy, and yet you're still accusing the opposition of lying to the opposition. It's Goebbels, it's turning the reality around. Besides, Mr. Almuña, the report of the Board of Auditors says something very serious, extremely serious. It says the report of the Board of Auditors that it contains only a final report of permanent financial control in the EOXI, Pontevedra-Salnes. And that's why we don't have the data. This is a shame, Counselor, you don't audit, you don't report management of EOXI, management, and now you're going to delete areas. I mean, we don't even have reports on what they're doing at economic, social and financial levels. The Board of Auditors itself denounces it. With what data, with what legitimacy do you take measures when you can't even provide a report on the operation of EOXI since you constituted them? It's ridiculous, it's embarrassing, Counselor. What kind of management is this? And the Board of Auditors says it, we don't say it. And there's no memory of the centers either. Not only for the opposition, not even for professionals themselves to do public research. There is no access to the memory data of the centers. Where are they? Could you move them here? How do they take the measures without having data on the table? What are you hiding, Counselor? And this is a rule, Mr. Almuña, and it is very serious, too, because since we have approved the Welsh Health Law, it has not practically developed — as far as you are — the Galician Health Council. But they also now have an impact on the cut-off of social participation, and there are a lot of articles of this law that are very interesting. You delete Article 25, paragraph 3, where the composition of that Galician Health Council was transferred. It's antidemocratic, Counselor, leave it to a valuation of its own and a subsequent decree. The participation of neighboring associations disappears, the participation of universities disappears, we have to wait for you to decide to include it in a decree. Why are you getting him out of the law? Why do you have so much allergy to citizen participation? And they also delete in Article 24(2), which gave the presidency to the adviser or advisor -- I don't know if you're abandoning part of your powers. And they eliminate something that is very serious, which is access to information for members of the Galician Health Council. But you also play the area health boards. I mean, whatever decentralization, participation, democracy, you don't like it. And they delete, they charge the powers in Article 25, which described how they were articulated. Yes, from now on we are clear that they have to represent the economic interests of companies in everything that has to do with the design and participation of our public health. And there are other very interesting aspects, Counselor. You're taking out the German Research Plan. Disappear, Article 131. What's your plan? You're making it easier for the private company to enter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'd like to, we'd love to have a public investigation that brought it to the public and to the private. But to have a public research, not a private income-dependent research -- not an investigation in which you leave researchers and researchers shot. And, of course, later, in a new decree. It couldn't be any other way, because you're up against the tide of opacity. In short, Mr Counsellor — we will certainly have the opportunity to continue to discuss it because I believe that you will ignore all the claims that you are asking to withdraw from it — you, of course, have no intention of making any changes, even if you are involved. They don't listen to anyone at all, they think they're able and able to decide for all of us, and you publish this draft just when they're sitting with union centers, and not before, how they moved this morning. We'd like to know why it's like this. We'd like to know why they do it in summer, why they do it without participation, why you, with 47% votes, if you believe with the power to change everything, to withdraw the rights of the entire citizenry and to look over your shoulder to all those who say that public health isn't the People's Party, which is the whole citizenry, the Greeks and the Greeks who built it, and that from then on you have no white letter to do what you want. Remove the pre-project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u244	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Torrado, Mrs. Solla, very good morning at all. Greek society has changed a lot in recent years. The aging of the population, the chronicity, the customs, the communications, force us to modify our way of planning and performing the health service, which is most valued by the population. The law that we are going to amend has ten years of vigency, and for this period of time an update is needed to ensure and expand the public health system, in addition to continuing to seek optimal use of resources and more efficient care for patients. Furthermore, Galicia's health map was approved in 1984 and has never been fully developed. From 2010 onwards, a different way of coordinating the health services of a particular area began in Galicia: the EOXI, Organizational Structures of Integrated Management. The principle that guided us and what continues to guide us is basic: living where our citizens live, must have the same services. Primary care, basic loss of our assistance, direct coordination with the hospital, whether at the comarcal level or in the area. From the Health Council we started the procedure as a new law passed in this Parliament, Act 1/2016, in Article 9: the transparency portal. This August 2nd, we published the preliminary draft on the transparency portal, opening the deadline for formulating how many suggestions are deemed appropriate electronically, through a form enabled on the same page or through its presentation at any of the places provided for in the regulatory regulations of the administrative procedure. But besides, and to continue to introduce the draft law and collect its approaches, we held meetings with unions, with professional schools, doctors, pharmacists, nursing, veterinarians, dentists, physiotherapists, mayors and municipal spokespersons of these Sergas districts and professionals. This week, without going any further, we'll talk to the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provincials and we'll also have a meeting in the following days with the Patient Advisory Council. On 14 August, in order to ensure as much transparency and publicity as possible, we extended the deadline for submitting suggestions until 1 September, a total period of one month. I insist once again that we find ourselves in the initial phase, in which we get to know the preliminary draft law, as we have done through the legal procedures established by the Transparency and Good Government Act, publishing the preliminary draft law on the transparency portal. Once the preliminary draft, already in the form of a bill, enters Parliament, it will begin its parliamentary process, and it will be from that time on when parliamentary groups can intervene the amendments they consider necessary. The fact that I was accused of being cowardly, of presenting it earlier, is about this Parliament. We understand that this is a parliamentary debate. It is true that political parties, like any other organization or individual level, could present suggestions that they considered appropriate. Today, within the number of quite important suggestions that there have been — so many people have read that law and made allegations — the political parties have not submitted any, so I understand that those who were on vacation were the political parties or persons belonging, and not other collectives. And besides that parliamentary headquarters is where we should discuss -- I understand -- the bills, also the citizens, through the website of the Galician Parliament 'Lexisla with us', they can again think about the bills and bills that are found in this process. The pre-project meets the maximum of the guarantees of transparency and participation. The trade unions were informed on the same day that they published on the transparency portal on August 2nd, and a period was made with them that would close on September 15th so that they would present the corresponding allegations within the Bureau, and in the coming days they will also have a meeting at the Council. I repeat that we are talking about an update of Law 8/2008, of health, necessary to further improve the public health system, in addition to continuing to seek a last use of resources and more efficient care for patients. We welcome the participation of all kinds of collectives and representatives, and let all possible approaches be made to improve this draft law. I reiterate that we are in the initial phase, in the first steps, up to its last parliamentary process, with the sole aim of acquiring a legal and enriching text that results in the improvement of our health system. The regulation of aspects of the law through decree basically obeys the criteria of flexibility and flexibility when it comes to making changes and adaptations. I'm going to analyze -- because we talked very little here, actually called me attention that, when it was published on the transparency portal, at the first moment some spokesperson from some political group said that first we had to withdraw it and then they were going to study it --... I'm going to analyze, at least -- even though this will come, as I say, at a later time here in Parliament -- what is the change. I remember that, of the 137 articles in Law 8/2008, they will be changed, or if they try to change, in principle, 15 articles, and three new articles are incorporated into the creation of an interdepartmental commission with Education. The first point that is changed is that the consideration of health authority is extended to all health inspectors, as well as to the territorial heads of the Health Council. It's a theme that simply has the character of consolidating the normal exercise of the inspection within the multiple functions that the Health Council has. With regard to teaching and research, see, most of the articles on research and law 8/2008 have already been repealed by later standards, so it is necessary to articulate this by adapting it to the current situation, after the creation of the Galega Agency for Knowledge and Health Research, a body dependent on the Health Council which has unified the competences dispersed in the field of training, research and innovation. He's been working for a year, or a year and a half, and I think he's trying to do a very important job, because both training and research, and of course innovation, are the basis of our future. The third point that is being amended in this preliminary draft is that an interdepartmental committee on education and health is being set up. This commission, as I say, is new. There was a commission that continues, of social policy, for the questionable coincidences in matters between the Council of Health and those in Social Policy and Education, and that is why we believe that the aspects that we have been working on for many years must be formalized: healthy habits, the theme of being able to train students in resuscitation and resuscitation maneuvers, the theme of physical education, healthy diets. All that leads to the formation of our youth is fundamental to having an even better society and health. At point 4, if we group it into blocks, there's personnel management. And these are aspects that have been requested by union representatives; for example, the invitation to tender for transfers as a provision in the field of health centres and institutions of the public health system. A call for the transfer contest may be permanent, with its vigil over time through successive and periodic adjudication resolutions. And it also establishes the possibility for the Health Administration to define professional itineraries for employees of the Public Health System of Galicia, understanding as such the set of jobs that form an area of competences, skills, knowledge and common training that enable them to perform for staff of different categories of the health system of Galicia. All of this is, as we say, a standard that serves as a framework for us to be able to establish what is the kid of this law with the union representation and with the professionals of our system. Point 5, block 5, is territorial organization. As has been highlighted on one occasion, Galicia's health map is a strategic tool for planning and management. What is done right now with this amendment of the law is to strengthen precisely the structures and the system that was implemented in 2010, with a specific, special coordination and, of course, very important between primary and hospital care, putting into it the comarcal hospitals, with more functions and services than they had in 2009. We have created and, in addition, we have homogenized the treatment of Galician hospitals, because what the opposition does not say — if there comes a suggestion from a union center — is to create special areas for Barba, for Cee and for Verín, which today do not appear in a regulation of the Galician community as centres where they have to have hospitals. We shield absolutely all hospitals, including Cee, Barba and Verín, to give the best services, as I say, and as I said, following the basic principle for us to approach the services to the citizens. This would result in the substitution of what is currently EOXI for the "health area", which is used in most autonomous communities in Spain. There are some cases, such as the Basque Country, where they use the word OSI, similar to ours. They're still more or less, though without the degree of development that ours has. And we replaced the word "EOXI" with "healthy area", and we created the districts, 14 hospital districts, which, as I say, include those, such as Cee, The Barbary or Verín, which at no time in the Law of 2008 was considered to have a similar consideration to other hospitals. The draft draft draft law thus amended states that the Public Health System in Galicia is ordered territorially in health areas, health districts — as I say, 14 — and health areas. Within the participating bodies is also maintained the existence of the Greek health and area councils as participating bodies. But try to simplify their composition in order to make them closer to citizens and more operational. They have a lot of difficulty right now because of the large number of people who enter the law, and we understand that they must be much more flexible and certainly with a participation, in number, representative of all but, of course, that they should be operational. Because at this moment the number of councils has been more scarce. And of course also — because we always say that we try to eliminate bodies of participation — we incorporate into the law — that there was not until now within the law but if it was within our activity — the creation of the Patient Advisory Council. It's a fundamental organ in which we've been working over the past few years in a fundamental way, because we have associations of patients that are, of course, already unquestionable part of making decisions in this council. And they're going to keep growing. In fact, in the project we are developing right now, with European funds (code C), many of the ideas that provide us with patient associations throughout the autonomous community, which affect and encompass all existing pathologies. Some of them, for example, rare diseases, for years have been more distant from information and the possibility of incorporating those contents, those demands and those suggestions, and right now they can do it through that. So all the measures are measures that seek to improve the public health system in Galicia, which do not seek to create a law because we have to create a law. In the time that the People's Party has been ruling in Galicia, it has done, as it was said earlier, a law of management. The Health Act comes from the four years in which the Socialist Party ruled with the BNG. We don't want to remove the law, we think it has positive aspects. As we see here, in addition, mostly positive. Because we're going to change, or we're trying to change, a number of aspects; in number, few. But we believe that these changes will make it easier to improve our health service. And from here on, I ask all groups, the whole of society, to collaborate so that we can continue to improve this document. I will then comment on the second part, as are the suggestions and important aspects that can be made. But we're still in a process. First, there is a lot of time to get to the law's approval, and we would like, as I said before, more than talk about and try to see that there is no parliamentary debate, that there is a debate of content and that we can all get to a good end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u245	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u246	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, however, this is a debate, not a conference. It is a debate on what we are talking about. [[Applause]] If you make your own motu appearance, it would even make sense. But since you have to come because we ask you, answer what we ask. That's the parliamentary debate. Of course, if someone tells me that the political parties have a transparency portal to make claims and does not know that the political parties claim and amend in Parliament, because it is very difficult for me to understand the democratic process of processing a law. The political parties have Parliament. I know you don't like the rest of us. But for now we still have it. Anyway...! I'm glad to know, yes, that we agree that the Law of 2008 has many positive aspects. So now I'd like to know why they amended it in its entirety and voted against it. But, well, that kind of contradictions are already known as they are. Since you practically didn't actually talk about what we asked you about, and you've been missing all August, I have some issues you've raised through your municipal political groups. By the way, it was said that we wanted to regain confidence in the places where we were protesting — Mr. Núñez Centeno said. By appealing to the same democratic question of votes, you can check the municipal results where you have seriously harmed health through the comarcas hospitals. I don't think they have a lot of mayors, and that's for something. Something'll have to do with it. In any case, there in the Navy, in Lemos, in Valdeorras and in Salnes we really think it's very important that some of the things they said could be explained at least. Look, you defend a lot and tell the professionals that we attack them here when we make health alarms, and we attack professionals. Look, you guys have a mayor in Salnès, which I'm going to save a lot of money because I think everybody knows it and you know what he says. "Durán, mayor of Vilanova, blames the personnel for the flight of Salnés patients to Montecelo, and says — he claims to be a doctor, but he is mayor, he has been mayor for many years — that the optionals are smarter than politicians." Interesting debate. I don't know if he considers himself optional or political, I don't know how you think he is, which is optional and political. Those we are not optional already know that we are, as he says, literally "dumbs." He also says: "The population is not happy with the service of the Salné Hospital, and the professionals are paying bad attention to the neighbors." I'd beg you to disqualify these statements. Either they're in favor or they're against. Mr. Núñez, I know you're in favor, because yesterday he met with him. And Mrs. Marta Rodríguez is also in favour, because yesterday she met with him. He's the PP's spokesman in the county, no one talks about the county. So his spokesman in the Salnés district says that professionals are very bad, and that people like this EOXI because Salnés professionals are very bad. And so they have the results they have elsewhere. In any case, I think it's very interesting that we can keep responding to some things. You also usually say, in respect of this preliminary draft, that the comarcial hospitals will be shielded by this law. I like this for hospitals to get stuck in law. On May 23, 2017, not long ago, an ILP was debated about Montecelo's hospital. I read to him, "It's not the legal framework for us to define geographically the location of infrastructures, and much less health services." At that time the law was not a legal instrument to shield, or to protect, hospitals. Now yes, since May 2017. It didn't take them long to argue. We can discuss with Mr. Jacobo Moreira, who made these statements right here, who actually discusses quite a bit of what you say. I know you were worth one thing in May and now another. I know they weren't worth the law of 2008 before, and now they're good at it. Six changes, eh! It's not like now they're going to change it and we've been working with it for so long. Six! That's actually quite curious. I also read that, thanks to the implementation of EOXI, 22,000 more surgeries have been performed since 2009. He said himself throughout the Council several times, and for many of his mayors. It's funny, and I'd like you to explain to me how it could have been 22,000 more surgeons in all of Galicia since 2009, but I suppose in all hospitals. Or they lied when they were giving that data, they're giving it to the municipalities, or it's quite true that all the new surgeries that have been done since 2009 have been done in the comarcas and none in the other hospitals, which I understand not. But, in any case, we still think that this about inconsistencies and giving data that are lies must be all chance. The staff. You're saying that now we're going to be able to have staff in the comarcas coming from the central hospitals or general hospitals, from the hospitals of the big cities. What he doesn't say is they can go backwards, which is usually what was going on with the EOXI. You want to break the rights of the staff, Counsellor, to break their rights. They're going to tell you where they have to work every morning, regardless of whether it's in a hospital that's on either side. And usually experiences say they're going to be taken to larger hospitals. And so those people who live away from large hospitals are going to have a loss of services. That's what's gonna happen. What's really going on? That you want to empower large hospitals and lose services to others because they seem less important to you. The dependence of hospitals on others is inefficient. You're being inefficient. Of course, you are inefficient in health care, because then, to decide healthily in this country, you meet with builders to see if private hospitals and hospital managers who, well, want to get in. It's known that health is a very interesting thing for private business. And those are the ones who define the health of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u248	So listen to us for a moment and sit down and talk. I know you didn't want to come to this Parliament, we know you didn't want to explain anything. I've already told him he's wasted his time being brave, but at least he can talk about things. Remember: the political parties claim here, but we want dialogue first; not with the unions, who were not — three minutes or four may be —. The cuts they're making and the dependence on hospitals is inefficient, and he's very sorry. Agustín Hernández told him: you must have a little more soul to rule.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u249	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u250	Therefore, Counselor, withdraw the preliminary draft, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u251	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u252	Thank you, President. Well, Counselor, what are we left with? Did August 14 extend the deadline as a gift or was there a special deadline until 15th for the unions? I don't think you agree. There was no specific deadline for unions — i.e., the time limit for allegations was what you published — nor was it a gift that you extended the time limit for claims or guaranteed transparency. The problem is that there was already the preliminary draft in the public opinion, the protests of the union headquarters, the protests of the parties and the protests of the health areas. And that's why, in the face of the increase in the allegations, which were precisely in obedience to these protests, you extended that deadline. It's not a gift, nor is it based on the guarantee of transparency. If you wanted to ensure transparency, you would have previously debated, publicly in an open dialogue, the modification of one of the most relevant rules. Because for us — or at least for the Members and Members we work on health — health is a basic thing, the health system is a basic one, and it also coincides that 40% of the budget of the Autonomous Community corresponds to the Health Council. But you don't do it for a matter of transparency, you use that, yes, many euphemisms usually: flexibility, updates, transparency... here we're all adults, we're all bigger. I would pray that we were somewhat honest and that you answered the questions that were raised in the interpellation. If you wanted to improve staff conditions, I wonder why they haven't fulfilled their own law for all these years, which says there has to be a public job offer for all categories. Start over there, start off getting your professional career back. You're talking about the need to modify articles in innovation because some of them were already obsolete. But nowhere does it appear that you had to suppress the German Research Plan. What's your research plan? I'll ask you again. You speak quite euphemistically about the special coordination between comarcas and large hospitals. It's special. It is getting worse, increasingly bureaucratic, with less and less services, with more and more problems for every time a problem needs to be solved in comarcas hospitals — fundamentally computerized, essentially maintenance, essentially damaged equipment. You don't know what problems staff has been reporting in recent years, in the last five years, since you've deleted these agencies. And you're talking about simplifying participation. Please!, do you think we're going to swallow the excuse as they thought we were going to swallow the excuse that removing the agency was done to reduce bureaucracy and high charges, when at the end the result is the opposite? If you wanted to simplify participation, you'd be included in the legal text that you're proposing what the composition is going to be. And I remind you that the legal text that indicates right now is that everything will take place in subsequent decrees. You decide, only you, by decree. This is how the People's Party government governs. And, please, when you want to talk about prevention, health promotion, remember first that you cut 21% of the primary care budget and 18% of the public health promotion and protection budget. There is no prevention and promotion of health without professionals in primary care. Are you worried? You worry about nurses and community nurses. He's worried about retiring primary care professionals who retire. He's concerned about primary care and prevention research. They don't worry about it, but it's easier to introduce it here with euphemism, with a new organ, that you're not going to make it work for anything practical because you haven't been able since 2008 to effectively put all the health boards in the area. And that's also your responsibility. Now he's been cutting us off, but they've been let to annoy them before. And about the health areas, since you don't answer the questions of the inquiry, I'd like you to answer what I moved here. If there is no data — even the Board of Auditors — about financial management, if we don't have memories of the centres, then answer with what data and based on what information you decide to delete four health areas and substantially modify our public health. No information. Are you two getting up in the morning with an occurrence? Or where do they get the data? Why does no one have access, not even the Board of Auditors? Why don't we know how your management works in hospitals, within the administrations? At least answer something, to confirm, of course, that you have a faulty and extremely opaque management, Counselor. I'm done, because I'm done. I ask you to answer that and move why you have to do things without participation, why you fear participation, why you don't make data easy. And since they're, seeing if once and for all they already make it easy on the waiting lists, and we know once and for all they're going to increase, even more than the Board of Auditors says, what they're going to pay to the private, who's asking, through these lobbys, that you can reduce the waiting list by giving it more money than we're already providing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u254	Counsellor, once again, please, at the request of the trade unions, of the parties and of the citizen collectives, withdraw the preliminary draft.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Closure of this plea, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I'm surprised. First, I'm told that I'm a coward, that I'm not able to come to Parliament, and then they say that the project, the project, and that we don't debate it in Parliament. I believe in the debate, honestly. Look, I'm going to talk about some of the keys that are also used on the question of staff, health care. By the way, Mr. Torrado, I'm not going to talk about people who aren't here in the room. I, when I talk about someone concrete, I hope you're present so that you can answer me and tell me whether it's true or not what you're saying. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] About our professionals, we have a high level, at the level of the Council of Sergas. And, of course, they've been doing a great job for many years to make this service the best service rated by all citizens. Look, I repeat again that with this amendment it seeks to strengthen the role of the comarcas hospitals and shield both their existence and their structure. In this way, both hospital staff and quality health care for citizens, which is guaranteed. In no case is the current system of temporary recruitment changed, which is also sometimes known — I believe for bad information — to the collectives, since professionals can continue to record exactly as they are now — in this case in the district — as was already done in Barbados, in Cee and in Verín without being sanitary areas. There is no novelty in the provision of squares systems, and the free designation will remain of exceptional application, as it is so far. The new management will improve the management of Sergas' human resources in each territory, which will result in greater proximity of health services to citizenship. Professionals will no doubt remain connected to the area and will maintain their original destiny. I'm also telling you -- Mrs Solla said -- the theme of the OPE squares. We're still working at the OPE. We are of the few autonomous communities — now that we are reviewing it with the others — that we continue to make OPE regular every certain time, every very little time. And many autonomous communities, from 2009 to today, have not done any OPE. So we're going to keep working that way. And I also say that we would like to continue to count on the debate, as I said before, with the suggestions and improvements that this law will probably have throughout all the procedure we have to do. The receipt so far has been around 1,579 — and I say "around" because there is still an evaluation and there is probably something that is repeated. I think it's a good participation to say it was a little operational month. I think it's an important participation, probably of the most important participation. It was said that the previous law, the one in 2008, received less suggestions. Well, this procedure didn't exist. There were other subsequent proceedings, but this procedure, the first procedure, did not exist. And it has to be said that most of them are asking, as is said here — about all those linked to some trade union organisations — for withdrawal without more, without proposing anything effective. However, if there are suggestions that we're valuing and we think they're going to be incorporated, because it's true that there are people who bring improvements. I was also saying that I believe that the intervening parties themselves believe in the current model. Because the biggest criticism is that it's irregular, that the number of services is irregular according to the county hospitals. They mean there are services, there are many services, but they're different in one place and another. We're talking about a model that we want to consolidate and further expand. When Mrs. Solla says that there are fewer services right now than before, I have to say — and I think the people in the area know the hospital — that in Valdeorras in 2012 there was none of the specialties, which were performed by people who came from the Ourense hospital to the Barco, there was none. Sorry, there were three, in 2012 there were three; and right now there are ten, ten specialties. In Monforte there was none and now there are four. Offsets avoided from 2012 to today are more than 263,000. We avoid people living in the area of comarcas being in their area and being cared for by specialists from the other hospital there. We are still, of course, increasing not only the specialties that come from other hospitals, but also creating new but new services. Home hospitalization is already widespread in Galicia, in all areas. The last ones were Verín and Monforte. Obviously in 2009, for example, they didn't exist. On the day hospital sessions in 2009, no day hospital sessions were held. We are currently at 21,000 day hospital sessions in the comarcas hospitals. Interventions grew about 13%, 3,176 more. That's the model we're defending, that people, finding where they are, can get the best services. And also, of course, we have to have reference services, large hospitals, which are supplicating what was done until very few years ago, which was the activity we had to do in Madrid or Barcelona. We're minimizing that everyone in our autonomy can solve. Technology, investments, how can we say we're ending up with comarcal hospitals? By the way, the same voices that say today that we're going to end the comarcal system, already said in 2009. We spent these years and none of that happened. But how can you say that when you've invested, both in works and in technology and instrumentation, more than 18 million since the year 2012? Or how we're going to continue to intervene in the next few years, following an important investment. In Burela we're in phase one, but there's phase two. We're going to totally improve everyone, as well as health centers. It's not true that health centers fall. We just have an increasingly complete network of new centers, not only the building, but more importantly the services. We continue to work from here, from the Council, and we call for the support of all parliamentary groups to make the best law of health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u257	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u258	Good afternoon. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's half past now. The schedule is the schedule. Let's resume the session with agenda item 7, from questions to the Government. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece in relation to the deficiencies in the functioning of the judicial system due to the lack of resources, in particular in the discharge of the fight against gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u259	Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u260	Good morning. We have already moved on to other times questions and proposals related to the lack of resources in the entire Administration of Justice, but today we want to reflect on the situation that is taking place in the wake of the struggle against male violence. And for us there are two examples that happened this summer that seem particularly serious to us and that we think they are very significant of the situation in which we find ourselves, which are the following. The first one — which has already been commented even today this morning — is the decision of the Ministry of the Interior not to appoint staff substitutes in the remainder of this year, which obviously had an impact on the quality of the judicial service in general. But for us, the situation in which the Court of Gender Violence of the Crown remained in August is particularly serious. I think there is an agreement, which is that all of us here understand that attention to macho violence requires specialized training and requires specific protocols. That's why we understand that the supposed solution to this problem that functions were assumed by a guard judge doesn't solve the situation in the Coruña. Many were the collectives and the people who made this situation manifest, but we missed statements or looked for more visible solutions by the Galician Union. And we don't understand how the only statements that were made in this regard were made on August 17, which, to begin with, is quite later, weeks later, that the problem had been put in place. They were statements made by yourself. And all that was said was that you were having conversations with the Minister of Justice to assign magistrates substitutes and that you trusted that it would be so. Well, we saw this didn't happen. And we understand that, when the Government met this first-hand situation, what it had to do, even though obviously it was not his competence, was to demand and contact the Government immediately, not on August 17, but very beforehand — which I suppose they would already do — in order to especially influence this situation to be resolved. This situation is in addition to another situation which also seems to us to be serious, although it has passed a little more unnoticed, which is that the judge who specializes in gender-based violence of Vigo asked for a majority support person in June to analyze the high number of cases of masquerading violence that he has to deal with, because of the grave danger in which the lives of these women are in danger. A situation that has not been answered either. I think you know the overload of work that exists in these judges. You also know that in summer, unfortunately, far from being a period in which macho violence descends, there's usually a pickup for something very obvious, which is that there's more time of coexistence, so there's usually a pickup. And the data was there to be able to deal with it. In March this year, it was found that there was a 9% recommendation for gender-based violence in Galicia and that in July it became even 16%. We talked about 219 more demands than in the same quarter of 2016, and we understood that we had to find a solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Quinteiro, there is indeed a system for replacing judges and providing means for the administration of justice within the legal system, which is what we respect. I say it because Mr. Villares is here. Of course, the legal order, if you respect it, you respect it for everything. It's not good for some things yes and for other things no. With which, this system, which can be broken according to the convention, is what it also covers that the necessary means can be provided for the administration of justice to function. By the way, it's not for the Ministry of the Interior -- I suppose it's a mistake you made and you didn't realize it -- it's for the Ministry of Justice, which we've been in touch with since the beginning. By the way, I fully agree that to work on a trial of gender-based violence, to work on all orders and criminal jurisdictions, in all trials, but especially in gender-based violence, specialization is desirable. But I'm sure you know what we're talking about is that the problem is that, speaking of a substitute judge, the substitute judge doesn't solve the problem of specialization. We're talking about another kind of solution, a more permanent solution. That's exactly why the guarantee is that, when a vacancy occurred, a one-month vacancy -- it certainly occurred every year, and indeed, this is the first year in which the replacement of the judge is not produced -- in a year when his replacement was not appointed, what was done was what is done in all judicial orders. And Mr. Villares needs to know perfectly, because the legal order — whether he respects or does not respect it as appropriate — is what he considers to be other fellow judges of that judicial party, when possible, those who make the replacement. So this is what should be done when a replacement is not named. The specific problem arose on August 11th, which is when the person's holiday took place, the judge holding the General Court of Corruption Violence. I had already spoken to the Minister of Justice a long time earlier — on July 26, he was in person, and not in person, who had no opportunity to be with him personally — and I already conveyed to him the need to face this problem, and not only with regard to gender violence. Especially there, but also in other courts where vacancies could occur. He told me he was in conversation with the High Court of Justice. And that's where we have to deal with it. It's just, about what the Galician Union has to do, I don't agree at all... because here are very irresponsible statements. You have come to say that the Court of General Violence of the Crown was closed. You said it. So I say that I think it's a good news for all who file complaints, because I'm sure there's a lot of situations to report and they're not reporting. But it means that there is more awareness, that women dare and know that they have a way out. So I say: what would women think of reporting their situation when they see that you say the judge is closed, when they tell them that they can't do anything because, if they go there, no one will answer them, when that's absolutely a lie? And let's start to be serious about this, and don't make opportunisms or tell half-truths or say they have to solve things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u263	Thank you, thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u264	...administrations that are doing their part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u266	You know, I'm sure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u267	Thanks, time's up. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u268	...that the prolonged days of violence from January to June of Galicia are taking care of them from the beginning. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u269	He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u270	...they can't lie and they're lying, like with respect to the legal order, whether they meet or not according to their convenience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u271	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u272	The first one is that you're very concerned about the subject and that's why you've used two out of three minutes to talk about other problems and try to confuse. We're talking about a specific question where you probably don't have much interest, because your answer to me seems outrageous. [[Applause]] Indignant to say you've already spoken to the Minister of Justice. For what? To wait, because time has passed and there is no solution. So I'd say irresponsible is not that the opposition makes statements to put more measures to fight against macho violence. Irresponsible that the administrations that are governing don't put the resources and the means that women in this country need so they don't keep dying. That's irresponsible and not the statements made by the opposition. [[Applause]] And by the way, it changes words and minds, because we didn't say the Crown judge was closed. We said that what was being done was the worst quality of attention, that we demanded specialized attention in the trial and that the magistrate should be replaced so that the overload of the guard's trial would not have negatively affected these women who are going to report. So, trying to sell or demagogicly say that the opposition makes women not to report, that is, it's opportunistic. Because we brought here a question, in a tone, in addition, quite a conciliatory one—it was you who suddenly began to attack the opposition—for a matter that is important, which concerns the feminist groups, the College of Lawyers, who is concerned about the Observatory of Gender Violence, the Government of the Crown. And you gave no answer. And besides, it's pretty ridiculous that they talk about the Minister of Justice as if it had nothing to do with you, when whoever rules in the Spanish state is the same People's Party that rules in the Galician Union. So it's even more ridiculous to talk about a relationship as if they had nothing to do with it. They're together at conventions, sit down with them, get to know each other and tell me that he couldn't tell you anything to replace this person in Galicia. A little more to say. The truth is, I am particularly concerned that every time a topic is brought against the violence of the Machist people, they come out with this way of answering. That's opportunistic, and then they're going to sell state pacts, they're going to sell that they want to fight against macho violence, while they're still cutting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u274	...and while they keep closing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u276	Mrs. Quinteiro, closing, the subconscious: closing, closing!... If it's... look, first they've already said it; second, just repeat it. [[Applause]] If that's what they want to translucent! If the miss is that dangerous and lying message, and so risky for women who try to report and who are thinking they're going to take care of them badly, don't go! [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It is discouraging, when what we have to do — of course, is being done by the Galician Administration and should do so by all political parties — it is encouraging that complaints are raised, which is appropriate. Now, you ended up in the same irresponsible manner as you started. Tell me I'm talking to you about other things. To speak of disrespecting the legal system is no other matter, Mrs. Quinteiro. That's the basis for everything, is that if we don't respect the legal system, we don't have a system to solve these situations. And of course I talked to the minister and of course I told him there was a serious situation, which I already knew perfectly well. And the minister explained his reasons to me, and I told him what I thought about those reasons. I told him that, of course, the Galician Union was going to fulfill its commitments. And we have daily extensions in all judges who attend to gender-based violence; of course, in specifics; of course, in cities and, of course, in those who have a volume that makes it convenient. We're doing it, and it costs a lot of money, well-employed. Of course, you don't say that because then if you undo the speech of the collapse, of the cuts, of the closure!, as it's over. And they can't make the political speech with a subject they shouldn't do politics. And that's what there is. [[Murmurs.]] You do politics on this subject all the time, within the legal order that they are like a chip, that they break when it suits them, and when it suits them, they appeal to him. Well, we'll always appeal, with data, with knowledge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u277	Silence! Mrs. Quinteiro, silence, it's not in the use of the word. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u278	Look, this is so absurd that I could ask you — following your absurdity that the legal order is other matters — listen, and the mayor of the Crown, why didn't you solve the problem, if it's so easy to solve for an administration that has no competition? Why didn't he appoint a replacement? Because he can't, because what he has to do is talk to the Ministry of Justice. Did you? Don't! Let the Galician Union speak and, if the Galician Union cannot solve the problem, there is already Mrs Quinteiro and the Power Tides in Parliament to say that the PP does absolutely nothing. And this is the perfect circle of legal order that you respect or don't respect as appropriate. Mrs. Quinteiro, I think, just as you finished your intervention, he's perfectly portrayed himself. A little more responsibility, a little more helping out and a little less politics with gender-based violence! I know it's impossible for you, because for you politics is everything and the important issues are the least, and the legal order is just other things that you don't need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u279	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about whether the Government of Galicia shares that the fight against violence against the masculine must light up the policies of all governments
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u280	Whenever you want, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u281	Thank you, President. The truth is it's very sad and very sad that a Vice President of the Board ends his intervention saying "for you politics is everything and important matters are something else." That a Vice-President of the Galician Council in the Galician Parliament has just said this is too regrettable. Because politics, Mr. Vice President of the Union, is not dirty. [[Applause]] Perhaps for some of that bench, I don't say all those who are there, not even some in particular or some people in concert, but perhaps for that party, for those who are prosecuted in Madrid for corruption, it might be that for some of them it's a dirty thing. But for those of us on this side, it's the only way we can change things and change the world. [[Applause]] I don't know why, but I'm going to ask the same question Mrs. Quinteiro just asked. Unfortunately, you're going to have to answer the same thing you said to her, or something like that. I did say that the Court of General Violence of the Coruña was closed for holidays. I was personally the one who said it, but I did a similar to the movies... [[Murmurs.]] President, I wish I could explain. I made a simile, a metaphor, with the films and the series in which, when the door closes, it turns around and says, "I'll be back in five minutes." That was how my press round began after the domestic violence observatory was the one who went out to the lecture waiting for you, who had already spoken, by the way, to the minister on July 26th and even long before, to give some explanation to the judge himself-holder of the Court of General Violence of the Crown, who took the holidays on August 13th, and who follows vacations because he still does not enter until tomorrow. So I take that sentence, but it was a metaphorical phrase. Perhaps, as Galician Television often shortens the opposition's interventions, you didn't see the full tape to know what it was said. [[Applause]] It may also be that the Minister of Justice, who on July 27th — right the next day of speaking to you — had LexNET fallen and had five cyberattacks that made the system not work, was concerned about important things rather than gender politics and violence. That's possible, too. That I'll tell you you don't know! For, by the way, you've just told us that you know everything about the trial of violence. This court of violence in the Coruña, one of the two in specialized Galicia, attended last year around 1,200 complaints, the highest since 2009. He's settled around 1,200 criminal and civil affairs, Mr. Vice-President. It's not just criminal matters. In violence, in particular, since the Socialist Party has amended legislation, criminal matters are also resolved precisely to be given to these women, who not only have to file complaints in court, they also go to the police station, to the Civil Guard and to the autonomic police, not only in the court do they file their complaints...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u283	They have to take care of both things. Then I'll continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u285	Mrs. Vilan, I didn't know it was you. I'm disappointed. Because at least I'm talking to a party that in principle respects the legal system. I suppose, I suppose, unless you correct me and surprise me even more than I've just been surprised. [[Laughter]] So it was you who said that the judge was closed, that it was actually what went out on the headline. That's right, if a woman who's thinking about reporting this reads it and then goes to the news body -- in the agencies that reflected it -- she would see that what she was doing was a simile with a movie. Of course! then the women who are in a very delicate situation already deepen as you deepen, have that fine irony that you have of fine politics, and then they know that this headline is the least because you were doing it was a very lucky, very little risky and very useful simile for women who are thinking where to go. Noraboa, Mrs. Vilán, noraboa! [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] If any woman who was thinking about reporting has gone back because she read it to you, congratulations, you'll be very quiet. And look, yes, I repeat it and I explain it: the partisan politics that you do is absolutely nothing, it's not worth anything, it's not worth anything. And I'm going to explain it with an example: party politics, which depends on who does it, is to put it all out and scandalize itself; but if they do it to me, then you have to be quiet. "The Workers' Union of the Andalucian Administration of Justice denounced yesterday..." — News of 8 August... Oh, well, of course, it's here. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, gender violence is a local problem, it's a local problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you realize what party politics is, "don't you give me an example that would hurt me to break the party speech?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh That's the policy I don't like. [[Applause]] "The Workers' Union of the Andalucia Justice Administration denounced yesterday" — I insist, 8 August of this year — "that the Court of Gender Violence in Cordoba is desisted because it does not cover the vacancy of the incumbent judge, which has been taking place during the holiday period of this holder for years, without the Ministry or Board of Andalusia doing anything at all". Do you know what's going on? Do you know what the Andalusian Board said? Well, what you have to say, is that the competition of the Andalusian Board... and I don't know, but I hope that yes -- I'm not going to do partisan politics here -- I hope you do everything you can, which is what you're doing to the Galician Board, which is to reinforce the work of the officials who are of your competence. Of course, the People's Party didn't say anything there, because the People's Party doesn't make partisan politics. There the Andalusian Board didn't say anything... of course, because it doesn't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, well, I get more and more reason.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u286	Quiet, please! Let's finish this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u287	I say again what I said to Mrs. Quinteiro: forget politics that is useless, which is the policy that you do in fundamental matters. Be a little more rigorous, because there are women and complicated situations that are not to interpret their ironies and work with elbows with us here, which is what is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u288	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u289	Well, apart from being regrettable that you consider politics to be a dirty thing, besides it's not a movie star, nor is it too supportive to watch TV series on platforms like Netflix. Now I understand why for you culture had to have 21% VAT and not a lower VAT. It's also quite regrettable. Mr. Vice President of the Union, the Coruña and Vigo, the judges of gender violence in the Coruña and Vigo, the headlines, the holder of Vigo and the holder of the Coruña, also protested to you, the Government of the Union, for the situation in their trials, because they do not have enough personal means, because they do not have enough material means, because they have a few hours that end in the afternoon when they are not on duty, every day. They have hours that often end at 8 p.m. in court, from 9.30 a.m. or 10 a.m. That's their usual situation; not on vacation, but on vacation. And you know that the Head of Court asked the Ministry of Justice for a replacement, and they didn't listen to him. It's not that they didn't listen to him, that they told him not because they had already finished with the funds in June -- 106%, that they had already exhausted him -- and that, therefore, there was not going to be a replacement not only for those judges but for any other trial in Galicia. The truth is, it's very sad that today, we approve a non-legislative proposal by unanimity of this House to demand more means from the Ministry of Justice, you come here with this chulesque attitude to tell us that from this side we are party politics and that it is absolutely useless for nothing. Because there are many Greeks and many Greeks, thousands of Greeks and Greeks, who vote for us and deserve respect. One thing is that I don't care about myself and the other thing is that I don't care about those people who voted for the PSdEG and the rest of the opposition and don't have them. [[Applause]] I'm not going to ask you the question, because I know you're going to answer that you don't share that gender-based violence policy is part of the education of your policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan, your time is up. To close this question, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u291	Mrs. Vilan, you won't ask me the question because you're afraid of the answer, whatever... He didn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If in the end it was the least, it was the least of the question. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm going to answer the question even though he didn't ask me, because if you've dedicated yourself to talking about other things, about Netflix and so on... now my problem and the problem of women who are planning to report in the court of the Crown is not to see Netflix. So, we don't understand it to you, which is a great cinematic, a great visionary of series, and then you see Netflix and it's very illustrated, and you can afford to make that series of comparisons. Get down on the ground and get to the level of people, which may not be so filmed or illustrated, and think they need clearer references, Mrs. Vilan, more clear. And so look, I'm going to tell you again: 14 extensions of the day in the trials of gender-based violence, apart from many others, up to 80, in other judicial orders. That's the commitment of the Galician Union to fight against gender-based violence, apart from many other things. We're talking about the legal issue, we could talk about a lot more if you asked me. But neither does he care much about these issues, and therefore only when there is a timely situation in the Coruña are we here -- not asking, because you didn't ask, but I do reply. We talk about this much more, we talk about the constant commitment, we talk about the commitment of all administrations. Because this isn't just about the Galician Union. If it were the business of the Galician Union, I'd tell you that, look, what we can do about officials who are neither lawyers of the administration of justice nor judges nor prosecutors because we're already doing it, we're giving them more days. Of course I don't like what the Ministry did. If not, why was there unanimity here after the amendments introduced by the People's Party today in the vote that was made? Because we're telling the Ministry of Justice that much more needs to be done, that these situations must be covered, that much more effort must be made. That's exactly why I'm glad of the consensus. I agree that you just broke up, as always, when there is no argument: that if we are a pimp, we despise everyone... No, no, no, at all, Mrs. Vilan! What happens is that you, when there's no argument, start telling us we're partisans, we don't know what's going on. And it's all the opposite. I'll say it again and I won't get tired of repeating it: I'd like to talk about gender-based violence not only when there's a timely situation that you think you're going to have revenue. To such an extent you believe that you gave that demolition, liar and absolutely irresponsible headline. And he comes here and he gets proud, because then they explain it to us all. Well, no one understands this more than you do, that he did understand it when he said he didn't regret it. That I think a little if he repented, what happens is that here he had to say... Ah! well, nothing, if you don't regret saying it publicly, going to a press round and saying "This trial is closed," closed!, it's like saying to everyone who wants to come that it's closed, that they don't come here, that they're discouraged, that they give up all hope. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the message you move. That's party politics. Look, I'm glad, because you don't rule in Galicia -- they won't govern, I suppose, this way, in a long time -- that your colleagues in Andalusia, at least, I suppose, were up to it. Of course, Andalusia's PP did stand up, because, knowing that this situation took place in Galicia for a year... because they don't know — said Mrs Noela, in that respect that she has those who support mostly in Galicia, which is the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u293	Look, I'm glad the People's Party of Andalusia was up to it. And I hope that the Andalusian Board, at least in this, had been up to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u294	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons for the delay in the adoption of measures on the sale of tickets by the shipping companies carrying out the transport of passengers to the Cyes Islands
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u295	Mr. Losada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u296	Mr. President, I want to start with my guilt. I'll talk about politics. It's a little perversion I have, but I'm going to talk about politics. [[Laughter]] I want to start by saying that the Socialists are radically supporting the environmental protection of the Cyes Islands and the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. I say it to avoid bad interpretations. And I also want to frame the question methodologically. Ignorance, inability and bad faith. I think that's the element in which the actions of the German Government have been moved on this subject. The German Government received the powers of the Natural Park of the Atlantic Islands in June 2008. In April 2009, less than a year later, Mr Feijóo arrived at the Government. And from there, in fact, there was an obligation to monitor and control. There was a one-year deadline for developing the Master Plan for Use and Management of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands — one year, and we're in 2009. President Feijóo himself acknowledged that they were unable to reach agreements to approve the document. They were incapacitated, especially because in 2011 — that is, two years later, one year out of date — they presented a traffic to the affected sectors, or you take it. That's what this absolute majority of them represent exclusively in the German country. And, of course, there were rejections and protests, because the economic sectors concerned legitimately wanted that economic activities of some kind, especially those linked to the traditional exploitation of resources, should be guaranteed within this environmental conservation policy. From 2011, the German Government literally lowered the Persian, no longer heard of the Plan Rector of the Atlantic Islands. There is a sponsor who is presided over by a person appointed by the People's Party who seems neither he nor he is expected, because he has said absolutely nothing about it. I insist, six years, literally, on the freezer. I'm sure Mrs. Counsellor and Mr. President of the Board know that, without an approved rector plan, the National Park of the Atlantic Islands cannot submit its candidacy as the heritage of humanity to UNESCO. We seem to disagree with the Counselor and me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, that's part of the debate. But the Cyastic Islands alone, with a unique protection plan, they could do it. This is the first incompetence. The second has to do with something that all of us in Vigo — and there are some Members and Members in this Parliament who have lived there — we have known for years that it was the sale of tickets for the transport of passengers to the Cyes Islands, which has a limit of 2,200 passengers per day and 800 overnights. Never, ever, the patronage presided over by Mr. Garrido Valenzuela said nothing about this survival. Never, not a word — at least in public, perhaps in private itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u297	Thank you, Mr. Losada. With all due respect, I think he did a bit of a motivational exposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u298	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u299	With all due respect, uh, with all due respect. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u300	Well, even if you didn't have a chance to ask the question, I'll try to answer it, president. Thank you very much. Your Honor, the truth is, after listening to your intervention, and even the statements that have been made public through the media, allow me to tell you that I have serious doubts about the Socialist Party being in favour of the protection of nature, and in particular of the protection of the Cyes Islands. I have my doubts. What I do understand is that the Atlantic islands are the most important natural bulwark and relevance of our autonomous community. That's how it was declared, as you know very well, as a national park in 2002. And indeed, you also said in your speech in writing, that nonverbal, that preservation, protection and dissemination, and even dissemination, is the responsibility of the Council of Galicia. As it cannot be otherwise, we are absolutely committed to all of this that I have just spoken about: to preserve it, to protect it, to disseminate it and even, of course, to protect the safety of all those who visit the islands. But I would point out again — you said very well — that it is the competence of the Union and no other administration, because it is the Union that pays pay the payrolls to the workers, because it is the Union that preserves its habitat — even by investing EUR 700,000 per year in the National Park of the Atlantic Islands — because it is the Union that makes the dissemination and awareness-raising campaign of a sustainable tourism and not another government, and because it is the Union that, in some way, placed on the map of the world the islands Cíes, Ons, Sálvora and Cortegada as a natural paradise and also as a sustainable tourism point. And thanks to the work of this Joint that you call incompetent and, above all, specifically, thanks to the work of the workers of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, this national park of the islands has different distinctions, including the Startup, UNESCO certificate, or even the Observer label, which is of scientific tourism, or most important, the European Charter of Sustainable Tourism, which was reached just a year ago, or the OSPAR certification, of protection of the marine environment. Finally, international certifications granted by UNESCO that come to ratify exactly the opposite of everything you say. And it's just so bad that we shouldn't be doing it either in the matter of protection or in the matter of disclosure. Even, indeed, we are now making progress in the declaration as well of cultural interest on the island of Salvora, which, although it does not know, is also part of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands and which, in fact, complements this candidature already submitted by the Government of Galician Union the heritage of humanity of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. The only candidacy, for now, has been put on a standstill, for which, Mr. Losada, it is not necessary to have the plan rector. Because if you know the processing of a human heritage, you know it takes at least two years, at least to have that classification. And, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u301	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u302	...we'll have the opportunity to present that Rector Plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u303	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u304	Thank you, President. The truth is that I am surprised that the People's Party is now the adalid of environmental protection. Counsellor, nothing better than putting speakers on Corrubedo to celebrate Environmental Day with music up in a ZEPA area you and the president of the board. You know what I'm talking about, don't you? [[Applause]] See, in 2016, with a sale of known, public and notorious tickets, 5 fines and 30,000 euros. I mean, the ships in two days paid the fines, in two days of negotiation, they paid the fines, the first question. The second question, Counsellor: who ordered not to land 2,000 people who were on five ships, which, of course, would be much easier not to let them embark on Vigo? You were looking for a photo of organizational chaos, Counselor. And they lie so much that Mr. President said he had no record of the Council of Galicia that the Vigo Council and other institutions were promoting the candidacy of the Cys Islands to the heritage of humanity. He was present in 2015 in Fitur, in the stand of Turkmenistan, with the presence of the representative of the Galician Union, Mrs. Bravo Bosch. Yes, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'm not going to argue with you, as you'll understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And by the way, people's security is absolutely vital, said by their corresponding CEO. By the way, you walked those two days through Salvora, through Sanxenxo; finally, you were doing a tour of the Rías Baixas absolutely legitimate. But, of course, he was not able to face the city of Vigo, which is where it seems that there was a small problem of 2,000 people who bought the ticket, which in many cases had come from other parts of Spain, even from abroad, and that some were unable to board the ships and others, I repeat it because this can't deny me again — on a boat in the middle of the creek that they couldn't even land in Vigo, because there were other ships, and not to land on the islands of Cíes. You were looking for the Cys Islands to pass from leisure and tourism pages to events pages, Counselor. And that's bad faith, at least it's bad faith. [[Applause]] And, therefore, the question you didn't answer me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u305	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u306	...because I'm sure you can read, I'd be grateful if you answered me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u307	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Lock Turn, Counsellor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u308	You, who at one time also had the responsibility of government and know what a execution is, do you really think announcing is the same thing to do? Do you really think saying "I'll do" is the same thing to do? [[Murmurs.]] Today, and after that announcement of what you were talking about — you say so much that this is a propaganda government — since 2015 what has been done by the Vigo Council in relation to that which you say you are concerned about, that it is to declare the heritage of humanity? Nothing! Nothing! For a document that is now before the Ministry of Culture, which is in its process to declare as the heritage of humanity the entire National Park of the Atlantic Islands, and, of course, to exercise my powers. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And among my powers, Your Honor, as Environmental Counsellor, is not controlling the exits on the docks -- in this case, a state pier -- but protecting the entry into the island. What I am competent is precisely the control of the entry of the island and, of course, I am also competent precisely to preserve the safety of visitors to the Atlantic islands. And that's precisely why, because we couldn't manifestly consent to what was being done from the ships, which was, if the coupon is 2,000 people — 2,200 in particular — to reach 8,000 people, as if it had arrived in one day. And thank you, by the way, Mr. Losada, for the work of the vigilantes of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, who for three days in August have been able to detect those irregularities that have been made known; that, of course, they will now have the consequence of a sanctioning file that I can assure you, Mr. Losada, that will be exemplizing — so that you will not have the opportunity to reproach us, as you do in these other sanctions. But, of course, it will be taken forward and will also be paired with another action that I can also announce to you for this month of October, that PRUG for which you are demanding, which you know — I suppose — its complexity because, indeed, it affects the entire society around the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, not only the Vigo Town Hall, but the rest of the municipalities and even the sea. It will be presented in October so that it can be discussed with the whole sector. We don't apply the roll here, it's not about most. In fact, if it's not a reality, it's precisely because, by discussing it with the sea sector, in particular, we had to withdraw it because it wasn't in line with its expectations. Soon, of course, competition, all. If there's anyone who's doing something for the National Park of the Atlantic Islands and, in particular, for the Cyes Islands, it's the Government of Galicia. Not only in your investment of 700,000 euros, but also in your control, in your preservation and even in that sustainable tourism, which is possible to do. If there's anyone who's got something reported against the ships that the tourists cheated, it's the Government of Galician Union. I'm waiting to hear from you on which side you are, if it's not for legislation or for the side of the Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, who likes politics, which is how it actually started, what you should be doing is putting yourself next to the Council of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u309	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u310	...and enforce this legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u311	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the measures envisaged by the Galician Union to comply with labour risk prevention legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u312	You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u313	Good afternoon, Mr. Count. He's just lost a debate of a great dialectic height. I hope you're not up to the friends who preceded him. [[Murmurs.]] I hope you can talk about politics on this issue, on the question of labour inequality; if not, we'll get to the level of telling the opposition that we don't get into politics, as I said who you already know. Well, we're going to talk about 30 people, about 30 people who are the people killed in work accidents in the first half of this year without you, ladies and gentlemen, having had a minute of silence for them in this Parliament. In 2015 there were 58; in 2016, 61, reaching this year absolute figures being Galicia's third autonomous community with more fatal labor accidents and, in relative terms, champions in the queue, as in so many labour-related indices, with 7.27 deaths due to fatal labour causes for every 100,000 people, which places us in double the state average. And in 2017 the situation, as we see, doesn't improve. And in addition, here I am allowed to speak of the province of Lugo, because, with an incidence rate of 14,79 deaths per 100,000 employees, it becomes the highest rate in the entire state. We're talking about statistics. You said yesterday that we had to go to the statistics, to the official data, because it is obvious that there has been a shift in the trend without them: since 2013 there has been a shift in labor deficiency breaking a trend that has changed since the year 2000, and we have become the figures of our community -- and here I quote Manolo Lago, who has already told you a lot of times -- among the developed countries with the worst occupational health and safety data at work. What did we think of this high fatal labor sinality in Galicia? It is clear that there is also an ageing of the working class in Greece, but it is also clear that in our country there are conditions of precarious work worse than in the rest of the state. And it is clear that labour reform, the effects of the 2012 labour reform, coincide with that trend shift. And, therefore, for us the precariousness of work fires sinisterity. Not just for us, this is evidence. The precariousness of work fires sinality, the precariousness of work kills, it gets sick. The precariousness of work kills, we can say without being corrected later, as when I said that yesterday, Miguel Tellado about communism. Finally, by going down from statistics to people — because of statistics also about job insecurity is evident on the subject of sinequality — work accidents increase by 12%, twice as much as job creation. And besides, 19% of the work casualties down in 2016 had as victims people who had less than three months of age in that job, when that collective is only 7% of the working class. So work precariousness kills, and this -- down from statistics to people -- happened to Nicolás, who died in Rande at 54 years of age, died after he rushed when he was precisely putting a safety fence in those works of extension of the Rande bridge without any kind of safe conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u315	...with 12-hour working hours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u316	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u317	Those laws, that labor legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u318	Thank you. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u319	...has been grossly breached there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u320	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Vázquez, look, there is no parliamentary question or parliamentary answer that can relieve families affected by an accident at work. That is why, in view of the fact that it is also a matter of utmost importance, I would like to thank you for your interest in logically improving the policies that enable us all to continue to reduce their numbers. In what we disagree, and we disagree deeply, it's in the management that you've just done about the figures of labor charity to try to present Galicia, not the Government, but Galicia, as a society that doesn't act and as a society that doesn't comply with legality. That is truly a matter of political concern. Because look, Mrs Vázquez, there is no government that stops doing what it has to do to prevent an accident, no government. And in those governments, Mrs Vázquez — so I ask you for some caution — including your governments, the governments with which you are currently ruling in other autonomous communities in Spain. There's no government, no government, not doing what you have to do to avoid an accident. Mrs. Vázquez, this Government is doing what it is doing, along with the companies, along with its own workers, is logically an ongoing effort for us all to act together firmly. And he's performing the Labour Inspectorate and he's acting as the very technicians of the Galego Institute of Occupational Health and Safety. And they're doing it -- as we need to work on prevention and safety and occupational health -- from the point of view of awareness, from the point of view of inspection, and logically also from the research itself where an accident occurs. He knows that the Galego Institute of Occupational Safety and Health is developing an integral plan of activity, which, of course, he should know — that I think he does not have that reference — that includes the approaches to the unions and the Galician business organization itself and that he also counts on his approval. And they're developing advisory programs, technical days, awareness-raising and research campaigns. You should also know that the Labour Inspectorate itself is acting: 13,000 actions have been carried out this year 2017, with 400 acts of infringement and, logically, also in conjunction with the Industrial Safety Plan that develops the Government itself, which is allowing more than 2,000 inspections to ensure precisely the implementation of preventive measures with a clear impact on labour deficiency. So this government is acting, this government is acting along with economic and social agents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u322	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u323	...and I don't think I should frifle with the data of labor charity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u324	Thank you. Mrs Vázquez Verao's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u325	Not frivolous, but it's obvious that they didn't act when Rande the IGC took time to denounce that there were some ultra-precursive working conditions, that in that AP-9 enlargement there were 12-hour work days, that there were no security measures, and the fact was that unfortunately a person fell just when he was putting in a security measure. In this case, what has happened is that legislation on labour security has been flagrantly breached in the face of both the joint and the central government's noses — and I suppose, if the PP continues to govern, for a long time — it depends on AP-9. So you don't act on everything you have to do. I agree with you that training in the prevention of occupational risks is of utmost importance, so we are surprised that they reduce the budget of that institute that you referred to at the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health. Then I think Mr. Crespo also has a question about it, about a report. I can also ask you why human resources have been reduced since 2009 and why your budget has gone from managing around 10 million euros to managing only 6 million. That is also to act against worklessness. This same institute, in its Greek strategy of safety and health at work, does not once mention precariousness. Will it ever relate to the precarious working conditions with the increase in labor weakness? As for the inspections, we also agree that they must be increased. That's what the class unions are asking for. They asked the Government of the State to increase the staff of the labour inspection because it's not enough. Have you ever wondered whether there is a need to demand more skills in the area of labour inspection? As favourable as they are to change the Criminal Code, for example, when raising sentences, have they wondered if the criminal types of title XV should be modified and expanded to defend the rights of workers and workers? Finally, the sinister nature of work for us causes almost as many deaths as traffic accidents, but unfortunately we think that in political action it is not as a priority. So, in front of the minutes of silence: measures, budget and staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u326	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Close shift, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u327	Mrs. Vázquez, I'm starting to worry about your ignorance not only of Galicia's political and social reality, but also about the data in the budget itself. Because if you come to this House to say that the Government has actually reduced the budget specifically in terms of safety and health at work, when this year has increased by 6%, until it reaches 7.5 million euros, it is simply a lack of knowledge of the documents you should know. Therefore, this Government is increasing the budget, and above all, Your Honor, this Government is trying to do everything it has to do — I insist, everything it has to do — along with the unions and the employer himself, to avoid any kind of accident. Everything! And you, who are ruling in Aragon, this is from the autonomous communities that have the most occupational accidents in Spain. So I don't think you should teach us about the data here. Look, Mrs. Verao, Galicia isn't the community that most fatal labor accidents record, it isn't; and Galicia isn't even the one that has the most labor accidents. So I think you should correct your intervention. And I insist that this Galician board in collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, in collaboration with the Galego Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, in collaboration with all the technicians of the Directorate-General of Energy that develop the activity of the Industrial Safety Plan, and with all the capabilities it has, is working on the edido of prevention, in the discharge of training, and also logically also in the edido of inspection. That's where we have to find ourselves to avoid any kind of accident that can happen, regardless of its gravity. Of course, Mrs Vázquez — and should correct this in the next interventions she may have — does not tolerate any violation of the law, because for that is this Government, to ensure compliance with the law. We understand that you are accustomed to failing to comply with the law, but look, the Government, of course, will not tolerate any violation of the law. So we will continue to work with a policy of dialogue and consensus with the social partners, developing the Galician Strategy for Safety and Labour Health, and have no doubt that all this technical work will develop it and will make every effort necessary to reduce labor deficiency. And, of course, we will continue to demand all the responsibilities at its own time. If you understand, as a political group, that you can improve your policies, you tell them, but just come here and do an intervention like you did this afternoon, I think you could save it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u328	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the state of processing of the request of the sectoral project of supra-municipal impact submitted by the CUF regarding the land occupied by the Elnosa factory in Lourizán
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u329	Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u330	Good afternoon. This question has to do with the state of processing of the sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence in the case of Elnosa. We — the BNG has already said it on several occasions — have made it clear that there is already a political decision — it is a political decision, not a technical decision — by the People's Party's Party's meeting for the stay of Elnosa company beyond 2017, which is when the use of mercury technology expires, and beyond 2018, the date of expiry of the Coastal Grant. And this became clear to us — if we didn't quite clear enough enough — when on November 24, through a press conference, they announced negotiations at the highest level in which they participate nothing more and nothing less than three advisers — you will tell me what companies are negotiating like this at this level: the vice president, the Industry Adviser and the Environment Adviser, precisely to facilitate this stay in Lourizán by Elnosa. Following, on the other hand, the same script that they used with Ence: environmental authorization first; after approval of a sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence to override the competences of the Town Hall; and thirdly, the extension of the 60-year concession established by the Central Government's Law of Back. So it's a political decision, it's not a technical decision. It's a decision that's already made in advance, and now what you're doing is forcing and adapting the law to carry it out; and they're doing it in addition with nightlife and relief. This is a real political wretch, you can't call it any other way. It's an attack on the environment and it's a betrayal of the People's Party to Pontevedra, which has been saying one thing for years, and now it's doing the opposite. [[Applause]] As, on the other hand, Mr. Feijóo has gotten used to us when he said that: "It is not possible to keep Ence in the creek. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." Yeah, they say one thing and they do the opposite, because in 2013 you signed an agreement with Elnosa where it was established that 2016 was the factory's deadline in Lourizán, and they're breaking that agreement. You may sign the textile paper agreements, and we already know how to use the tissue paper. Mr. Rueda, the People's Party and Junta are doing Elnosa's dirty work as they did before to Ence; they're practising the right of environmental perennial; they're twisting the law with rotational doors included and with corruption legalized in the DOG; they're using franchise methods to give 12,000 square metres of public-dominated land to a private company which, above all, is a polluting company. So what we're telling you is that the BNG and the Pontevedra Town Hall will not allow this attack on the Environment and this betrayal of Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u331	Thank you, Mr Bará. You're being told by the Economics, Employment and Industry Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u332	Mr Bará, your intervention is of such a political irresponsibility that I simply advise you to listen quietly when you finish the session, and surely, in a more relaxed way, you can understand that you have made here an act of first magnitude political irresponsibility. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] In any case, Mr Bará, we surely join the interest in the environment, though I already begin to doubt even that you have some interest in the environment. If we were to talk about the environment and sustainable development, we could certainly reach some agreement. But there are two principles that clearly separate us: one is the principle of legality; and another, logically, is the principle of job creation and economic dynamisation. It's clear that the Galego Nationalist Block understands that the laws are to comply with those that interest him, regardless of what is in the law, because you don't care. And this Government, the Council of Galicia — as it has always done and as it is going to continue to do — will abide by the administrative resolutions and will do so in the context of a rule of law that you seem not to respect; by complying with the law that is in force, which seems that you do not want to comply; and also the Constitution itself, which you seem to be above it. One reality that you often forget is that they systematically refer — as you have done today — to which this Government has already made a political decision. Look, the law is about to fulfill it, and the law has some procedures that are perfectly regulated. And regardless of the actions that you, politically and politically — I'm going to tell you something smoother —, support, they want to move here, that regulation is backed up by technical criteria and legal criteria, they like it or they don't like it. And what you've moved here to this government is own other countries that you're probably very used to following your legal order, but here in Spain, Mr Bará, that we're in Spain... we're in a rule of law, and you seem to forget that often. [[Laughter]] In any case, you have no doubt that this Government will comply with the regulations. You know that Elnosa, in order to be able to follow the current location, has to have Costas authorization, and logically you will have to comply with all the environmental and urban regulations of the Galician Union. And there will only be continuity if you comply with all the rules. Don't have any doubts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u333	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u334	We're going to have to call you Trotaconventos because he comes here to give us advice on this paternalist style of parish priestly healing, and we don't accept that paternalist style, Mr. Conde. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I want you to explain to me why in October 2013 you sign an agreement with the CUF company that establishes the end of the activity in 2016; the undertaking of the company not to request an extension of the concession; and the undertaking by the company to present two alternative locations, one of them in the area of influence of the city. Why would that be in 2013 and not now? Why did you change your position? What dark interests are in the back there? Because of course, you're finally doing what you're doing is changing the laws according to the interests of the shift company, as they did in the case of Ence. That's what you do: serving private interests against public interest. [[Applause]] Of course, it seems like an aberration and an attack that you want to keep this company in its current location, with the danger of a harmful and dangerous activity, which could develop anywhere else, just 100 metres from a densely inhabited area, in which 120,000 people live, and in addition to the aggravating that they are occupying public-dominated land — 12,000 square metres of public-dominated land — that you are going to give to a company. I'd like it already, or I'd like it, for example, to Mr. Froiz, who, rather than having to pay the land of a polygon, also gave him some land of the public domain of the sea-terrestrials so that he could install his company. That's not fair! You can't act like that! There are more than enough reasons to deny the continuity of the factory in the current location, to promote its transfer, to recover for social use the public land occupied by the factory: by common sense, by sense of justice and, above all, by respect to the environment and also to the urban and land management regulations we have in this country. If you weren't for the DOT and the Coastal Management Plan...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u335	Thank you, Mr Bará. Time's up. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u336	It is clear that the Galego Nationalist Block in all its dimensions has no respect for the prevailing legality; it is equal to its own regulations; they are above the administrations, the laws, the Constitution, etc. And as it is, if you don't mind, I'll talk to the citizens, specifically to the citizens of Pontevedra. At least for the citizens of Pontevedra to be clear what the plot is. The citizens of Pontevedra must make it clear that the General Directorate of Coasts in Madrid is the one that will determine whether or not Elnosa's continuity in Pontevedra. And the Directorate General of Coast is the administrative body that must decide on the extension of the concession. This is the first element to be clear. And be sure, of course, the Government of Spain will act according to legality. And from that point on, the citizenship of Pontevedra, the citizens and the workers of Elnosa have to be made clear that if the company complies with all the environmental parameters and with the European Union's regulations from the point of view of technology, and logically the procedures are developed and the rules are complied with, this Government — I say — has no doubts about the maintenance of employment and the maintenance of Elnosa's activity in Pontevedra; it has no doubts whatsoever. But we will have to go through these administrative procedures. First of all, the Directorate-General of Coasts in Madrid and its own integrated environmental authorization, which you will have to present and process, and logically see whether or not you are authorized. And from there, give an answer. I regret — and I am also transferring it to the citizenship of Pontevedra in this case — that a political group wants to defend in this Parliament that the Government has to act outside the law. Or worse, trying to move than a government is acting outside the law. Look, in the position of the Council of Pontevedra — since you mentioned it — it seems to me that the Council of Galicia has already taken a decision, which is the same as you bring, and I find it inappropriate. It seems to me to be inappropriate for an administration, for a democracy, for a rule of law, for Spain to make such statements, and therefore not for the law to be complied with. But it seems even more inappropriate, Mr Bará, to me even more inappropriate, that a political group intends to defend it in the Galician Parliament. A lot more impromptu! Because you in this Parliament should, logically, be a guarantor of compliance with the rules. And don't worry, the Galician Union will comply with the regulations, it will comply with the current law with Elnosa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u337	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the latest and specific measures to be taken for the development of the new Greek foreign language strategy EDUlingue 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u338	Give Mrs. Egerique a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u339	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, this week the school began and Monday the primary and childhood students started. They'll start the baccalaureate and ESO throughout the week. The truth is, he started the course all normal. Even some students found renovations and works in their study centers. The students in rural areas and the students in urban centers were also started, i.e. there was normality and back to school. It's very different from what was painted here when we left in the previous session, which seemed little more than we were going with a very black panorama and that in September the students would have nowhere to go to their school, at their school. The truth is, we know that it's hard work in the board and in addition to the entire educational community. This is an effort from all of us. The last PISA report is very favourable for Galicia, so we have to keep working on that path. And we, the People's Parliamentary Group, want to give you all the support to the council, especially in order to put forward new objectives and new challenges that we had very clear in the electoral program that later referred to the Greek society on the day of the autonomous elections almost a year ago. One of the flags in education was to bet on technology, which we know is being gradually implanted also in educational centers. And another of the very important flags, which we explain in every village, in all educational communities, and — I insist — also to parents and mothers in all centres, was multilingual education. The commitment of the Council, the commitment of the president of the board, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, to multilingual education in Galicia — which is also an example in other autonomous communities — was a challenge for us to consider, it was a firm commitment, and we know that it is not easy to include education in a foreign language so that the student acquires an appropriate level at the end of each stage at all educational stages. We had little knowledge of what they called EDUlingue 2020 plan or strategy, and we would like to know what the steps are going to be, how the Council of Galicia will act, so that this is a reality. I wanted to insist that this is really a work of the Union that we support from the Group of the People's Party; that all the troublemakers, that everything that is seen above or anticipated in June, of that we have nothing today; that the beginning of the course in all cycles, at all stages, is being completely normal; and that the students in rural areas are on equal terms with the students in urban centers. Because in addition, the difference that may have in the physical sphere in which they deal, does not diminish the quality in training at all. [[Murmurs.]] And they also have all the freedom to choose the families where they want to live and which center they want to send their children, because equality is increasingly higher in education. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we're very proud of Galicia's education system and we wanted to ask you the following question as we recorded it. What specific developments will be undertaken for the development of the new Greek foreign language strategy EDUlingue 2020? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u341	Thank you very much, Madam. Of course, education is vital for the present and future of a country, for a society, because besides training people, for forming citizens for the future in values, for making better citizens, it has to also provide tools for children and children today, that is, men and women tomorrow, to be able to face the enormous challenges of working life, which have social changes, and develop themselves untiringly in the face of these changes. We are in a society where, whether we want it or not, language management is going to be fundamental. We are in an increasingly globalized society, and it is a responsibility of the educational administrations to prepare for Thursday, tomorrow's adults, so that they can face the great challenges that it means to be in a society — as I said — increasingly globalized. That's why a new foreign language strategy has been implemented since the Government of the Union, which we call EDUlingue 2020, which aims to follow on a line already experienced by the current Government, to give a quantitative and qualitative leap to a process that has been implemented at its time and which aims to provide our students with skills, skills and skills for language management. Obviously, there are no magic wands, or much less, to extend multilingualism from day to day, but this whole process is progressive, gradually, and always counting on the involvement and complicity of educational institutions, families and teachers themselves. As I said before, we are faced with a world, a society that is increasingly complex, more open, more changing, more competitive, and is fundamental not only for the present, but for the future, to have skills, to manage in different languages, because we are in a globalized society. That's why EDUlingualu wants to take one more step over what we're already having, and this more step is based on a series of points. The first one is to promote and try to promote a full domain of a foreign language at the end of the Bachelor's degree. The second is having a more specialized presence mainly in English, but also opening the doors to new languages, such as Portuguese, within the actions of the strategy. The third, to provide more skills, to enable more competences to be able to certify the level of excellence. And the fourth, and very important, to promote the training of teachers, both at the national level and also by enabling training in international fields. Obviously, this strategy that favors is a greater equality of opportunity. Regardless of the economic or social situation of the child or child, it will be able to have a large part of multilingual teaching. It enables a democratization of teaching in foreign languages and gives more competence to students. I mean, we're giving good opportunities, better opportunities, our students, and this cheers us up, especially because there's a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u342	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u343	...very good reception for educational centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u344	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u345	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. The truth is that it gives a lot of insight into the implementation of this new EDUlingue 2020, because it is a major step forward in education in Galicia. It is also a step forward that for parents and for the whole community implies an effort for knowledge and learning by children and children of a foreign language. At least since the People's Parliamentary Group has our full support, and we believe it is important that you can repeat figures now; that is, if you can make an enlargement of what this means on the whole. Because sometimes we're talking here about strategies and plans, but as soon as we have to carry them out, as soon as we have to execute them and put them into action, the truth is that sometimes the dimensions are very wide. It is true — as I said before and I would like to reiterate — that equality and ease to study a foreign language in Galicia is guaranteed, and that it is also extended to all educational stages, therefore, it is a privilege to study here. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, because you have always been reprimanded by the opposition, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we know of your surrender to the educational system, to the educational community, so I want to take advantage of this turn of reply to tell you that you have the support of the People's Parliamentary Group and that we believe that this will be a reality in the shortest possible time. And as a member of this Parliament... in this House that is never heard, I would like to congratulate the adviser because I really know that it is not simple to train the educational community, because teachers also need to train them so that they can teach a foreign language, and so that it reaches all the educational cycles of the whole stage of training. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you can — I insist — broaden your figures and tell us what the dimensions of the strategy are going to take place, we would be grateful to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Shuttle tower, Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u347	Thank you very much, Madam, for all I have to say on this question. Obviously, to criticize and question, we already have the front seats. [[Murmurs.]] But by focusing again on the question, I would also like to thank the educational centres, their management teams, their teachers, for the very good reception that the educational system centers have the vast majority of the programs and strategies promoted by the Council. And in this, based to some extent on a project that wants to give equal opportunities and democratize language teaching to all students, to the vast majority of students — in a progressive way, of course — I believe it is worthy of administration and political training to thank management teams, schools and also teachers, the fact of their involvement, the over effort they acquire, and also — why not say so — for the fact that they are giving many opportunities to students in these centres. In this new program we have good data, which speaks of good responsiveness. In particular, we have 322 multilingual centres for the current education course, 40 more than the previous year. The network is expanded with 25 centres providing primary and secondary education and 15 centres providing children's education, bachelor's degree and FP cycles. In the 2017-2018 course, the extension of plurilingualism is also carried out and effective at all educational stages: the child, the bachelor's degree and the different cycles of FP. In total, 83 educational centres have responded to this call and will be introduced to plurilingualism in children, in which we call PluriInfantil; 4 centres will be in baccalaureate, which we call Pluribach, and also in vocational training. Still with undetermined data, with provisional data, we're going to give 12 training cycles in 7 educational centers. Bilingual sections also grow. They increase by 231, to 4,145, 6% more. There are 110 centers that incorporate more bilingual sections; 34 of these 110 do it for the first time. The Cuale Program also has a remarkable increase. It has 1,200 students who will receive specialized training outside school hours to be able to certify in official language schools. There's also a very remarkable expansion about conversation auxiliaries; more than 50 new chat auxiliaries, reaching a total of 600. The professor, the vital and fundamental part of this whole process, will have a specific training plan and will also have a greater capacity to make stays abroad. Finally, we are facing a process that includes a huge number of agents: centers, teachers, families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u348	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u349	...students, who ultimately respond...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u350	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u351	...to a very well-accommodated strategy by educational institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u352	You got it, you got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u353	...and that also responds to an election commitment from this political formation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u354	That's it, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u356	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the conclusions of the report to the working group which constituted the Issga, 061 and the Council of the Sea in relation to the first aid shops in fishing vessels
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u357	Mr. López Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u358	Good afternoon, Counselor. It's up to me today to ask a question that has to do with that, sometimes, difficult balance in government action to establish the right half between what to do and what to avoid. I mean, sometimes we make an exaggerated decision on either side. And here we are going to talk about the need and the imposition that Europe imposes on us of bringing medical and health care on board ships that allow them to have some safety. I think that's what En Marea's companion referred to when she was talking about safety and health at work. We could stand still and fight, as in some forums. I mean, ships don't have to carry anything. But that's a great insanity that could lead us to a precautional situation, like some fellow man, referring to the Cyes, he also spoke here. And we could do, on the other hand, that they carry everything. We would take another precaution in the economic aspect. We're talking about 3,800 boats that make very close to the coast, and where we have to adjust, make fine fit, so that that tax shop meets the goal of giving our sailors security and, on the other hand, fulfilling the objective of allowing the budgetary balance of what the boat takes out so it doesn't get too heavy. You, since the Council, aware of this, have created a commission where the Industry, Labour, Health and the Issga councils are located to make an approach, to make a proposal, to allow this integration to which I was referring. We here, from the People's Party, ask for and work to demand greater safety on ships, greater capacity to respond to an emergency that may occur. So, from the Popular Group, we ask you today a question about this. And the question is, what were the conclusions of the report sent to the working group that constituted the Issga, the 061 and the Council of the Sea about the boats in the fishing boats? We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u359	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u360	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. López Crespo, I thank you for your exposure and your sensitivity. It's really a delicate, complicated subject, because we're talking about the safety of many professionals who get out of work every day. In this sense, the first thing we did since the Government was to request a meeting with the Head of Unit B of the Directorate-General for Employment, Social Security and Inclusion of the European Union, Mr. Stephen Olsen, to whom we transferred the peculiarity and singularity of the Welsh fishing fleet; as you referred, those more than 3,800 vessels that make basically 5 miles from the coast, within our waters, within our rivers. And we moved the problem that we were detecting in order to force these boats to take the type C shop, which is regulated by Community legislation, which is essentially the same shop that is required of tall boats, those boats that spend many days away from any fishing port or city. In this sense, we told him that it was no longer just the difficulty of handling all the drugs these shopkeepers had to take, but also the safety of carrying the shop in the boats, because many of these our boats don't even have a bridge where they can take them. Given the sensitivity shown to us by this director of employment, what we proposed from Galicia was the possibility of setting up a working group in which the health personnel were also responsible for occupational safety and health, where the sector itself and all the administrations we had to deal with. He thanked us for this constructive stance. In January, we formed this working group, in which Issga participated, participated on 061, participated in the three conferre federations and participated in technicians from both the General Fisheries Development Directorate and the General Fisheries Directorate. And among all of them they did an analysis, first, of the drugs that carry all the bottles, and second, of the medical materials that carry these bottles. That proposal, this study, that analysis, led us to conclude that we could assimilate the small shop that brings the bass boats to those that are currently authorized for rescue vessels, with which we could reduce the drugs by 75% and the medical material by 55%. The findings of this study have also been given to Stephen Olsen himself and also to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Government Development of Spain. Let's hope that these policy changes will be implemented as soon as possible, so sea professionals can safely go out and do their daily work. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u361	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u362	Thank you, President. Well, Counsellor, to the thread of asking this question, one has been dedicated to politics for a few years, and this of active policy has a fundamental step: defining needs of the people, designing solutions and getting proposals and actions to solve those needs apart from these projects. Then I remembered the election program of the People's Party. I know this can create some foxy sister on some bench, but, well, you have to see it. And I remember that in the PP electoral program it was said, "We will continue, together with the work already developed together with the most representative entities, in the search for a security regulation on board that will be brought to our small-scale fishing sector, with special impact on the attention of a proper delivery obligation of shoppers. In this regard, we will deepen on the request for improved transposition of the Community directive to promote better medical assistance on board ships in order to simplify the requirements by adapting them to the circumstances of immediate proximity, medical assistance and limitation of space on board our ships." That's what we said in the election program, and this is what it was a year ago. As early as March, in Commission 8th, the People's Party itself presents an initiative in which it seeks to value this problem that is posed to the boats of bass. So, after the debate on that committee... by the way, with an abstention from the BNG, but I think there was unanimity at the bottom. No, I say there was unanimity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, it was insignificant that little lunar girl of abstention, but good. An initiative was then taken, saying: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to address the European Union to explain the reality of the downsizing fleet for the purpose of simplifying the demands in relation to drug boxes and first aid boxes." I'm done telling you, Counselor, that this was the program, this was the government action, and now it's your presence here in plenary. And I have to say, once again, even though they tell me it's the ballet, that you're a sea councilman with ability and competence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u363	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Shut up, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u364	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. López Crespo, as you well say, this was a commitment we had made in our electoral program. I remember taking possession in the first days of December, and at the end of December I was meeting with the Director of Employment in Brussels. And this report is already handed over to the director himself, and we also asked him to simplify the health guide as well. Our own technicians have valued that a sailor can't carry on a boat a guide that looks like a telephone guide, that already has happened, and that we could design simplified and plasticized sheets that can carry on board the boats -- where there really is water and if they are wet -- or that we could even design a mobile app, and we could even change the design of the type of cabinet in which they have to carry these drugs, design a kind of kidney or even backpack. The only thing I can move to is that the Director-General was really surprised, gratefully, that you were able to achieve that consensus between — I say — health professionals, health professionals, occupational health professionals and the representatives of the sector themselves, to whom I have to thank for the maturity they showed by working hand to the technicians involved as well as health technicians and health technicians. And they themselves were aware that it wasn't worth saying "just as they ask for rescue boats," but "we're going to analyze exactly what our needs are and put all our hands on to do so." On the other hand, we were also asked to simplify training courses. I'm very much in favour of training. I believe that it is fundamental and necessary for the development of all stages of our life. And, of course, good training is very necessary also for the professional fishing sector. They have to understand that this training is good and therefore they can't understand that it's a training that takes place just for a few hours or a fee. So we also proposed that this training be compulsory only when they had to change some medication, or when it was required by a regulatory change, i.e. that professionals themselves value this training when they see that it is useful for them to develop their work. And on this line we're going to keep working. Let's hope the manager will be able to comply with his commitment to try to speed up procedures that involve policy changes as quickly as possible. But I understand that, at best, we may soon have good news. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u365	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the number of consultations implemented in the comarcas hospitals since the launch of the Organizational Structures of Integrated Management in Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u366	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u367	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The organizational structures of integrated management of the Galego Health Service are instruments of organization without legal personality that configure the peripheral organs that manage the Public Health Service of Galicia, integrating all the assistance centers of Sergas in its territorial area. These structures are responsible for the unitary management of health resources in this area, as well as for the health services and programmes they develop, except for the functions of the health authority. The geographic areas of each of the EOXI are established in the decrees and orders they created between 2010 and 2013. And in Galicia there are seven integrated management structures: three in the province of Coruña — La Coruña, Ferrol and Santiago — one in the province of Lugo — Lugo, Cervo and Monforte —, one in the province of Ourense — Ourense, Verín, The Barco de Valdeorras — and two in the province of Pontevedra — Pontevedra-Salnes, and the EOXI de Vigo — which manage the eleven health areas that exist today. All the Members and Members of this House know — and this plenary debate was held on an initiative for asking the President of the Galician Council and asking yourself, Counsellor — that there is a draft draft draft draft draft draft amendment to the Galician Health Act, which envisages an administrative change in the designation of these structures, turning into subdivided health areas in districts associated with the 14 Greek hospitals. Seven areas and fourteen districts is the proposal to modify the territorial structure of the Greek health system. This amendment aims to adapt the law to the care and hospital reality of our health. From the People's Parliamentary Group we are currently supporting the creation of these EOXI structures, which we are convinced they represented an important improvement in the quality of the assistance provided to the citizen. And we also support the change of law with the new territorial organization planned. One of the advantages presented by EOXI is the possibility of approaching the specialized consultations to the comarcal hospitals from the reference centers by moving the optional specialists to these hospitals with the objective of facilitating care, placing the patient at the center of the system. For this reason, we have asked the following question in plenary: how many specialized consultations have been implemented in the comarcas hospitals since the launch of these organizational structures of integrated management in Sergas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u368	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u369	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I think it's a very appropriate question. We are in a legislative change, as we said this morning, in an important legislative change, not with regard to the amendment of the law that is in force, but with organizational aspects that will consolidate and improve the health service. In Galicia, as in other communities — not many communities — the process of integrating primary care and hospital care has been advanced precisely. And he tried to continue to support to meet that basic goal that is to bring the services closer to citizens, live where they live, and that they can have the same services and the same quality. That's why I think it's important to do a review of that model now. And -- as you said well -- we try to change a name that is very technical but that tells very little to the citizenry -- and not even the General Health Act -- which is the EOXI, the Integrated Management Organizational Structure -- said this morning also that something similar, a similar name, have in the Basque Country, the OSI, and change it by something that you know people, who understand people, because they have a lot of correspondence to the geographic situation, which are the areas. And the areas have come to improve the service, not to dismantle services, not to worsen the quality of the health service, to improve it, and, as I say, especially to bring the service closer to society, both from the point of view of primary care, with better health centers, with more services to resolve at the local level, but also in the comarcal field. And that's why I wanted to start by commenting that, when we talked about the number of consultations, I wanted to give what this activity, the general activity of the comarcas, which I have been proposing since 2009, when this government started working and improving health care, to date. Between 2009 and 2016, the total number of consultations increased by 15% in the Galician comarcas hospitals. It was 555,000 and in 2016 we moved to 639,000. Tests were also achieved in 2016, 519,000. Total interventions increased by 13.1%, from 24,200 to 27.400. In emergency care, curiously — not curiously, we give an answer — we have decreased in hospital emergencies because, as we said before, we have increased the emergency care and resolved in primary care, health centers and continuing care points. Day hospital sessions? Well, in 2009, we didn't have day hospital sessions, and now we have 21,700 treatments in day-to-day hospitals and comarcas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u370	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u371	And income...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u373	...we now have 1,145 incomes, a great improvement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u374	He's got another shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u375	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u376	Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u377	Thank you, Counselor. After hearing it, it gives the impression that all those Biblical or apocalypse plagues that were told that they would occur after the creation of the EOXI changed to an important improvement in the care of the patients, bringing health closer to their places of residence and placing people, as we said, at the center of the health system. We must thank, as it cannot be otherwise, for the magnificent work of the professionals in these hospitals. From the People's Parliamentary Group we know that the proposed amendment of the Health Act, in its territorial section, will facilitate the approach of health professionals to comarcas hospitals, in addition to giving legal coverage to the movements of specialists between different areas, which today is not sufficiently guaranteed. The professionals of the comarcas hospitals themselves will have the possibility to reconcile their activities in their own center with the realization of surgeries or procedures, courses or clinical sessions in other hospitals, which will improve their training, will help to increase the critical mass that professionals care for, which will not lose their hand because of the shortage of pathologies they run in a smaller hospital. All this will facilitate, along with open and permanent transfer contests, that cover the squares of the comarcal hospitals in the OPE and transfers, which today does not occur in many cases. It will also help to improve the chronic deficit situation of optional people suffering from some comarcal hospitals, thus improving people's attention. We trust that this reform will significantly increase the number of consultations that you have put before us in your response, which will ensure the very existence of the centres, shielded by the creation of the districts, and will facilitate health care to thousands and thousands of Greeks and Greeks, who will have the health much closer. I repeat my thanks, I did not ask you any more questions and let you take advantage of the closing shift to complete your answer if it seems appropriate to you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u378	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u379	Yes, the truth is, I would like to complete the general activity of the comarcas and what they've done with new specialties these years. And taking up the activity of the year 2012 until this first half of 2017, at the Hospital do Salnés, 23,476 events were held — we speak of consultations, we speak of treatments in day hospitals—; at the Barbanza, 59,596; at the Hospital da Costa, 12,492; at the Hospital de Monforte, 12,767; at the Virxe da Junqueira, 13,154; at the Hospital de Verín, 79,548; at the Hospital de Valdeorras, 64,707. But it must also be said that, for example -- I remembered this morning -- at the Valdeorras Hospital in 2012, there were three major specialties on the service portfolio. It's ten right now. And at the Monforte Hospital there was none in 2012, and right now there are four. It must also be said that with all this activity carried out over these years with the new model of EOXI, the Integrated Organizational Structure of Galicia, which we now want to convert into "health area", 263,000 citizens who live in the comarcal area have been prevented. And we've almost reached 20 million euros in investments, both of hospitals' improvement works and also of technological equipment, to do much better all these activities. As I said earlier, the model, of course, will not dismantle comarcal hospitals, it will not dismantle primary care; on the contrary, it will increase activity, it will improve quality — another of the opposition debates, which we are going to lose in quality. We're not going to lose quality, we're going to improve quality. And, of course, we're going to continue to decrease the displacements that citizens who live in the area of comarcal hospitals have to make in order to leave them only for those specialties that need either the latest generation technology or a number of cases so that the specialists who treat them are the best. Heart surgery can't be on all sides, even the opposition this morning recognized that we can't have transplant centers in every hospital in Galicia. But everything that's resolute, that's close to the citizen, we're going to take him to the nearest place, be it the primary care center, be it the comarcal hospital or the area hospital. We would therefore like, as we said this morning, to be positive that there can be initiatives from Parliament to further improve this law, that we can, among all, make a law that is the ideal framework for the new Greek health service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u380	Thank you, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the need to build a day centre for people aged 65 in the municipality of Rianxo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u381	Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u382	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the proximity to the home and more to the middle what makes the day center something different from a standard care center. It's familiarity within a basic necessary type-approval that gives it human quality, it's the social conception that we have in the 21st century that makes the demands we put yesterday and but today here are something logical and fair, and that's why I'm going to ask you and argue at a time: do you consider that old age is a state of life with rights that society should meet or, on the contrary, think it's a luxury just for choices touched by the finger of fortune? For the location of day centers do you set priorities by looking at the needs present and making demographic surveys or by following the whimsical or hidden interests of some shift? And if a family with older ones who have special needs needs needs needs to reconcile, how do you do that? Is a couple of hours of home help a week enough? And for the new elections that the gods give us, in the PP myths and in their constant propaganda will we hear again promises from the Rianxo Day Centre to see how many bites? When will your board seriously consider establishing with logic and rigour a public network of day centers that responds to the growing demands of an increasingly aging population? We can live to condemn women who have to leave their jobs to care for the older ones of the family. Home care hours are fine, who denies them, but the elderly with special needs, with accused units, need specialized treatment that only in properly equipped public centers can be given to them. About 3,000 people over 65, higher life expectancy and increasing, 19 displaced and more than 40 people in need of credit and with a running request, people of Rianxo's third age are waiting. Yesterday, at full employer parties, they were here showing us the awareness of their rights and the requirement of a nearby day center and with sufficient squares, because there are requests, and enough. Here's the question: Does it not seem reasonable to you to request a day center by the neighbors and neighbors of Rianxo considering the high number of people over 65 and the important number of those moving to other municipalities to be cared for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u383	Thank you, Mr. Rivas Cruz. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I very much appreciate the oral wording of this question, as with all the questions asked to the Government in relation to something very important to the whole society, which is the attention of our elders. Our elders were the ones who got a better society. With their work, many of us are here, we enjoy better public services, better education, better health and, of course, also better social services than they could know in their early years of life. That's why everything the Government of Galicia can do for them will always be little. We've made a lot of progress in recent years, but above all, we're going to make a lot more progress, I'm sure, at this new economic moment and in this legislation. I want to start this answer by defending the ongoing dialogue, the ongoing dialogue between the Council of Social Policy and the Councils, between the councillor and the mayors and mayors of Galicia, whatever it is — because I also think it is very important — its political colour, with open and fluid communication that is necessary to continue to advance in coordination between administrations as well as to articulate among all the best services in social matters and, as I am wondering today, the best services for our seniors. This permanent line of collaboration with local authorities demonstrates the sensitivity and importance that we in the Galician Union grant to social policies, which, in addition, ladies and gentlemen, is giving its results, since we approve and are developing the Galician Single Social Agenda with the municipalities. In the specific case of the claim of a day center for Rianxo, I would like to tell you that there were several meetings that we held with the mayor and with the municipal corporation, and a meeting that kept the Council with the representatives of the platform who are demanding it, because it seems to us very important not only the formal dialogue, but also, indeed, the informal dialogue with anyone who wants to put in place a necessary infrastructure anywhere. It's going to allow me not to explain also the exact content of the conversations, and much less the exact content of the conversations that this advisor kept with the mayor of Rianxo, because that's institutional loyalty also between administrations. Actually, this board does center planning, actually, by responding to objective planning and a supra-municipal planning. So, I want to tell you that, from caciquil network and private centers, nothing at all. Our day centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u385	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u386	...are public centers belonging to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u387	You've got another shift, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u388	...a network perfectly studied, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u389	He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u390	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u391	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u392	Does it really, at this new economic moment, mean you're going to face the Rianxo Day Centre? Because at first my heart leaped with joy. But it seems not, because political color has to do with it. You mean to tell me that Rianxo didn't provide the Council with enough means, i.e., land or buildings to adapt? You want to tell me that you'll make serious planning in the future but that up until now it's been like it was? Because, really, does it seem to you that 50 kilometers or hour and half of transportation are distance and travel time appropriate for an elderly person and possibly with problems? By the way, what about Corcubion, for how long? It's just that, if not, after two days of weaving, here we go out with a terrible drunk and sometimes we don't know what to say. By the way, the BNG included the construction of a day center for Rianxo in the modification it made for this year's budgets, which was in doubt yesterday. Look. Counsellor, the millionth of the matter is in the conception that if you have of the public interest, that is, of the public thing, of the conception of the social. You're still not safe who you can. And it's true, I mean, whoever has money or influences, has their problem solved. We don't, we bet on using everyone's money -- read from citizens on foot, because there are others who don't contribute -- for the service of the population in general, without ghettos or distinctions. Look, solvent studies advance that in the future life will be prolonged, and the dependencies will go further, which is why it should start to walk. Our aging population needs a plan for a today full of shortages and a tomorrow that doesn't wait. And getting ahead of the future is real politics. And the day center of Rianxo is a necessity that not only demands the neighbors, it claims the common sense, which seems there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u393	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Shuttle shift, Social Policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I told him the public network of day centers. Look, this government, the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, betted like no other government for having a public network of day centers in Galicia. I have square data here in public centers, in day centers. In 2009, 1,194; in 2017, 2,787 squares. So we've almost tripled in these years of difficulty, the number of day centers. [[Applause]] But I'll tell you more. Not one of the municipalities you've talked about is 50 minutes, not an hour, not an hour and a half. I'll tell you exactly the distances because I also have them here with the isochrons. Dodro's is 15 minutes away, Valga's is 20 minutes away, poor's is 20 minutes away, but at last, I think this is an excessive detail because the important thing, what we have to guarantee from the Government, is that a bigger one needs a place to have it. At this moment, by that spread of new squares that were set in day centers, and not by political criteria... I opened the poor and was a mayor of the Tide. We are now going to open another one that is also necessary in another area, specifically in Salnes, several Members have been visiting it, and it does not agree either. What's important is demand and planning, because finally the neighbors are very smart and what they don't want is there's a government in Galicia that discriminates depending on how the mayor's political color is, the political color of the corporation. Look, we have nearby centers in Rianxo, 235 squares. We have 179 and we have 56 available squares which are currently unused, Mr. So I think there are immediate priorities that we have to address. I want to be very clear to you. Let's keep talking to the mayor and to the municipal corporation. That at the moment there is no effective demand does not mean that there is no future. That right now the schedule indicates you don't need to open it next year, doesn't mean it won't be possible to open it next year. So, I mean, on behalf of the Government, we're not going to deny anything, but we're going to try to be objective. We're not going into history, we're not going into who planned the center of the county on the side, or depending on which criteria, we're not going into it. What I have to tell you is that there are places necessary for all the neighbors of Rianxo who need that resource. If there were not the necessary squares, and if you believed by the council that these squares are not enough, I tell you that, of course, our will is not to spare any kind of public resource needed in Galicia, and of course not in Rianxo, which we are increasing all the economic cooperation lines of the Social Policy Council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-13-DSPG039.u395	Thank you, Counselor. Solved the agenda items, aborting session. Good afternoon, everyone.
