ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the action to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the electricity companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u2	Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u3	Good morning, Mr. Feisó. Seeing your position, no one would say it, but I'm sure you know that Galicia is a power in electricity; we produce so much electricity that more than a third of our energy is used to supply other parts of the state. And I don't want to use the word "export" by the way, because when you export as a country you get some benefit, but in this case we only have environmental costs, social costs and a second service. And if you don't ask the more than 50,000 people who for almost five days have been without electric light during the last few seasons. But there's more: in our country there are 120,000 people in energy poverty, that is, people who can't put on heating in winter, who can't afford the bill of light and whose electric ticket doesn't reach them. But we also have companies in our country that threaten to close, to relocate for the high prices of energy in Galicia, and that would lead to thousands of workers being fired. In this context, the normal thing would be for the president of the board to lead a proposal that is as fair as rational, is that the Greeks and the Greeks benefit from living in a country that produces electricity the glazing through a Greek electric tariff that spoils the price of light. The Basques, Mr. Feijóo, have a cheaper electric fare for their businesses, which enables them to save millions of euros. But, of course, in Euskadi, they have a president who exercises as such, and in Galicia we have you. The other side of the coin are the large electricity multinationals: Endess, Iberdrola, Fenosa Natural Gas, which, if you do!, won over EUR 50 billion in profits during the economic crisis. They are the great beneficiaries of this energy model, centralist, full of privileges. You legislate in favor of the electric lobby and against the interests of the people and against the interests of this country. In return, the financing of the electricians plans where the funds of their parties come from, and the rotational doors do not provide enough to raise the former positions of the People's Party; the last plug: the energy expert Arsenio Fernández de Mesa. And this is what explains that you approve laws that allow electricians to cheat us as society and as a country. And I have to say, in this case, the People's Party and the Socialist Party are like two drops of water. First, it was the nuclear moratorium: 5.700 million more on the bill of light. Then came the so-called "transitional costs to competition" -- 6 billion euros more on the bill. The last one was the tariff deficit, we gave the electricity $25,000 million, which comes out of the pocket of the unemployed, of the pensioners, of the workers, because they go to their bill of light. Your particular contribution, Mr. Feijóo, was to cancel by sectarianism an absolutely legal wind competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u5	...which has paralyzed the sector and now causes us to be paying, with the money of everyone and of all, compensation to the companies you cancelled a contest in an absolutely arbitrary way. All this, Mr. Feijóo, which leads us to ask him: when will you stop defending the interests of the electricians and stand aside for the interests of the people of our country and Galicia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, indeed, Galicia is a producer of energy, of electricity; we are Spain's fourth autonomous community, with the largest production of electricity, the fourth. Therefore, Your Honor, as we are one of Spain's autonomous communities with greater energy production because we are logically benefiting from jobs and investment. In Galicia, 30,000 people work in the electric sector. As regards investment, we have just completed the repotencing of the two final corners of the Sil River: the San Estevo choir and the San Pedro choir, where 200 million euros were invested. At the thermal power station of the Bridges and in Meirama some 320 million euros must be invested before 2020. And by the way, annually they invest in Galicia to keep the electricity grid in perfect conditions a little over a hundred and twenty-five million euros a year. In relation to the wind competition, Your Honor, that you proposed, we actually cancelled the wind contest, because half of your government, half of the two-party government, said it was illegal, and we agreed in that case with half the two-party government that said it was illegal. That's why Galicia has now benefited 160 million euros from the wind canon, because you didn't charge the electrics; we do, Your Honor, 160 million euros in wind canon. Your Honor, this government, of course, does not defend any privilege. You know why? Because if we defend privileges we would be in opposition, as we do not defend privileges we are in government. And that's why, Your Honor, we're currently moving, defending the general interest of consumers, defending the general interest of the Greek homes to save on energy costs and, of course, defending those people who have difficulty in paying for light on a monthly basis. [[Applause]] Your Honor, do you know why we stand up for consumers? When the Industry Council was a nationalist, you opened nine sanctioning files to the power companies and with a penalty of 97,000 euros; we have opened to the electricity companies two thousand four hundred dossiers and a sanction of 23.8 million euros. Is it true that it is enough to say that if you want to talk about electrical privileges, you have to speak on a nationalist key, Your Honor? [[Applause]] To talk about working in favour of homes. Look, we've been giving home to the Greek subsidies to renew the windows, the elevators, the electrical installations; we've been taking about legislation over four thousand homes benefited with help to save energy costs, and since we got to government nothing more and nothing less than twenty if seven thousand Welsh homes had subsidies to reduce their electricity consumption. If you want to talk about energy poverty, I'm at your disposal. When you ruled, zero euros for energy poverty, zero; we six thousand homes. We are the Autonomous Community which first began to work against energy poverty, both with the social electric ticket and to avoid supply cuts. This year we have enough budget to meet all the requests. Your Honor, if you want to talk about privileges, when you supported socialist governments they subsidized power companies and gave them over twenty-six million euros, which must now be paid. It's more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u9	...and they were granted EUR 3,000 million of transaction costs to the competition. Mrs. Pontón, you have nothing else to look at in your seats. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u11	Mr Feijóo, if you want to talk about privileges, look around you in your party and see where some of the former presidents and ex-ministers sit, who have moved from the Council of Ministers to be part of the board of directors of these companies. [[Applause]] Indeed, Mr. Feijóo, if you want to have some credibility and really want to defend the interests of this country, you can't tell me that the energy problem in Galicia is solved by a social ticket, which knows that it doesn't reach 6% of potential beneficiaries and that they have put on such lionine conditions that very few people can access it even though they need it. Why don't you accept that we change the ticket criteria so that everyone who needs it, whether they have children or not, have people with disabilities or not, can access that help? But I think we can do more important things if we really have country ambitions. I invite you to add to BNG's proposals: Why don't we challenge that electric sector law which consolidates that we have to pay a tariff deficit that is a scam to society? Why don't we approve before we finish this summer a law in Galicia that forbids cuts of light and gas, so that no one is in the dark at home or going cold in winter? Why do you not allow Mr. Núñez Feijóo to join a large country agreement, so that all the hydroelectric concessions, which will expire in the coming years, will not be again from Iberdrola, Endesa, Fenosa Natural Gas, become public assets and therefore we benefit from the production of electricity, which will be used for the benefit of this country and not to continue to fatten the electric lobby? Mr. Núñez Feijóo, it doesn't seem to us that in Galicia we are benefiting from the production of electricity; the production of electricity, really, is only serving to fatten large companies, multinationals in the sector. If you want to do something useful for this country, follow these proposals, defend a Greek tariff that allows us to lose light, defends that you have to change the energy model and end the privileges of the electricians, defends the incompatibility between sitting in the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u13	...on the Council of Ministers and end up sitting on the board of directors of the electricians. The day you do that we'll give you some kind of credibility, because for now, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the only thing that has shown us your party is that in the end here it seems like they send more electricity than the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u15	Your Honor, nothing told me about Galicia being Spain's fourth power producer. Nothing told me, Your Honor, that we could therefore do among the autonomous communities of Spain, if each one has its own electrical policy that you propose. Aragon has a similar ratio, between the difference in production and consumption, of 151; it's exactly what Galicia has; Asturias has a more favourable ratio, 161; Castile and Lion are much more favourable, 227; Extremadura is triple than Galicia, 438. So, Your Honor, do you have exactly what you propose, that each autonomous community has a different electric tariff, is that what you propose? And what would we say, for example, to the people who live in Castile La Mancha, where in Guadalaxara there is a nuclear power plant and in Toledo there is not? So we're going to put the cheapest rate in Guadalaxara. And what do we tell Ferrol people? In Ferrol is not the thermal power station of the bridges, and in the bridges yes; in the cheapest power bridges and in the most expensive iron. By the way, Your Honor, I am a population, The Pearls, where we have three cheers. Do you think it would be nice if we didn't pay for the light? Well, maybe in my locality, Your Honor, we already know that these things don't fit. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, you're here to talk about what's wrong with you. But what happens is that the Greeks think and say, and how do we do this, that we make each province something different, each autonomous community something different? Ah!, it goes through autonomous communities. Look, Fierabrás' balsam has been invented a long time ago, it's a nickname that has a solution for everything. Nationalist proposals look like that, Your Honor. What happens is that people realize that it doesn't matter. That's what we do. When you talk about the quality of electricity supply you should know that the quality of electricity supply in Galicia is better than in Spain. Yes, Your Honor, yes, you look at the Spanish Electric Network, consult and see that both in time of interruptions and in number of interruptions, in recent years — by the way — since we're running — electricity quality is better in Galicia than in Spain. Your Honor, you're talking about a lot of things, about the Basque electric fare. You know that's not true. No, no, you know it's not true. [[Murmurs.]] You know it's absolutely not true, that the Basque tariff is exactly the same as the rest of the Spanish tariffs. And to say here that the Basques benefit from a fee is simply a lack of respect for the truth and a lack of respect for all the Greeks. And that's why I literally deny it, Your Honor. [[Applause]] You're not telling the truth. And here they don't come to tell stories. Mrs. Pontón, you've managed the Industry Council, it's a stage they want to delete. How many taxes did you charge the electrics? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Zero; this government, 160 million euros. How many files have you opened to the electricians? Your Honor, nine; we, two thousand and four hundred files open to the electrics. [[Murmurs.]] How many homes did you help when you ruled? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Zero; we six thousand homes with electric ticket or electrical aids. Your Honor, the Greeks regretted that the nationalists ruled in Galicia and wanted to change, and that's why they changed democratically and legitimately. And his words go on one side and Galicia's reality goes on the other. You defend your ideology over Galicia's interests, and we defend Galicia's interests over any ideological approach.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u17	And that's the big difference between this government and its government, Your Honor, between this government and its government. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, if the credibility we measured in figures, we'd say: nine files to the electrics, the BNG, two thousand four hundred files to the People's Party of Galicia. With this, Your Honor, it's all said. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the action to be carried out in Cunta de Galicia in relation to the public job offer of education for the year 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u19	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u20	Mr President, you will understand that we are concerned about employment, because there are 146,800 jobs less than in 2008 in Galicia, after eight years of its government, but we are also concerned about precariousness, because there are fewer jobs, but there are more contracts, because they are part-time and temporary. Of the approximately 800,000 contracts in 2008, 66,000 were undefined in full-time. Of the 944,000 of 2016, they are only undefined full-time 43,000, the rest are temporary or part-time. This deterioration in the quality of employment also affects public services. Resettlement rates forced adjustment of wage spending in recruitment of staff. Its continuity is excessive. Year after year drives privatization, often referred to as "externalization of services", precariousness and deterioration in the quality of public services. This corset must be removed; that instrument must be removed which prevents youth entering work from having a stable future within the Public Service; that youth must be given an alternative of stability at least in the public domain. And in this context there is the ceremony of confusion with the 2017 education OPE. You participated, as a pawn, in that kind of chess game where Mr. Montoro posed a Sicilian opening with the OPE of the various autonomous communities. Montoro said: either you approve my budget or there will be no public job offer. Today that little farce is disassembled. The Autonomous Basque Community, as it is well known, has been summoned since February to the 2017 Education OPE, without the Central Government doing anything to prevent it. And today, there is this kind of idilium, which I called the other day as this "spring roll" between the PNV and the PP, for the purposes of approval of the assumptions in the Autonomous Basque Community and in Madrid, because it seems impossible that there is an appeal by the central government. Why can the Basque Government convene the 2017 Education OPE without problems and Galicia? I'm going to tell you, because the German Government was making necessary complicity with Montoro. It also seems that the Central Government is considering the processing of a royal decree on replacement fees. The first question we ask is, if it was necessary, why didn't you do it before, why didn't you do it on January 1st or even December 31st last year? The answer is also easy: because the central government, first, acted as a piroman for now trying to act as a fireman. But the truth is that there is no fire, there is smoke, there is fog, but there is no fire, because the legal framework of 2016's extended budgets allowed OPE to be convened as early as 1 January, because it was already done in 1996 and 2012. Experts indicate that's the case. You can't exceed 100 percent of the replacement rate, but you can call the public job offer. The real decree law is only useful if it allows you to overcome the corset of replacement rates. And that would be necessary to reduce instability and precarious employment, to strengthen the quality of public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u22	...to recover the level of public employment that we need to care for our citizens well. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, are you willing to travel swiftly and decisively on that path? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u23	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u24	Thank you very much. Yes, yesterday it started in spring, but I remind you that in Euskadi, PNV reigns with the Socialist Party of Basquedi, okay? So, I don't know if that's a spring roll or something else, Mr. Leicega, but it's not appropriate to be confused with who rules everyone. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, I would like to make it clear on this occasion that your group gives me to determine what our position is. Look, Your Honor, in the public job offers Galicia is working normally, first point. Secondly, we have always made it clear that we want to call the public job offer, and in fact the unions know which places we want to take. For example, in education we have already met at the sectoral table and we have proposed to them the public offer of employment. And, of course, Your Honor, we are in a position to call the public job offer immediately. You and I are convinced that it is essential to call a public job offer to have 100 percent legal security. The Government has just notified us that it is the will of the Government of Spain to send to the House a royal decree to provide legal security to the public offer of employment of education. If this is so, as expected by the Government, which notifys the Councillor for Culture and Education only a few days ago, in April the Council of Galicia will convene the public offer of employment for education. So, Your Honor, you're a person who knows the legal world, it's hard for me to understand the hurry I make. You will recall that in 2012 the Andalusian Autonomous Community made a public job offer, was appealed to the Constitutional Court and had to cancel the current public job offer. You won't propose that I do the same for your Andalusian colleagues. Tell me why this autonomous community prays for the interests of the central government. Look, Your Honor, do you not know that the autonomous socialist communities are not going to call public job offer, as they say? They decided not to convene Castile-A Mancha, Extremadura, Aragon, Navarre, Asturias. He's already announced he won't call Valencia. Your Honor, do these autonomous communities of the Socialist Party follow the dictates of Mr. Montoro or follow the dictates of legal security advisable in any act of a public administration, much more if they have external consequences such as thousands of opponents, who can leave their examinations on average because the summons are not in accordance with the right? There are eleven autonomous communities in Spain that have already stated that they will not call public employment offer, eleven; most of them socialist. Mr. Leicega, what part of the Socialist Party are we talking about? We won't waste our time, Mr. Leicega. You and I, you and this group, I suppose the whole House, agree to call the public job offer. In April we will convene the public job offer of the Education Council. They are 1,043 squares: secondary education, 540; vocational training, 80; teachers, 400; teachers of Music and Performing Arts, 23. Total, 1,043 public education squares in Galicia, public job offer 2017. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this is what we want to do. And I am convinced, Mr. Leicega, that if you had the responsibility I have, I would be doing exactly the same. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u26	Won't you deny me that political approach between the PNV and the People's Party because it's public domain? In any case, I'll tell you: I speak from Galicia and from the Socialist Party of Galicia. I understand perfectly that there are autonomous communities that normally decide in exercise of their autonomy not to summon a public job offer, I can criticize them or not; in any case, it's their autonomy. The problem is that you said from the beginning -- it's true -- that they wanted to call her. So what I'm saying is that they wanted to call her, summon her. They raise an argument for legal certainty, but look at it: the royal decree is in force since the government approves it, but it must be validated by Congress, and recent events say that you do not have the assurance that your decrees prosper. Therefore, legal security is limited. Secondly, it may happen that Congress also approves the transformation of that royal decree into a legislative project that has to be processed in Congress, and that takes us to the month of June. I hope that this royal decree is passed by Congress and substantially improved, just to eliminate the replacement rates, which would give not only an opportunity to draw, i.e. to freeze the precariousness at levels that are at the end of 2016, but also to reduce them. And that's what I want you to do. They eliminate with political pressure the repositioning rates introduced by the Central Government, in order to substantially reduce the precariousness of public employment, even to place it — it has given it a reference — at 3% within three years, below 3%; a minimum flexibility necessary because continence occurs throughout the exercise. But, in any case, you didn't answer me a key question, which is, why didn't the Central Government make that same movement from the beginning of January and we would have eliminated any kind of uncertainty right now because that whole procedure of processing the royal decree concluded? That's why he didn't give me any answers. And secondly, and lastly, in this respect, it's not just about summoning the OPEs, it's about concluding them. Trade union information tells us that of the thousand and peak squares that have been gathering you since the year 2012, only 43 are finished, 3% of the total. If that's your concern about eliminating precariousness in public employment, I think they should change. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. You know, Your Honor, that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has maintained the stability of public employment, that is, the real real payrolls we have paid at the end of the month since the beginning of the great recession and the economic crisis. In 2008 when we arrived at the government we paid 86,858 monthly payrolls and are now paying 86,818 monthly payrolls. It wasn't so in most autonomous communities, Your Honor; it wasn't even so in the state administration, it wasn't even so in the local government of Galicia. So for all this time we have been asking for great efforts from public employees in the field of pay, in return if we have a stable employment in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the most stable autonomous communities in Spain. If you want to look at the rate of temporality, the average of autonomous communities in the public sector is 20.5%, in Galicia 14%; for example, Asturias is 25.3%. So the rate of employment timeliness in Galicia, public employment, is again the lowest in Spain. If you want to talk about the rate of interinternity in education, the average of the autonomous primary communities is 23.8% and in Galicia 9%, and in secondary school on average is 28% and in Galicia 14%. We are once again the Autonomous Community with fewer inter-intervention rates in Spain's education. That's why I'm surprised, Mr. Leicega, that when you want to speak on behalf of the Socialist Party of Galicia and when you don't speak what the central government should do, you don't worry about what you do when you rule in the autonomous communities. It's a bit of a position — I would say — of leader, of saying, look, I don't care what others do, I'm talking about here. Well, if you're talking about it, let's talk about it, Your Honor. And Galicia has today the lowest rate of interinternity in Spanish education and has the rate of temporality throughout the public sector well below the average of the rest of the autonomous communities. And Galicia's going to call for elections, excuse me, call for opposition in education... Don't worry, Your Honor... Don't worry. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] We're going to give everyone time to get him together and we can do that when he touches, Your Honor, by 2020. [[Applause]] There's no problem. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, but we know that Galicia is the Autonomous Community with more teachers per student -- that's a good data, you who are a teacher should evaluate it -- if we are the Autonomous Community with more teachers per student, and we are the Autonomous Community that has improved all its ratios: in school dropout we are with the lowest since there are records, we have passed the PISA report in the middle of Spain and we have passed the PISA report in the middle of the OECD, except in a subject. So we're on our way, Mr. Leicega. Now, I don't hide from you that you have made me worried, because you tell me that, careful!, the real decree of law has to validate it and that the Socialist Party with the real decree of public job offer disagrees. And therefore you tell me: watch out for this legal security! What are we left with, Mr. Leicega? Are there legal security or are there no legal security? You're in favour of the public job offer, so aren't you going to validate the public job offer in the General Courts, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u29	Finish, please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u30	Look, Mr. Leicega, your reaction is very surprising. It's as if they told you -- you told me today -- you seek a solution not to depend on the irresponsibility of the opposition; you see what they do but with us does not contain any responsible decision.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u32	Mr. Leicega, this doesn't seem right for you to tell me here in public. That's why we're going to consider that in the same way that they were wrong in the summer they accept the public job offer. Don't play, Your Honor, with the ports of Spain,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u34	...with the Spanish economy, with the Greek economy, and do not play with the opponents of education in Galicia and Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece with regard to the additional financing mechanisms used in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u36	Question by the spokesperson of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u37	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, today we are going to start out in an unusual way for you, beginning with congratulations because the Board announced last Thursday that it was requesting a loan from the Financial Facility Fund to the Autonomous Communities worth EUR 1,191 million, which – also announced the Board of Board of Directors – will entail a savings for the Greek vessels of EUR 112.5 million. So congratulations on that operation. And the question is, why didn't you do it before, in the years 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, when the interest was much higher than at this time and there were already public funding mechanisms?, why didn't you go to them before? There were funding needs on the part of the Autonomous Community and, therefore, it could either go to the mechanisms that put the State or to the private bank, it could go to one or the other. Now he decides to turn to the public mechanisms and at his own time he decides to go to the private bank. What was the difference between a moment and another? The state made available to autonomous communities EUR 216,000 during that period, from which Galicia only benefited at its moment of EUR 6 billion, 2.8 % of the total. A report drawn up, not by us, but by the Ministry of Business, explains what the advantages of being subject to one system or another over these years. This meant for the autonomous communities that assumed the public funding fund against the private bank a saving of EUR 44,000 million in interest on going to the private bank. Of these 44 billion euros, Galicia only benefited in 126, that is, in less than 1% of that total benefit. And we kept wondering why and what was the reason for preferring one way rather than another. The big question, first of all, which underlies here, is: why did the Government of Greece prefer to fund itself with the private bank rather than with public funding, when the private bank had higher types of interest than the public funding mechanisms established by the State offered? We'd like to know the reason for that. And this has given rise, as the Ministry of Farm's own report shows, to an overcost for the Welsh arks of several hundred million euros. Several hundred million euros have been lost for investment in people, for investment in education, for investment in health and for investment in employment policies that we are still suffering today. It would only be a political reason to think about this, and it was the conditions that were imposed on public funding mechanisms in relation to those of the private bank. But, however, if we go to the State financing regulations of the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, we see that in the case of Galicia, as it was already meeting the requirements of financial conditionality, no additional conditions would be imposed on it. So there wasn't any kind of conditioner that made it hard to go to that bottom and not do it in the private bank. Therefore, the question is very clear, it is why we went to the private bank rather than to go to the public funding funds, why we had to pay this over cost. How much did it cost us all the Greeks and all the Greeks for your image operation to say that Galicia didn't go to the public funding fund, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u38	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Replies from the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u39	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Indeed, since 2015, the Board of Trustees has visited the Financial Facility Fund. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because it was created in 2015. We couldn't go to a fund that didn't exist. If you ask me why we do not go to the Liquidity Fund, I tell you that because we are not involved; because we want to maintain the financial protection of the Autonomous Community; because we do not want the Ministry of Business to tell us who is paid, how it is paid, what order and what is the protocol; because we want, gentlemen, to continue to meet the public deficit and keep the public debt, the lowest growth since the year 2008 in Spain. So, Your Honor, I am surprised that you now tell me why we don't ask for the ransom, a little question that you should ask in 2009. Do you know why we don't ask for the ransom? Because we don't want to be rescued. And you know what happened? That we were able not to be rescued all these years. And there are two autonomous communities in Spain, removing communities with coupons or concerts, which are Canary Islands and Galicia. And that's why it surprises us, Your Honor, that you want to be like the autonomous communities that can't afford payrolls, that they couldn't pay drugs, that they couldn't pay non-contributory pensions and that they asked the Central Government for bail. Galicia, all this time, paid the payrolls, paid the pharmacies, paid the suppliers normally and wasn't rescued. That's called self-government. I know your ideology is different for you depending on the geographic latitude you're talking about, but we believe in the country's self-government, Your Honor. Why? Because we believe in our country. And as our country believes in us, we're not going to ask for Galicia's ransom anywhere. [[Applause]] Now, Your Honor, if you put me as an example to the autonomous communities that came to the FLA, you can also set me as an example of the ratio of public debt that these autonomous communities have and the ratio of public debt per inhabitant. What do you prefer?, the situation of Valencia, Andalusia, Castela-A Mancha, Murcia, Baleares, Catalonia, or the situation of Galicia in terms of public debt and debt per inhabitant? Mr. Villares, what is your proposal, to have Andalusia's public debt on a per capita basis, do you like Murcia's, Balearics', Catalonia's? Look, Your Honor, in 2012, one of your leaders is now in Madrid, for he said: you, at the end of the 2012 campaign, will go to the Liquidity Fund. Yes, Your Honor. This is 2017, we didn't go to the Liquidity Fund. We turn to the Financial Facility Fund because there are only two communities that meet these requirements: Galicia and the Canary Islands. The savings we are taking now with the Financial Facility Fund are EUR 344 million. Whenever we want, we go out, and when we don't, we keep ourselves; there's no conditionality. The rest of the autonomous communities are subject to the criteria of the Ministry of Labour. If your proposal, Your Honor, is to be like Greece, that is, to ask for the ransom to the European Union; we will not ask the ransom to the central government, because Galicia is currently standing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u41	...we've been standing during the economic recession and, of course, we're going to be standing during the growing phase. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, you have here the regulation of the FLA, you have here, and nowhere does it have to be an interview to be able to come to him. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Explain the article where you say you need to be intervened to get to the bottom, you have it here, it's very easy, if you don't do it now, you can do it in the next intervention. Meanwhile, what happened here was the following: the Autonomous Community of Galicia went to private funding, for example, in 2013, with interest rates of 5.7 or 6.1 — it is information from the Banco de España on January 29, 2013 — while in the same period the interest offered by the FLA was 3.91%, i.e., a differential of almost three points, of higher interest we are paying the Greeks and the Greeks now for their unconsciousness, for not having gone to a public funding fund, which existed at that time and for which it was not necessary to be intervened. So you could have come in a much more beneficial way for all of Galicia to this bottom. You didn't do it for a reason: I didn't want to go and say we're not involved. But it is that the premise of initial reasoning was false, there was no need to be intervened to come to this. Why do we have to pay a differential which means an additional expenditure of hundreds of millions of euros so that you would have carried out an image campaign saying that we are not involved, when it was still known that we were not, but we could also access the Liquidity Fund? That's the question you have to answer. Do you know how many millions of euros we need for everyone to know? You went to that market with 7 billion euros of loans, you asked for 7 billion euros of loan to the banks, 7 billion euros to the banks!, and you could take those 7 billion euros from the FLA, with an average difference of three points. How many schools could we now have opened up if it were for that?, how many hospitals could we have the biggest function?, how many larger hospital beds?, how much more would you work?, how many more active employment policies?, how many more social integration policies?, how many more return emigrant policies?, how many more equality policies for women and men? All this is done for your unconsciousness, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u45	Mr. Villares, do you really say publicly here that the autonomous communities that went to the FLA were not involved? Don't you know that one of the mandatory FLA mechanisms is that payments have to be authorized by the Ministry of Business? In other words, you believe that an Autonomous Community is not intervened despite the fact that it has no capacity to pay an invoice, and that it has to authorize that payment from the Ministry of Business. [[Murmurs.]] What would happen if we asked for the ransom, Mr. Villares?, what would your proposal be in connection with this matter? Mr. Villares, the problem is that you have no proposals. When you weren't here and you were elsewhere, it turns out that I was told that you had to lower the public debt, but when we approved the budgets you were proposing amendments to increase the public debt, but in the same act, don't worry, eh! As a spokesperson for that group of Podemos tides, you said in the House that you used to spend more on equality, and I showed you that it's fake. You also said in this House fifteen days ago that we have reduced the number of medical personnel, doctors, thousands of teachers, and now we have just specified the number of payrolls we are paying: 86,818, Mr. Villares; exactly the same. Look, there's still a lot to go on with you, Your Honor, there's still a lot to go on. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u47	Look, Your Honor, the autonomous communities that came to the FLA are intervened, point. They have to request permission from the Ministry of Property to make payments for their treasury. Ask Mr. But or Mr. Puigdemont to see what they say, Your Honor. Mr. Villares, with all due respect, we ask the Government of Spain, because if we are in part in accordance with your assertions... Don't worry, Your Honor, I hope this doesn't remain credibility in your group given the great brotherhood in which they live. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Laughter]] I say, Your Honor, that as we agree in part with your proposals we have told the Government: believe you a fund for the communities we meet, that is, without any conditionant, and be able to enter when we love you. And that, Your Honor, has now brought us EUR 344 million in savings. Secondly, if you've studied a little bit about how the public debt in Galicia will be handled, in this year 2017 50% of the total public debt in Galicia will already be in the Facility Fund, zero interest. And at the end of the legislation we will be 70% of the total public debt of the Autonomous Community in the Facility Fund, zero interest. You didn't throw those accounts, did you, Mr. Villares? That's the problem with what the accounts do to you, which tells you one part and the other part of the accounts doesn't. And when the accounts become accounts, it turns out, Your Honor, that they are stories, they're not accounts. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what's your model? Tell me what your model is in case we might be interested in it. When you rule in the autonomous communities you increase the public deficit, increase the debt and are intervened. Yes, Your Honor, they are intervened. It's amazing that you don't talk to your Aragon elders, your Valencian elders, so they can tell you they're involved. [[Murmurs.]] Look, in Catalonia the debt, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u48	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u49	...the debt is EUR 74,000 million, and the debt per Catalan is EUR 9,890; in Galicia, 3,900.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u51	Valencian debt is 8,700; Galician debt is 3,900. In Balearics, 7,800 euros per citizen of Balearics; in Galicia, 3,900. In Castela-A Mancha, 6,800 euros per Spanish; in Galicia, 3,900. What do you propose to me, Your Honor, that you owe the Autonomous Community to ask for the ransom? Mr. Villares, that economic policy will always be in opposition in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the third point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and three other Members, on the establishment by the Government of the Italian Government of the public service of harbour dredging and other areas of the public domain maritime-terrestrial in the autonomous community of Galicia, as well as the acquisition of a drena vessel for this purpose
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u53	We are now debating that of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Merlo Lorenzo. It presented an amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and to another of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u54	Mr Merlo has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. An important part of our ports, both those of the Lucense Navy and the rest of the coast, has a continuous problem, which is the lack of silence for the use for which they were conceived, which leads the boats to have difficulties of looting or departure, especially when we are at the moment of unloading. This happens, for example, in many ports, but not Foz is a case that has been repeated for a long time. This even leads to the docking points being unserviceable for any of the usual practices. It's a problem that's not a conjunctive, it's a structural problem. This lack of silence affects a lot of ports that are within the competence of the Union throughout the Greek coast. The activities of the main country such as fishing, but even others such as recreation nautical activity or commercial activities, are often being affected by this lack of silence from our ports, which usually require a continuous dredging activity of the same ones that are not often being carried out in times and means which would therefore be required. In this sense, numerous confrereries of fishermen and other professional sea associations have been pronounced for a more durable solution to quickly, efficiently and economically shorten the dredging needs of our coastal ports. Other autonomous communities in situations similar to Galicia, but even with less space and fewer ports in the river areas, such as the Principality of Asturias, have autonomous dredgings to meet these functions. Along its 1,720 kilometers of coastline, Galicia has 129 ports. The Council of Galicia, through the public body Ports of Galicia, registered to the Councillory of the Sea, directly manages 122 of them. The other six, of a greater dimension and general interest of the State, depend on the Ministry of Development and are managed by five port authorities, which are that of Vigo, that of Marín, that of Vilagarcia, that of Coruña, that of Ferrol and that of San Cibrao. With this data, both in direct management and in relation to ports managed by the State, the establishment of a public dredging service that had a ship dedicated to this task would be very useful and economically profitable. We could even save not only money in carrying out these maintenance and dredging tasks, but we could even lease these services to other communities that required it, which would be a public investment that would revert to a generation of benefits. A dragonship of these characteristics would simply have a crew around three or six crew members, depending on its characteristics. Therefore, it would be perfectly profitable to maintain it throughout the year. Therefore, and on the basis of these issues, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea puts forward the following non-legislative proposal: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to establish the public service of harbour dredging and other spaces of the maritime-terrestrial public domain in the autonomous community of Galicia and to acquire a dragon vessel for this purpose." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u56	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u57	Good day to all and all. Few are the wharves of Galicia and areas of our rivers with problems of mud and sediments that cause difficulties: lack of silence, difficulty accessing the springs in cases or unable to enter or exit during the low tides, practically unused pants, impracticable ports in low tides, activity totally conditioned by the presence and increase of mud and sand. And there are many demands for solutions, many of which have been debated in this Parliament, because this situation has an impact on productive activity, the activity of sailors, seafarers and also on the activity of sports practice and leisure. This situation produces economic prejudices and also causes risk situations and insecurity, because we can't go any further to see what they have to suffer in the port of Laxe every time there's something temporary, that they have to take their ships to Camarinas. There are requests for solutions from the confrries, from the municipalities, from various associations and from nautical clubs for a solution. Requests for solutions to the Pontevedra River, the Burgo, Ferrol River, the Foz, Laxe, Ribadeo, Viveiro, Celero, Burela. I mean, we're dealing with an issue that affects an important part. They are long demanded projects in many cases, and in many cases with studies carried out, with splits contemplated in budgets, but then not implemented. At the BNG we are aware that we are facing a complex issue. These are complicated projects that need to be implemented by demanding regulations, and we agree that we must do so, that dragons have environmental impacts, on the marine environment, on the quality of the waters, on possible impacts on marine banks, and that there are risks that dragons can mobilize contaminant substances, which can dissolve in the waters and affect the nearby areas, the marine banks, the fauna of other areas, and that there must be strict management of the sludges that are extracted. Clearly, dragons must be part of integral projects, which in many cases have to go beyond that dredging and must be accompanied by environmental regenerating plans. But we also believe that it must be compatible to combine economic activity with environmental protection, with environmental care, which must be explored all possibilities before the dredging takes place. And once it has been concluded that in order to develop this economic activity there is no other solution than to make dredgings, because we believe that these demands must be met, which we believe are reasonable and fair in most cases motivated by serious economic prejudice to the maritime sector. We therefore support the initiative that such work must be done — and everything indicates that there are demands in many parts of our coast — that it should be done from the public and from the Galician Union itself with its own means. We have made an amendment in the sense that it should be done and done within a period of time, because we approve here initiatives not even if we put a time limit on them, even setting a time limit after that do not take effect, because it is done, it is analyzed and done, and it is done this year 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. This initiative is due today at a very convenient time, because we're in spring. And as we said yesterday in spring, the illusions come to the ports, which are waiting for these dredgings year after year, spring after spring, and they do not arrive. That's why we present our amendment, because it seems to us better a matter of political will; a problem that depends on the interests, because these dragons have more or less chances of going out ahead, go or not. We talked yesterday about the port of Spasante, which seems to us a very serious problem, because, as we said, there are even insurance companies that do not cover the ships if they are in the port of Spasante, and that the floats also touch the area with the low tide and there is no silence. There's not enough silence, not even enough for the crane that was there and the ships to have security conditions and they might be under the crane for their smoothing. Conditions are serious. And in this case this dredging is paralyzed because in 2014 it seems that a castre has appeared, since 2014, so this is paralyzed. We have the theme of Laxe, which was said here yesterday that he was very fond of, that they wanted him at the port of Laxe. I think sailors and sailors are not lacking in love, what they need are solutions that guarantee them that they will perform their duties in security. That's what you're asking. Mr. President of Ports said, "I hope and wish that the laxe dredging will be ready for this same year." So do we, but the deadlines don't match, the deadlines between the spills that have been here that don't match. But the sad thing is that you're talking about the dredging and finally you're not talking about the definitive solution to the port and the beach. The dredging at the end is a patch that won't take anywhere. But as we talk about it, we don't talk about anything else, and that's the problem. In the line of Pontevedra, because from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe that there is a need for a dredging in the line of Pontevedra about five kilometers in the navigation channel, because this is an old demand of the Naval Club, because every time the tides of the ships fall, they are swept away. Moreover, from the confrereries of Poio and Pontevedra claim that the work could serve to recover old shellfish banks and re-regine others. At Foz, seventy boats waiting for a dredging. In Ferrol's creek, in Burgo's creek, and so on, and so on. That's why we present our amendment, because it seems to us to be a matter of political will rather than of means; it seems to us that there is no intention of solving these dredgings, making excuses and waiting, and so the deadlines go. And in our amendment, what we've established, first, is to draw up a map reflecting ports with dredging needs in the autonomous community of Galicia, as well as a study on the most efficient way to address those needs. And in the second point, to draw up a plan that sets out the measures, the budget, the execution deadlines and the means to solve the deficiencies in ports managed through the public entity Ports of Galicia, including, where appropriate, the possible establishment of the port dredging service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u61	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you, President. Mrs. Toja, no excuses or wait, yesterday the lady counselor was here and spoke clearly on this subject. Well, the problem of the lack of silence in the ports, as well expressed here, is a problem that often comes from the effect of currents, movements caused on many occasions by rivers, by temporals. But not all ports in Galicia have this problem, many have this problem, but not all ports in Greece have this problem. Ports of Galicia is perfectly aware of this situation, it is carrying out activities and projects to increase the silence in many of them. That's why he's been processing many dredging works in more than a dozen docks. We can quote here — as they have said — Laxe, who is one of the most needed at this time, Foz, Campolo, Carinho, Vilaxoán, Ribado, and we could quote here more than a dozen docks, in addition to those already made at Foz — two dragons — in Ribadeo, in Moaña in Con, Vilaxoán and Burela. And in addition to the dredgings, concrete works were also done in rocky areas that need to be flying and require another specific activity, not just dredging. That's why it's also necessary on many occasions to talk about the technical and procedural issues you talked about here yesterday as well. The proceedings in this type of work are very important, because those who spoke here — the voices of the different parties — will know that the line between a dredging work and the environmental respect is very weak, is very thin, but none of the parameters can be broken. So it's been almost two years of processing on many occasions to comply with all environmental regulations to do these dredging works. But of course the People's Party and of course the Galician Union are fully aware of this issue and are working on it. That's why they know that 95% of the time of a dredging work is processing. So it's not to simplify too much, it seems to us very simplistic a PNL that says a dredging boat could solve the problem. That doesn't solve the dredging problem in Galicia. We, the People's Party, are presenting ourselves with a rigorous and consistent fishing programme for the sector. We had two important points in this field: one was to make a specific dredging plan — which is what is being done, and processing many works — and another was to work to speed up administrative processing, which is really one of the great problems that the dredging works have in the autonomous community, both in Galicia and elsewhere. Because, since you're talking about other autonomous communities, we're going to talk here a little bit about the lack of rigour in this PNL, too, because it's not adapted to the Greek reality. In Asturias they have two dragon boats and they don't solve the problems, they're almost permanently working in the rivers of Navia, Pravia and Ribadeo and they don't solve the problem. In Llanes the sailors themselves say it's a system that's not operational, and yet on top of it they have to hire other dredging works by areas that have more rocky stones. It's just that it's not as simple a problem as buying a dragon. In Asturias there are 18 ports and two dragons. In Galicia you ask for a dredging boat, but we enter 122 dependent ports of Galicia, autonomic management. So in proportion, we should have at least 13 dredging boats to avoid comparative harm. But it is that you always make citizens of the first and second centuries, and now with this PNL ports of the first and second ports, because only all the needs of which we are perfectly aware of in the People's Party, in the parliamentary group and in the Council of Galicia, of course. In the Basque Country they bought a dredging boat. It cost them 10 million euros, it was 18 months tied to the port and they had to sell it, auction it, at an exit price of 8 million euros, but they ended up selling it for 7 million euros and they didn't solve the problem. Therefore, some examples of management of other autonomous communities are being copied and taken from the LNP, because it is better to be successful and not to be fraud or failure, because the Basque Country has been a wasteland and it has been a failed project. We already have backup in the polls, because management seems to be good, that of the People's Party. We want to copy cases of success, not cases of failure, other autonomous communities. In this case it is clear that we find it to be an unrealistic and dubious proposal for return in Galicia and, therefore, we are not going to approve it. We will continue to support a concrete dredging plan and according to the needs of the Greek ports and we will continue to work to speed up the procedures of those works, because it is true that environmental processing in this case is complicated, but we must respect the environment first, because if we solve one problem, we don't move forward. So — we insist — we have studied some of the amendments and proposals made by the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, but we believe that one radically changes the essence of this LNP, so in that case we would not accept any change. In the case of the Block, we believe it's very similar to what En Marea says and it doesn't look like an effective system; and since it failed in other autonomous communities, we can't accept it in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u63	Thank you very much. Let's see, the dredging, the dragons have different capabilities, different tones, different extractive capabilities. There are obviously differences between the characteristics of dragon boats and there are also differences in the ability to develop certain issues. Therefore, the problem of Asturias is much quieter than that. One of the dragons that acquired Asturias—if we want to get on that subject—has had serious problems in his design, has been defective, has been more than a year stopped, etc. But, of course, it's not an example, that's something that's wrong. The question that we are moving here is that in the strategic plan that was presented by the Government until 2020, if we consider many actions that can result from the more or less continued use of dragons. On the other hand, we have very clear - as the partner of the Galician Nationalist Block said - that dragons are not a last-to-nothing solution, they are part of a solution. We must always keep in mind the very rigorous, very strict environmental reports within the framework of European legislation, as to when it is feasible or not and when it is possible or not to make a dragon. It's not dredging. What we are proposing here is that, in fact — as your lordship, Mrs Egerique, puts it — we have to do a lot of dragon actions. We're attacking them and we're going to hit them. The cost is more or less justified in that case. We're talking about dragons who, even though they were tied in port eight months a year, would have a fixed crew of three people. That wouldn't be the problem. Anyway, on that line we could accept both the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego and the amendment of the PSdeG, but we would do it not as a substitute but as an addition, adding the two points they move, which would be to draw up a map reflecting ports with dredging needs in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as well as a study on the most efficient success of meeting those needs. We understand that this is a matter — so you move — that is already being done, that study, etc., with which it would also be acceptable. And it also elaborates a plan that sets out the budget measures, the execution deadlines and the means to solve existing deficiencies in ports managed through the public entity of Ports de Galicia. And we would delete the last part of the text, because it would overlap with the other requests we make in our proposal. I don't have much more to add to that. If I want to reflect and make it clear that, of course, it is not the same problem in the Navy to be seen, where dredgings are more or less a maintenance for the quiet of these ports, that if it is a question that is feasible and palpable and that it does not lead to studies of negative environmental impact most of the time because there are no toxic sludges or any of that, because it is more open sea, etc., and another thing is the problem of internal rivers, which already have important environmental problems and in which, of course, dredging is not a solution at least in the first round. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u64	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the execution by the Galician Union in 2017 of the works of the Plan de regádio da Comarca da Limia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u65	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u66	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u67	Thank you, President. Today we bring this initiative to demand that we comply immediately with the Plan of Modernization of the Regiment of the Comarca da Limia, projected and promised, as you know, for many years. This issue, the modernization of irrigation, has an important impact on the economy of the area and, in fact, there are statements in this respect by representatives of all parliamentary groups in this House. It was even declared of general interest by Law 51/2007 of 26 December of the general budgets of the State for the year 2018. And that's right, among other things, because we're in front of one of our country's districts where the agricultural and livestock sector is one of the cornerstones for local development, not only at the economic level but also at the social and cultural level. In fact, it is still known by all — as I said — the strong agricultural dependence of the region, since a very important part of the working population works in the primary sector. And despite the fact that, as I said, on many occasions we talked about the need to carry out these works urgently, in practice we can check very easily how this was only empty promises, without any real content in all these years. And we're not going back much ago, but just to speak of the year 2011 -- the promises have arrived before, but already in January 2011 -- announced the partnership framework agreement for the modernization of irrigation in Galicia, in particular those contemplated in the National Hydrological Plan located in some regions, of which, of course, was The Limit. This agreement was signed between the Ministry of the Environment and Rural and Marine Environment through the State Agricultural Infrastructure Society and the Galician Union. And when this agreement was signed here in Compostela, it was just celebrated as a great advance, and it was announced how the performances would benefit about 6,800 hectares. And he spoke of the year 2015 as the horizon to have finished these works. It was also noted that this agreement was accompanied by an overall investment of 46.5 million euros provided by the Central Government, the Galician Union and the Community of Regantes. It should be noted that of these 46 million and a half, the Ministry would finance the works by 41%, the Unity of Galicia would do so by 22%, 27% would come from the Feder funds and only 10% would come from the irrigation communities; and in addition, this 10% would be amortized in twenty-five years. In spite of this, in 2012 it was intended to modify these issues so that the claimants took up 25 per cent of the payments in a single payment which, of course, made it difficult for many farmers to take care of these payments. This, however, was said in 2011. In 2014, in the absence of the development of these works, the Government of Mariano Rajoy gave two reasons to the questions raised at Congress for the paralysis of these important works: the first of the reasons was the usual, budgetary adjustment, budget difficulties; the second reason rightly referred to the need for the development of the said convention signed in Santiago de Compostela to be done through the elaboration of specific agreements for each action envisaged. It is true that this is the case, but in all these years — six — a legislation and a half of the People's Party, none of these agreements have been carried out and the only thing they have done — from our point of view — has been to pass the problem between the Ministry and the Council of Galicia, blocking the situation and making it difficult for it to be resolved. Although the promise of this project has been a constant over the years — as I said — it should be noted that 2015, just this year, it was noted that they were near the autonomous elections — it was the President of the Galician Union himself who promised to carry out this project; a project that had three water extraction points and that — it should be underlined — had an estimated cost of EUR 27 million and a project of which today only one study has been conducted that cost nothing more and nothing less than EUR 500,000. Also the advisor herself, Mrs. Ángeles Vázquez, and also in 2015, moved the request again in November of the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment to finance the Limit's irrigation project. The contradictions to these declarations of good intentions came in the budgets this year, when of the 27 million euros that you say you need, the expansion of the 2017 Galician Board of Directors leaves the big figure for the country's 1.5 million round of irrigation plan, of which a third part is just to develop the project. As we see, the figures don't match, and we're not saying the figures — as I was saying — the millions of euros that were needed were said by the government itself. We have to say, in addition, that the situation is unsustainable because the unusual fact is that while the Galician Union is in breach of its commitments, the public authorities have no right to sanction the fines of high amounts every year and that are rising every year. The Galician Union does not meet its commitments, but on the one hand, it has no problem allowing the Hydrographic Confederation if it is penalizing farmers in the area year after year, who literally have to run away to water, because obviously they are not taking water to enrich themselves, they take water to water and survive their work. For all this, the amendment of the People's Party does not seem acceptable to us as it is formulated because the words "executing as soon as possible" are again for us empty promises. For us this is not enough, we want a commitment, a commitment with dates and a commitment with budgets. And we know that they're going to need to develop an environmental impact. We agree, of course, that this impact is being evaluated, the problem is that we do not want to allow this to be used as an excuse. That is why we think that a year is more than enough to prepare this report and to start the works without further delay. And we must remember the environmental document that was developed for the sustainable modernization of the Community's irrigation of high-level irrigation in 2012, where it was concluded — literally read —: "The negative impacts generated by the project are smaller and, in any case, perfectly predictable and correctable. This fact, coupled with water saving and the decrease in pollution that the project would entail, allows to evaluate the project environmentally as a clearly positive final balance. This showed the urgency and necessity of the project also from an environmental point of view, since maintaining the current situation poses serious risks and compromises the practice of sustainable and efficient agriculture." That was said in 2012. Five years later the situation is the same, it's unacceptable from many viewpoints, and also from an environmental point of view. And it should be pointed out that in the follow-up commission — which met in November — they said that the environmental project was advanced and that in the coming months — that was said in November, i.e. in the coming months, I suppose they will be very close to arriving — they would transfer this environmental declaration report to the Environmental Council. So that's why we can't support ourselves in this report; we believe that we can set a specific date. And, in fact, we think this is too late for the entire territory of the boundary. That's why we want to go out with deadlines, with a firm, real budget commitment, and that we really bet on the territory of the Limia because the promises, words, declarations of intentions aren't worth anything, and much less after all these years they've been listening to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u69	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Quinteiro, I am glad that you bring this proposal here because it is really for the People's Party and for the Rural Councillory that there are improvements in irrigation in the territory of Limia that are of enormous importance, both for the socio-economic development of the area and for the empowerment of the agricultural sector in this region. These water infrastructures, in fact, are a fundamental factor in professionalism and competitiveness. In short, we're talking again about the people, the Greeks and the Greeks who want and live in the country. And indeed, Mrs Quinteiro, since 2003, who carried out the first phase of the Water Plan at the Limia, in the Town Councils of Xinzo, Ambassador of Ambia and Sandias, we have been waiting for the following stages of modernization. The other four communities of irrigation, those of Corno do Monte, Alta Limia, Ganade-Lamas and Sabucedo, in the municipalities of Xinzo, Porqueira and Trasmiras, are waiting for this phase, which will not be the last, since the communities of Trasmiras, Sarreaus, Val de Ouro and Fontoiro will still be left on the threshold. We're talking, as you know, and as you can see, one of the most important agricultural and livestock districts in our country. In this exercise 2017, in order to move forward in the various necessary procedures in order to be able to start the works as soon as possible, the Council of Galicia has set out in the budget of the general direction EUR 1,559,666, which are not for the works, of course, that buy much more money, but rather, ladies, to carry out all those technical actions prior to the proper execution of the works of the water infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight that in recent times the Council has not stopped working to put in place the Plan of Regation; so at the end of 2016 the Committee on Follow-up of the Regads, chaired by the Director-General for Rural Development, which today has already met on three occasions. The purpose of this body is to be able to first and foremost control the various actions to be carried out and to be a meeting point and a way to reach agreements among all stakeholders, such as the affected municipalities of Xinzo de Limia, becauseira and Transmiras, the irrigation communities, the technical body of the General Directorate for Rural Development and Adegal, which is the Association of Farmers and Farmers of the Limia. This committee — I believe — is a guarantee in itself of the achievement of the objective. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the processing of the environmental impact declaration by the four communities is under way and the development of a new heritage project adapted to the current legislation; necessary procedures for the implementation of the modernization of the irrigation plans as a step prior to the public exposure of environmental documentation and the bidding of works, which will come later. In this same month, the transfer of the environmental assessment body to its public exhibition and the relevant collection of allegations will take place, at the same time as the preparation of the technical projects of civil work, the correction of coordinates of the Piedometers of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, under current conditions, hydrographic justification, etc. All of them are mandatory procedures that have their procedures and times. We hope that the project will be subjected to public exposure in the coming months, to, once all environmental obstacles have been overcome and the relevant authorizations of the Hydrographic Confederation can be allocated the precepts of agreements with the irrigation communities and proceed to the bidding of works. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way 2017 is the key year, no doubt, and since the Conseilaria do Medio Rural are putting all means to begin executing the works as soon as possible, perhaps in this same year the modernization of the irrigation of the Limia; works that will be auctioned as soon as the files are passed, although, of course, we cannot set a date accurately. Mrs Quinteiro, we cannot support your proposal as it is proposed because it is not possible, as I am saying, to recognize and know exactly the times that will lead to the processing of the files, the allegations and the resolutions of the allegations needed to bid and start the works. And we don't want — and I'm sure you won't either — to deceive anyone, not the thresholds, not the Greeks, nor, of course, the members of this House, voting in favour of something which is certainly unlikely or which is highly likely not to be resolved within the time limits we're talking about. It is the Council's intention, of course, to start with this invitation to tender and these works in 2017 and to propose, in this case, a replacement amendment, basically conditioned by the deadline of 2017 for the conclusion of the technical reports for the bidding and start of the works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Salgado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u71	Good morning. Today we are talking about fundamental infrastructures for the socio-economic development of a terribly punished region; it was terribly punished ten years ago and it remains today. And the constant delay in modernizing irrigation has only contributed to making this situation worse and losing some time in gold to ensure its viability. When we talk about irrigation, we also talk about a fundamental element for the productive diversification of one of the most economically resilient regions of the agricultural sector, but it has an obvious weakness, by all known to us, depending on the potato and the cereal, something that in a context like what the potato has right now, with the problem of the seam, we are even more concerned about it. Since nationalism we have always defended this issue, we have led it to all the parliaments and agencies in which we had political representation, and we insist that the planning of irrigation and its modernization and extension to more irrigation communities as a strategic bet, both to enhance that agricultural and livestock potential as well as for the development of the region as well — today we are, if I do not recall, on International Water Day — to promote an environmentally sustainable water management tool that supports social uses, agricultural uses and economic and environmental uses of water; a matter of tremendous importance also in the current context, where we are spending a year of low rain and lack of water. Not in vain, we must also remember, to the thread of this question, the many times that since Greek nationalism we have insisted on the need to rationalize the political framework for water management and to demand a Greek confederation for Mine, Sil and the Greek stretch of the Greek side of the River Limitia. This has a lot to do with this, because, when we ask for, we do not practice political abstractions, but we talk about putting alternatives on the table that would facilitate that management. Mrs. Quinteiro spoke of the fines, but we can also talk about administrative management and how an entirely crafted system of back to the social and geographic reality of our country only harms us. Focusing on the issue of irrigation, we have to make history and talk about the Bipartite, I say. Since we talked so much about this satanic Bipartite, then look where, the Bipartite had a strategic project for The Limit, and he bet on budgets and political negotiation for everything that he has to do with these regations. He was talking at the beginning of my intervention that ten years ago Limia was punished, and today I also chose that temporary banana ten years ago, because it was in 2007 -- and we're in 2017 -- when the framework agreement began 2007-2013. In fact, he drew powerful attention to the fact that in just the year 2009, the two-party government had left seven million on this issue and had made a political negotiation which had made the framework agreement already approved by Seiasa del Norte in February 2009, only pending approval by the Board of Trustees to proceed to its signature. But, oh, surprise!, the successive Councils of the Union, which were already of the People's Party, of the next government, have not executed this matter. So the leaders of the People's Party took possession in April 2009 and did nothing about this issue, despite the insistence from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, which repeatedly presented proposals, questions and suggestions to get out of this jam. So what credibility can the People's Party have for us in this House on the issue of irrigation? Well, excuse me, but none. So we rejoice that In Marea does not accept his amendment, because we think it is a mere toast to the sun, and we will vote favourably for this wording. It is frankly frustrating to review the political work of my organization in this matter and, in fact, I would like to quote the Earth Peace — to whom I deeply admire and who worked for the child in this issue — which I said in 2010, precisely in a debate on a proposal by this political group, that the welcome, if not that management that was left in 2009, would be the first of the victims of the austerity of the People's Party, and, unfortunately, we see, years later, that he was very right. The wait for environmental assessment -- if you said here -- can't be an excuse anymore. In 2010, the apology was the impact of the ZEPA area, it was the management of European funds, when the delay was attributable only to the Galician Union and, therefore, more words to condemn us for ten more years to follow this issue on stand by. So, nothing else on my part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u73	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. If we were to attend yesterday morning, so to speak, the theoretical part of the development of rural policies, agricultural policies, today we have a great opportunity, right now, with this initiative brought here to the Chamber, to practice. Yesterday we talked a lot about the positions of each group, about how the rural world was, what should be done, which were the lines to follow, and today we have a practical class or a practical element to develop these lines master and see support for the demands of the rural world. And we can do it in a very emblematic region, as is that of Limia, on an issue that unfortunately is getting more and more of a letter of nature in our country, as are the regations, and in a sector as media, important and strategic as is that of the potato. Therefore, the movement is shown to be walking, and with this initiative there is a good opportunity to enhance rural life, to demonstrate and to protect the environment. If this initiative is not approved, rural legislation begins with a bad footing on silence issues, and it has no doubt that it is a major issue in the rural world. Since the end of 2007, when the irrigation declared itself of public interest from the Central Government, the demands on the launching of the modernization of the threshold irrigation are a flag that continues to stir up as an inappropriate necessity. It must be remembered that the modernization of the irrigation project was developed by signing an agreement in January 2011, as already stated here, between the ZP Government and the Board of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Later, Together started a percentage modification process for the stream input, as could not be less, by clicking on the pocket of those same streams. Since those days, the Government of Raxoi has dropped the subject out of a lack of interest and the Government of Greece remains on the level of promise to this day. It is of no use to the continuous motions approved by several municipalities in the area or unanimously approved by the provincial parliament, all directed to the Government of the Union, and all fall into the coffin of the forgetfulness. The set-up of this regadment is essential, as we all know, for a number of circumstances and is, in addition, unapproachable. First, the irrigations are in a condition of precarious water and high consumption, throwing the water pump into the river, into the sewer, opening wells, always with the threat of sanctions, in a situation of high exposure to the sanctions of Seprona, the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, or even having to rule out the water for legal imperative, which would be dramatic for the productive sector of the area and for that region. Secondly, there is the degradation of the natural environment by the water system, subsitating in a waste of water resources that end up causing drought during the summer, and thus resulting in the most punished river in the province and even Galicia, which is not baladi and would have to be resolved. And thirdly, to improve the performance of these water systems, optimizing it, and making a sustainable use of water. For these and other causes it is essential and unaccomplishable to put in place this welcome, which will be a strong support to policies favourable to the rural environment, in the same way that the rejection of the implementation of this initiative will take a new step back in the process of abandonment of rural, in a region that sees with anguish the future for threats on the cultivation of land and the lack of irrigation, which can either enhance it or not. That is why, for these reasons and for many others, we believe that the initiative must go ahead and we, of course, the Socialist Group, will support, as we support the councils or the Provincial Deputies, these initiatives to take forward the irrigation of the Limit, which is so necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u74	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u75	Thank you. First, thank you for the support of the Socialist Group and the Galego Nationalist Block. Very good appreciation to Mr. Quiroga, who often sees itself here a lot of contradiction between the theory, among what we say, between what she said just yesterday to the advisor and what the spokesperson for the People's Party said today, and then to practice. As I did before in the first intervention, we all want this project to go ahead, but what we don't want to do is an act of faith. Let me tell you — Mrs Presas has also commented — that your words are no longer worth anything after all these years, because they were often the ones they promised and promised to carry out this project and today they are still not true. Having said this, from En Marea, of course we are prepared to reach an agreement, of course yes, but, as I said, what we want is that the plan is carried out as soon as possible. That is why we are prepared even to extend the proposed deadline. If you don't want me to put 2017, put it in mid-2018, but we want a date, and we want a date because more than a year to prepare a report seems like more than enough time. The problem, from our point of view, is not the environmental report, the problem is a lack of political will, because, as I said in my first speech and I am going to repeat, at the meeting that took place in November last year the Committee on Monitoring and Coordination of the Regadidos of the Limitia has found that in recent months it has moved forward in drafting the environmental impact statements of the four communities of regants, and that in the coming months — that was said in November — the environmental impact statement will be transferred to the Environmental Council for its public exhibition. Until mid-2018 it's not enough to do this, it really isn't. And I'm going to repeat again: in 2012 they weren't concerned about the harmful things this work didn't carry out; now this looks like an excuse, because we really don't think that's the real problem. If you're saying this since this committee, which is very advanced, make a real commitment, really. Let's not put 2017, because we put it in mid-2018, but put it on a date, because the people in the territory of the Limia can't wait any longer. So, for us, it is essential that this date be unmovable and that in the budgets of the coming year the budget game be much higher. One and a half million euros for the whole country seems like a ridiculous figure, we would say that almost insulting, when statements are talking about 27 million euros, 46 million and a half euros, and we put 1 million and a half euros. This is absolutely ridiculous. So, don't turn it around, we'd leave today with a deadline, because if we didn't, we'd think what they do is a wonderful electoral propaganda, but they'd show absolute incompetence when we hit reality at the best of these regattas. They're consistent, they don't let people drown on the threshold. If they want to bet on the countryside, they also bet on the improvement of these irrigations, because that'll be the best way to bet on the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. If they did some transaction, they'd let her come. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and four other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the public job offer for 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u77	This motion for a non-law has been tabled an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group — it is a self-amendment — and one by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u78	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u79	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Political blackmail, chaos, alarm, confusion, irresponsibility, smartness, parliamentary filibusterism, Kafkian process... the dictionary is exhausted by the qualifications that both union organizations and the students of oppositions, political parties, autonomous communities affected, are used to define the popular party's actions in relation to public employment supply of 2017. Public employment, public services, ultimately, People's Party lords, do not deserve this deal. But what is the X-ray of the situation, perhaps listening to some of the words that Mr. Feijóo, in response to our spokesman, also spoke in this matter? The X-ray is unfortunately easy to obtain, because, as we have already said in some initiatives presented in this House, both in this plenary and in commission, between July 2012 and July 2016, which is a last data published by the Ministry's own Central Staff Registry, 167,000 public jobs were lost in Spain. According to the European Commission, Spain was in 2012 among the ten countries of the European Union, as you well know, with less public employment expenditure on GDP, 43%, and from 2012 the People's Party reduced this expenditure to 38%. Twenty-five percent of the state's staff is over 50 years old. Only one staff member was incorporated between 2007 and 2015. Spain presents the highest public employment rate in the European Union, with the only exception of Poland. This is also observed by the Institute of Economic Studies. In Galicia it increased by 50%, as we have pointed out on several occasions, to temporary recruitment, from 10,000 contracts in 2011 to 15,000 contracts in 2015. From 2010 to 2015 — we will not tire of observing this issue — 1,500 R & D troops were lost in Galicia — INE data. The framework of structural posts from 2011 to 2015 lost 3,000 stable squares in the Galician Union — data from the Business Council itself. Galicia is the fifth autonomous community, against which the president of the Union commented this morning, in a reduction in public employment in the period 2010-2016, a 5% reduction, compared to the average in Spain of 3.7%. 40% of public employment corresponds to health and education personnel. Galicia is the leader in reducing the salary of public employees in the period 2013-2016 — and we have always been leaders. And according to the data from the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2016, which we have already used on one occasion, the temporality of public employment in Galicia is 24.5%; that is, one out of four public workers in Galicia is temporary; in Spain the average is 22.8% — of course, talking about temporality is not about interinternity rates — so we could conclude that 22,000 public employees in our autonomous community have a situation of temporality. But what is the chronology of all this confusion? First, they promise to recover public services alongside the 2017 budget growth forecast. At the Conference of Presidents, commitments are made to the 2017 offer and the reduction of the temporality rates. The Minister Montoro, and in cascade the Government of Greece, blackmails to link public employment offers to the approval of state budgets. Many autonomous communities, precisely because of this situation, give up tenders for 2017. The Basque Country, however, approves its offer of employment. Trade unions, opponents, affected by this whole situation, political parties and other organizations, we have indicated to the President of the Union almost at first that the public job offer in Galicia could be approved with the 2016 extended budgets for 2017. Mr. Feijóo even announces in this full double the bid for Sergas with 1,600 squares if there is agreement in Madrid with general budgets. New blackmail. However, the Education Adviser — I believe to be more concrete — at the sectoral table on 2 March, an offer of 1,043 educational squares. On that full day, however, the Fairy Counsellor points out that they are waiting for legal certainty. The Director General of the Civil Service, in Commission 1st, says it's all in time. The Government's spokesperson and minister of education moved forward last Friday with a decree that unlocks the situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, here and in Madrid, will you be more upset about this, because it's really good to get dizzy? Mr Feijóo, because this morning he mentioned these issues, they know and know that Galician budgets, already published in the Official Journal, can approve the 2017 offer in accordance with the rules of the budgetary extension, which we have reminded them on more than one occasion. Both the General Budget Law and the 2016 Extended Budgets Act itself provide for this possibility. Mr. Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, knew and knew that, in any doubt, they could turn to the recently announced bill, just as they did to cut down public services in 2012. By the way, the resources of the central government that threaten them depend on a political decision as well, it's not a bureaucratic automatism. Did they, as we said earlier, challenge the offer that was just approved by the Basque Country? That's why we demand that public job offers in 2017 eliminate the replacement rates, because we remember that replacement rates, even if they are 100%, only operate on the set of final downs of the exercise immediately before; that is, a 100% replacement rate never recovers the entire public service lost between the years 2012 and 2016. That is why it is absolutely necessary and we demand and demand in our initiative that the replacement rates be abolished. And, in parallel, it is absolutely necessary to consider a employment consolidation programme that reduces the rate of timing — which is not interim, which is only one type of recruitment — to 3% to three years. If we grow 3% of GDP in these three years, two to three years, we recover at least at the same rate the stable employment rates in public services. Of course, removing replenishment rates does not at any time take into account expenditure ceilings. We have a ceiling, we have deficit commitments. Let's leave the autonomous communities, let's let Galicia have its autonomy again to design its employment and public services policies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you don't have the majority enough in Congress, as if you just checked these days both with the Order of Summer or Yesterday with the Mordaza Law — if, by the way, we can be proud enough — stop blackmailing and seeking sincere agreements for the recovery of public services. If on March 30 they will issue a decree to unlock, as they are blocking, the 2017 job offer, they will eliminate the replacement rates. It will be absolutely easy to find the necessary parliamentary agreements. I am concerned that it is only announcing the unblocking of the replacement rates or, rather, the supply of public employment in the field of education. What does that mean? What are we going to keep blackmailing, blocking the possibility of recovering and launching job offers in other areas, such as health or justice? Because we have the impression that it will be confined to this sector. That is why we are asking, rather than asking even to demand, through this non-law proposal and all the initiatives we have already put forward before, firstly, that by the German Government they are called, without further delay, all the measures necessary to approve once the 2017 job offer, not only education. And secondly, to go to the Central Government, as we set out in our own amendment, to eliminate the replacement rates and establish a three-year public employment consolidation plan that reduces this situation and these rates to 3% of the staff in the different departments. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u80	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. We put forward this initiative, an amendment that I think is quite ambitious, quite clarifying, about which is the position of the People's Group, in which we also seek to achieve the elimination of the repositioning rates of troops to reduce the level of interactivity in the autonomous public services of the present 14%, less than 20% of the state average, to reduce it to 8%. And the Socialist Group, in a new, less novel fact, makes an amendment to the Socialist Group's proposal. I think the Socialist Party amends itself, something which, as the Socialist Party's courtyard stands at all levels, because, being novice, man!, we are not surprised, Mr. Villoslada. We offer you an ambitious goal. We also agree to fight for eliminating the replacement rates, but an ambitious goal with our amendment to reduce the rate of temporality to 8%. You're in a race, walking to yourself, for they say: even more, 3%. Mr. Villoslada, I think we must be serious, we must give certainty, we must give security, and we propose this objective through this amendment. In Galicia the rate of replacement of troops reaches the maximum limit that allows the State Budgets Act. Thus, after exceeding a replacement rate of 0% in the years 2012 to 2015, a replacement rate of up to 100% was established for 2016 in certain priority sectors and up to a maximum of 50% in the non-priority sectors, provided that the budgetary provisions of Chapter 1 were respected. The Union planned to offer three thousand stable employment markets this year to strengthen public services, including health, education and social services. The latest developments, already known to all, point to the fact that the Government is studying a formula, by law decree, so that the public job offer can be convened in three areas, including education. And from the People's Group because we value this government decision as a very good news, very good news, for education opponents, who need certainty and need legal certainty in the face of a selective process. And secondly, because Galicia is ready for when the decree is passed, and over the past few months the Council has prepared the entire process within the scope of its competence to have everything ready once it has been unlocked, as it seems to be, the situation at the national level. The Board determined the specialties and set the number of squares to be convened, a total of 1,043 in education, therefore 100 % of the replacement rates. And there are communities, such as Asturias, like Extremadura, like Castile-A Mancha, like the Valencian Community, that do not call for opposition as long as this is not clear; they are autonomous communities not governed by the People's Party; and I therefore believe that what must be done is to give opponents certainty and security so that their selective process goes ahead with all guarantees. On the other hand, stability. During the Galician crisis it was the most stable community that remained throughout its period in number of troops; the drop was 0.5%, while the average of autonomous communities was -1.2%. And in this sense, it is not true that the loss of stable jobs he cites, because we are in the same numbers of personnel practically in the Autonomic Administration as in 2008, and even we can tell him that we even have forty more public staff in health and education; and these are data not from the People's Party, but from the Ministry of Business. Social progress has also been made. In 2015 151 new squares were created, all occupied, designed to increase in the categories and centres with greater workload the possibilities of enjoying the days of personal affairs without being conditioned by service needs, and in addition there were also advances in the issue of family reconciliation and work. And you're saying there's less money for health and education than before the crisis. That's false, Mr. Villoslada. We're on a level of budgetary resources comparable to those of the years 2008 and 2009, but no traps, eh!, no traps. So we have to exclude the negative liquidations that we still have to pay: 600 million practically in 2008 and 1,500 million over 2009; which we have to pay because at the time the crisis is not recognized. Finally, Your Honor, we are going to propose this amendment. If they do not admit it, if we ask for a point of vote, to support the first point, but I think — I insist — our amendment is quite ambitious. We are to make sure, to give security, not to promise things that cannot be guaranteed, and therefore I think that objective is quite ambitious, we are going to insist on it and, therefore, we ask you to accept that amendment and we will vote in favour of your proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u82	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I was changed about the march. Well, then, Mrs. Rodil. But they didn't tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u83	Well, thank you, we've got to share the job a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u84	That's good for me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u85	The fact that you can't promise things you can't guarantee should have thought about it in December when you launched the idea of opposition, and you're still seeing that they're finally summoned. It is also true that yesterday we knew this announcement by the Government of the Spanish State that it will pass through the decree or make at least the public job offer viable. It seems that in Madrid they noticed that the social and political reaction to their blackmails didn't work all the good they thought and that Rajoy now is about trying to make friends; I think, in addition, it was the words he used in the Senate; to see how he's exploring that path of social conduct to the President of the Spanish Government. Go ahead, in any case, that the Nationalist Block Galego will support the initiative presented by the Socialist Party. They'll comment on us later if they accept the amendment from the People's Party or opt for 3% that you propose in your own amendment. What we believe is that this initiative brings or puts an important debate on the table, directly linked to the quality of public services, which is largely related to these replacement rates, which have been used, as we have already denounced on more than one occasion in this Parliament, as a resource to destroy jobs through the depreciation of vacant squares, which has led to a sharp reduction in public staff frameworks. Mr. Moreira I don't know where you come from, because the National Institute of Statistics, based precisely on the data and information declared by the Spanish Ministry of Education itself, what it collects is a loss of 500 teachers here in Galicia in recent years. I don't know if you can give us different figures that recognize official information. In the case of education, but also in the case of personnel in public health. In fact, yesterday Mr. Rueda presented a report before the Valator of the People, from that open government -- I don't know what they call it -- of the Galician Board's Transparency Portal, where most of the complaints filed by the administration's users were directly linked to the lack of staff in the public administration, and again they are own data collected by the Galician Board's own administration, and curiously again the area that collected major complaints, according to the report itself, was the Council on Education, Culture and Universitary Order. We see that they haven't been able to match their own figures well with the report that staff paintings are kept and that there has been no case in the last few years of cutting along the track of amortization of squares, which, as we say, is directly linked to those replacement rates. We understand — and as is also expressed in the non-law proposal itself — that, if we buy them the speech of economic recovery, which repeats us here on countless occasions, those replacement rates should disappear, as requested in the initiative, above all to go to allow the recovery of these squares destroyed in recent years and restore quality care in public services themselves, especially by losing or in some way reducing the burden of work that currently falls on staff — I say — increasingly diminishing. We fully agree — as the spokesman for the Socialist Party, Mr. Villoslada, said — that precisely that 100% replenishment rate is a mistake, and I don't know if we cheat ourselves in solitary, because we simply cover the vacancies because for example by retirement, but it doesn't allow the expansion of the staff frames cut off for example from 2012 with the fixing in some areas of 10% of the spare rate. The trade union centres themselves, in the negotiating tables that have been opened, for example, on health matters, also in the discussions that have been held on public job supply in education matters, one of the issues that they put on the table is the need to recover the staff paintings that have been reduced in recent years. We believe that what is collected in this non-law proposal is precisely that will also expressed — I say — by trade union organizations representing their own staff frameworks. As anecdote, in these remaining seventeen seconds, I find it very curious that when they make their own amendments, they do not lose their spirit of stressing that 14% of the rate of inter-internity that reigns in Galicia is less than 20% of the state average; simply as anecdote, because they do not cease to be yourself, nor even when they formulate their own amendments. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u87	Thank you, President. Well, 100 words from the speech of the People's Party representative and of course Mr. Feijóo, who, as usual, shows us that it is number one in twisting data. The problem is that the data all have access to them, and all of them, and then, therefore, because the En Marea Group, of course, will support this initiative of the Socialist Group. First, because we think that public administration — not just the En Marea Group, but that it is something that is extensible to society — has been one of the sectors most affected by the cuts and that it is precisely those that have the greatest impact on people's lives and well-being, and that these cuts affect not only a decrease in public services but also the quality of these services and in this case in the Government of Greece. It is very curious the data of the temporality that Mr Feijóo has shown, which has re-applyed here the People's Group Member and of course already in committee, as Mr Villoslada said, because of course, if you start talking about data and exclude it... — Has something happened?—... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u88	No, no, I didn't notice a great noise. You know that — excuse me for a moment — Mr. Romero, don't go into this, please. I'm here to tell you what to say. I know how to control time very well. Attention comes; that's not a subject I have to enter. What if I have to get in is if there's a whisper in the room. I didn't notice. In any case, it must be kept with respect to who is in the use of the word. In that I agree with everything. So go on, Mrs. Santos, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u89	Yeah, we're going to talk about that supposed temporality rate that says we have the lowest in Spain. The truth is, given that the timing of the fourth quarter of 2016 in Galicia is 24.5%, when in 2013 it was 18.5%, and it increases its temporality by 33% in three years, and the average state is 22.8%, of course, if we don't know how to distinguish -- not the president of the Union himself -- between workers, temporary, eventually, or whatever you want to be called, or whatever you want to call it, and staff interim staff, of course, supervisors are who have a calculator...! It must be that Bárcenas, Sanchis and all PP treasurers must ultimately affect even the institution, when it turns out that the data that we no longer know about and try to get out like this is an insult to our intelligence. In fact, according to data from the Ministry of Business, because they also speak of the restrictions that are given in municipalities by Montoro law, which is a minister of the People's Party — he is not minister of the opposition, he is Minister of the People's Party — from July 2009 to July 2016, the Government of Galicia loses 2,188 public employees. We're lucky that we have some public employees so responsible that the administration has continued to operate and has given a top quality service to all citizens, which is what values in these surveys people and what is saving their faces. From 2009 to 2016 the number of teachers decreased by 69.01%, 69.01% in seven years — data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. Over the next five years, they're going to retire to Galicia 3,000 teachers, because 40% of teachers are over 50 years old and it's something you can't reverse. So if you don't approve a good replacement rate and you don't make a good job offer, then we're going to get to these dates with a serious public school problem. Of course, you don't care because it's not your system; but our system, therefore, is very concerned about us. The fall of non-university staff for the years 2009-2016 was more than 1,500 teachers, also 70% of the total destruction of this job. We also see the fact that, above all because of the crisis — because of that crisis that Mr Feijóo said it was so positive — it turns out that they had to go back to classes to seek training and achieve a better future of thousands and thousands of people. Also according to the Galego Institute of Statistics, the number of enrolments increased by 198% between 2010 and 2016, from 4,802 students to 14,330 students in the last six years. They come with excuses that job offers cannot be approved by the state environment and by the state budget. And as it has already been said — but we repeated it to make it clear — it has been found that they have lied, that they are blackmailing to approve budgets and to exert political pressure on a question like these public services, which are of first necessity to all and for all. They don't listen because it's obvious they don't care because you're already going to private, so what's the problem? The problem is, from En Marea, we don't want public services for first-class citizens and second-class citizens. We don't have any problems with education or private education, because that's within the freedom of every citizen or citizen, who goes wherever they want, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u90	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u91	It's just that I got cut, but I still have a piece left, which I was calculating, so...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u92	No, no, sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u93	...was waiting for the timer, Mr. Santalices, so be fair to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u94	No, no, sorry. If anyone's on watch, it's me, and you're... that watch's coming up, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u95	Well, I was hanging, too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u96	It's 59 seconds above time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u97	...it was still pending.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u98	Well, that's it, that's it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u99	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u100	No, I'm calm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u101	So what I mean is that for us it's not that we have to strengthen the public system, for us it's the system. A responsible government that wants equal opportunities and that there are no inequalities or second-party citizens, that's what should push. But since the People's Party has an elite model, proper to its ideology, it doesn't want to support this initiative. We, of course, are going to support her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I didn't hear any insults. No, I'm sorry, first I have to give you the floor, it's the Rules of Procedure. You have to ask for the word and I have to give it to her. No, no, sorry, above all there's the regulation. You speak when I give you the word, and for that you must ask. I didn't hear any insults here. No, no, we don't always go to this. If there's an insult, tell them at that moment, and I'll see if that's true by talking to the honourable Member you're pointing me out. This happened again in that group. So, as you don't want it to happen, if anyone feels insulted, tell me at that moment and let the deputy tell you to insult him, and I'll ask that question. But I'm not worth this from being insulted. Mark whoever insults her, and we'll make this clear. No, no, tell me the name. Well, Paula Prado will ask if you insulted her. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Did you insult him? You're not insulted, you're not insulted, you're not. [[Refusal.]] No, there's no insult, because if she said something, I'd have a chance to rectify it. Let's not go what it isn't. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Díaz Villoslada, forgive this interruption and go with your non-law proposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, thank you for the support of the BNG and En Marea groups for this non-law proposal, because I believe that, if we are all able to bet on public employment together, we will all be able to recover the quality of public services. Mr. Moreira, who is being amended every day in this matter, and in others too, but in this particular, it is precisely the People's Party. Since the beginning of this year, the President of the Board, the Minister of Business, the Minister of Education, the Councillor of Education, intervention after intervention, are amended after amendment on whether or not we call the job offer, whether it will only be for education, whether it will be at a rate without charge, 100% or not 100% etc. In this sense, I think they have to have a little more rigor, and above all stop using -- we insist -- this political game or this political blackmail when public services are at stake, and in Galicia, surely, more than fifteen thousand people preparing for opposition. So, in that sense, I think we should all be more serious when talking about people's employment. We are pleased that they incorporate in their amendment the possibility of eliminating the replenishment rates. In that sense, we would be delighted to compromise if, apart from the abolition of the replacement rate, we were all able to accept that commitment — which we made at three years ago — to reduce the rate of temporality. And as Mrs. Santos well said, and I think Mrs. Rodil, we don't use certain indicators such as those that reflect the whole situation, and when we talk about the rate of interintentity, to which you are subject, we are using a much more interested or positive rate for the Government than what is really the rate of precarious public employment, which is the rate of temporality. By the way, it's a rate that publishes EPA, i.e., it's not an official fee, it's the data from the fourth quarter of 2016 yet, which are the ones that are giving us the rate of temporality in public employment. The data I was referring to on the loss of stable jobs, i.e., staff picture, are data published by the Business Council itself, not data that we take out of the sleeve of parliamentary groups, but official data published by the Business Council. By the way, this is an issue that I think we need to improve among all of us, the information that is published from public employment by sectors in Galicia, in order to be able to have that X-ray at all times. That's why we insist on these issues. I'm worried about something they said earlier, and I didn't see any answers about it. If the bill announced for the day 30 is only to unlock education, what about the rest of the public sector? What happens, above all — and what happens to us now, too, and then will be dealt with — with the health system and the positions of the administration of justice, because that is something that I think will be subject to new political games. Nothing else on my part. The transaction to the amendment tabled by the People's Party would have the content I just formulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u104	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to historical memory
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u105	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. A woman from Carril, Carmen Meaños, "The Carrilla," a phrase that always touched me: "The ones that have passed, the ones that have remained, that no one knows." Carmen Meaños, "The Carrilla", killed his father the phalanxists, the fascists of Vilagarcia, on August 15, 1936, and his mother, traumatized by that fact, ended up locked up and died in the conxo asylum. She was also a victim, as was Carmen, her brothers and her uncles and aunts. So, what this sentence of Carmen Meaños means, "The Carrilla," is that the suffering, the pain of the victims, at the end of 1936, did not end in 1939, lasted throughout frankism and still remains today. That's why we lived an anomaly, to be in a regime that is said to be democratic, in a constitutional monarchy, with an unsolved past, or in the transition, in which there was that pact of amnesty and amnesia, and not after that. An uncomfortable past, at least an uncomfortable past for some and for some who still have and exercise their ties with frankness. But, above all, it's a painful past; a painful past for the victims and their families. A past that weighs like a slate on the conscience and ethics of people who have democratic feelings and on the quality of democracy itself, because we will not tire of saying that one cannot build a democracy worthy of such a name about the forgetfulness and the silence of people who have struggled for today to have a regime that, though imperfect, is a regime of freedoms and democracy. For there were many people who were killed for it, who were persecuted for it, who were humiliated, fucking, raped, for fighting for it. So it's fair to have that tribute, that recognition, and that reparation to all those victims. What we have is an absolute absence of public policies of memory, both in Galicia and in the state in the People's Party government, therefore responsibility of the People's Party. This is not said by the BNG — which we also say — the independent report by the UN Human Rights Rapporteur Pablo de Greiff, who, in 2014, after a visit to the Spanish State in 2013, and to interview all the bodies related to this matter, made a demolition report, pointing out the absence of those public memory policies that he considers should basically focus on defending the right to truth, reparation, justice and the guarantee of non-repetition. These are the principles that inspire or must inspire public policies from memory according to the UN human rights rapporteur. So we're talking about policies that have to do with people's fundamental rights, they're not cultural policies, they're not activity policies, they're dissemination policies, they have to be a central government policy. Here in Galicia there was once a memory policy, specifically in the period 2005-2009, I don't know if they're alone. There was a government committed to historical memory and policies that were torn apart, which were then dismantled, by the Government of Mr. Feijó's People's Party, and I'll give you just two examples. The names and voices project, which the UN rapporteur himself puts as a magnificent experience that should be extended to the entire state, of research on the victims of 1936 and of the time that came after it. Or the project around San Simón Island as "Memory Island," for not talking about many other issues. And there was also progress of a law, the Law of the Historical Memory of the State, which seems to us to have been a little brave and ambitious but had some small advances, which is also being systematically disregarded and subjected to maximum abandonment by the Government of the State of the People's Party, which has also dismantled those advances. Therefore, we, regardless of whether there are other issues, such as the celebration of the Martyr Day, which will be the subject of a specific initiative, or the question of the Meirás palace, which is also being debated, and we think that it deserves a specific debate in this Parliament too, what we propose here is an integral public policy of historical memory that must be transversal, which must have the highest institutional rank, which we believe must depend on the Presidency or the Government Vice-Presidentship, which must also be established in the adoption of a Greek law of historical memory and which should allow this policy to exercise the right to truth, for example, by creating a commission of truth, which must be independent and plural, of an official nature, and which must study victims in a broad sense. Also those victims like Carmen Meaños, "The Carrilla," and all his family, who suffered for decades that pain, that silence, that forgetfulness. I don't think there's a greater pain in a person who didn't even have a chance to bring flowers to a family member to a grave because he's buried in a common pit or because he's buried in the waters of Vigo's river. There's no pain greater than that. So also the creation of an office of attention to the victims of franchise, the reactivation of the Project Names and voices and the creation of a public archive of memory, taking advantage of that entire stream of studies and data that recompiled over four years the Project names and voices, which you then suffocated and drowned until you made it disappear. We also think we need to have a specific policy on missing persons, which is hundreds of them. And not only Welsh, but also here are many people of Asturian origin and other territories of the state from which their families didn't even have the opportunity to recover their bodies. We have to get that agreement back with the Galician Institute of Legal Medicine to make that right a reality as well. Another question is all that has to do with the right to justice, and in this sense we call for the derogation of the Amnesty Law of 1977. That law of amnesia, that law of forgetfulness, because it is supposed to leave out of the law and the legal persecution of serious violations of human rights, war crimes and against humanity that are against, in addition, the international agreements signed by the Spanish State, for example, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1977, which is prior to the Amnesty Law itself and, therefore, which is above this law. And it also ends — it also seems particularly relevant to us — with the permissiveness and impunity of the apologetics and the exaltation or propaganda of the military coup and dictatorship that is being given every day in this country, and which is something absolutely intolerable that cannot be allowed. [[Applause]] We therefore think that activities must be banned. We still saw a Falanxist demonstration yesterday rebuking the former President of the Catalan Generalitat. That seems absolutely to us that... or the Franco Foundation, because we're not going to talk about all these issues anymore. Another question is the right to reparation for all victims not included in the current legislation and to urge the annulment of judgments handed down by French courts for ideological, political or belief reasons. It seems to us that they are absolutely illegal, illegitimate and cannot continue to remain as they are in history and official documentation, for the infamous victims, or, better said, for the infamous regime itself and those who defend it today. And finally, what it has to do with guarantees of non-repetition, thinking about the future as well. Because we have to learn from history, we have to know the truth, we have to know what happened, to convey those values -- we are talking not from nostalgic look to the past, but from claiming ideals and values of people who fought for social justice, for freedom, for democracy and for solidarity, for Galicia -- because they are important to build a more just and more democratic society today. So we believe that we have to work since Galician Union for the elimination of all symbols, memorial monuments and exaltation of the coup d'état. We must promote the annulment of honours, distinctions and recognitions. Four days ago, they just deleted themselves and eliminated gratitude to the dictator, who was still a perpetual mayor and honorary president of the Greek institutions. Since Galician Union we must ensure that this disappears, just like other hierarchys of the regime. And finally, you have to do the Map of Memory that commands state law itself; you have to dig out the pits; you have to do school programming to disseminate those values that have to do with human rights and the study of repression, resistance and solidarity. And we also believe that, for its symbolism, this idea of St. Simon must be recovered as a central space of democratic memory, resistance, solidarity and struggle for freedom in Galicia. What you did after the Bipartite period was to delete from all the programming—unless there is from San Simón—all that is related to historical memory—yes, Mr Pazos—and even to the tourist visits organised by the Roundup Council if you exclude any mention that happened there. Work systematically. The exhibition that was there was disappearing, "San Silón, the island of memory," and many other questions, to turn it not into the island of memory, but into the island of forgetfulness, which is where you converted the island of San Simón. So, we're talking about historical memory, we're talking about a priority ethical and political obligation that can't be postponed, that can't be postponed for other reasons that may seem more urgent or more reputable, because it has to see — as I said — issues of the present and the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u108	We're talking about recognition and homage, reparation to people who fought for democracy. We're talking about the exercise of justice with the victims and their families. And what we ask the People's Party—and I specifically tell the representatives of the People's Party—is bravery; we ask for courage; we ask them to break definitely with the past, with that uncomfortable past; they break ties; they leave the cupboard of history; they leave the cupboard of franchise, because that would really be a sample of normality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u110	...of democratic strength and also of legitimacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u112	...for democracy. We have to stop forgetting. Sara Gallardo said, an Andalusian historian, "Fascism had many ways to kill, one of them was silence." Actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u114	...silence and forgetfulness are also a way to kill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u115	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The defense of the memory of the victims of the coup d'état, of the Civil War and of the Frankish dictatorship, their recognition, their dignity, their reparation, is for socialists always an ethical and ideological commitment, because we consider... yes, that is because we believe that our democracy cannot be built in any way from the forgetfulness of the weakest, the overcome, the reprisals, the murderers. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of all those men and women who gave their lives to defend the ideas of freedom, democracy, equality. Of all those who fought against Franco and all those who survived, who were able to preserve their lives, but who have been dead for decades. Because it is these people, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about; because it is these people, lords, that we have to remember and remember. [[Applause]] And in this sense, I believe that there is no socialist, party or heart, who is not proud that he was a government presided over by a socialist—Rodriguez Zapatero—which had pushed Law 52/2007, known as the Law of Historical Memory. Before that law, things were done, but this was the first law that — against the will, by the way, of the People's Party and the right — sought to honor, perpetuate and recover the memory of those who suffered persecution. That is why I cannot agree, Mr Bará — I say with all due respect — with what you say in the explanatory statement that the development of a public policy of memory is still pending because that policy has begun. And I can't agree with what you just said, that this law simply meant some progress. It wasn't a few advances, it was important advances. I, of course, am convinced that it could be more, and now, at this point when we're going to talk about how the politics of memory ended with the People's Party, what we had to be debating is how to improve that law, which lacks that law, how that law has to go further. That's what we had to be debating, what we're going to debate, and why since the People's Party arrived both Galicia and Spain public memory policies have disappeared. And they disappeared not only from the budget, but from all the anxiety of politics. In the Law of Historical Memory, Mr Bará, as you know perfectly well, has appeared and have begun many of the resolutions in the UN rapporteur's report. I can't say all of them — we know them all — have improved the benefits that have come to the victims of the war, the new collectives have increased, the Civil War Victims' Office has been created, a map of pits has been drawn up, protocols have been put together for localization and exhumation... many elements have been completely cut off, frozen and finished with the arrival of the People's Party. In Galicia, at first, President Feijóo disarranged everything that the PSOE and BNG governments had done and stopped fulfilling their historical memory. Here the socialists present a law to elaborate procedures for exhumation and location of the pits and told us not, they did not vote in favour, so that many hundreds of Greek men and women remain in the hives. That's what you've been able to stop or do the politics of the People's Party. And this, gentlemen, is a shame for this society. Not only for the PP—that is—but for a whole society that is allowing many of our citizens to remain in the cunettes, which is where they are. [[Applause]] And, on the other hand, the truth is that we agree. You, Mr Bará, recapitulate many of the UN rapporteur's measures, and we agree with most of them. But we would like to ask — if you don't mind — a point vote, because you certainly understand perfectly that we can have a number of killings. One of the killings — I have little time — allow me, Mr President, because it is important — is with the Amnesty Law, Law 46/1977, of amnesty. Mr. Bará, I can't agree with what you said it was an amnesia law. Even the UN rapporteur — you know, who is in your report — says that he does not consider this to be a final law. Another thing is that we agree with the UN rapporteur — who we are — that we should look at the change in some of his points. But we can't agree with the derogation without more of the law for a reason, Mr Bará, because this amnesty law allowed hundreds and hundreds of socialists, communists, left party members, trade unionists, opponents to Franco's regime to leave prison, because it was we who were in those prisons, and it was that law that allowed it... and for another reason, Mr Bará... [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u118	I'm done. Just a moment, please. For another reason, Mr Bará, the Amnesty Law — which, I insist, we believe, must be analyzed at some points — that it was something very requested by the whole franchise opposition, declared that Franco's regime was illegitimate, that it was an illegal regime. This is the first time that this has been declared. And this, without more, in its entirety, cannot be repealed, Mr Bará, from our point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u120	Good morning to all and to all. The worst illness of mankind is to be unaware of it. Manuel. I'm a daughter, a granddaughter or a grandmother. I don't want to live on the island of forgetfulness and fear, in memory imposed by remorse, in moral amnesia. In the official account, the cut memory, the dismemberment. Memory crippled, without freedom. Chus. The inoculated memory that expels the victims and reprisals! I'm the one who takes the past sewn to the present. Today it rains in Santiago and in the refugee camps, my sweet good. Federico. I am the woman with the head shaved, the woman murdered for sheltering a fugitive; the worthy woman, the protective woman. I can't erase the memory of trauma! I want to remember why those I loved live with me. Yes! With the mass of terror, our history was made. Pepe. I also want to remember the official death of that unknown woman, shot in Ourense on September 28, 1936, and 85 more murdered women. I also went to get the boatman that crosses the sea. There's a grandpa in San Simón. Blue shirts wear wolves. Susana. You said, I love you red. Claudio. Those women who are only known to have existed because they were taken from existence. She went crazy. Hierarchy. In addition to the physical consequences. The pain is cold like a shot in the temple! Carlos. We need to remember the history of the persecuted, the persecuted, for political reasons. How much suffering! How many thrills and thrills! I'm scared! Repair, yes, repair the memory of the victims. It's fair! Henrique. German law of democratic historical memory. In the 36th war, the military rose up to sow terror. It wasn't a civil war. There were no cocks! Salvador. There were no two parts, falsely civil, confronted and, both, with the same responsibilities. Blood on the boots of the genocidal generals! They broke the democratic and constitutional legality of the Republic. We don't have the truth, we're looking for it. Yes! Truth, justice, reparation, no repetition. UN. Together with all the memorialists, not only the aphis, all of them. Exhumation! For love and for love. Amalia. Yes to the democratic memory policies assumed by the Government of Galician Unity. If the creation of a victim and family care office is important. There's a rush to locate clandestine burials, certain news of enforced disappearances, both in Galicia and outside. Derogation, yes, from Law 46/1977 for considering it also covers crimes against humanity. Strong commitment: the disappearance of the streets of the names of mayors and Frankish charges, from those who have given their sights good to death sentences dictated by supreme war councils. Disappearance of toys and Falanxist arrows. No engravings, give example. I wish they were doves / the ones that roll / the night / that will raise their wings at dawn! 14,978 victims of repression. The pigeons have been / flying free forever. Doves, doves, doves! 4,699 people "paddled", murdered... I do not ask them to lower me / the star of the good in the kiss, / but to ascend together / with the irreducible tide / that will lift the sea to the mountain. Processed more than 10,000. May the free flight of the pigeons of peace / raise forever the solidarity / memory of the righteous people who gave it all /pola freedom and justice! Severe prison sentences, including life imprisonment, concentration camps. Experiences not all of them were able to survive. Doves, doves, doves! Developing public policy on democratic historical memory must be the main mission of the Government, this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. "A state of mind favourable to the national reconciliation of the Spaniards is winning the political-social forces who fought in adverse fields during the Civil War. The Communist Party of Spain solemnly declares itself willing to contribute unreservedly to the national reconciliation of the Spaniards, to end with the division open by the Civil War and maintained by General Franco. Out of national reconciliation there is no more way than violence. It grows in Spain a new generation who did not live the Civil War, who does not share the hatreds and passions of those who participate in it. And we cannot, without incur tremendous responsibility to Spain and to the future, regret over this generation the consequences of facts in which it took no part." Ladies and gentlemen, I am reproducing paragraphs from the statement by the Communist Party of Spain "For national reconciliation. For a democratic and peaceful solution to the Spanish problem", in June 1956, signed by the Central Committee and broadcast by Radio España Independent from underground. That way, the leaders of that party were of the opinion 20 years after the war began and in full dictatorship. To these words, Marcelino Camacho, a political and trade union leader imprisoned for this activity for twenty years, during the Frankist regime, in his defense of the Amnesty Law, did not debate the General Courts, to say also: "How could we reconcile those who were killing each other if we did not remove that past once and for all? We want to open the way to peace and freedom. We want to close one stage, we want to open another. We, precisely the communists, who have so many wounds, who have suffered so much, have buried our dead and our grudges. We are determined to move forward on the path of freedom, on that path of peace and progress that is now open. For us, as well as repairing injustices committed during these forty years of dictatorship, amnesty is a national and democratic policy, the only consequence that can close that past of civil wars and crusades. We want to open the way to peace and freedom. We want to close one stage, we want to open another." That was, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of those who lived the coup d'état, war, dictatorship, prisons and repression. Likewise, spokesmen from the Socialist Party, the extinct UCD, the Basque-Cathal minority represented in that debate by Mr. Arzallus. I can't reproduce your words, but I'd like them to be reviewed. Those people and their real struggle against frankism, hard and difficult moments, have just been corrected by a new generation that has not lived the hardships of those years and was born in democracy. By reviewing documentation for this initiative, I have read qualifications of contempt for politicians of all colors, and significantly those on the left, who represented us in those 1977 courts, who have been able to pass this magnificent law which has so well done to this country and which has undeniably helped the recovery of democratic freedoms and peaceful coexistence among all Spaniards. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about democracy and peace. This coexistence began to break down when some tried to use this black period of our history with partisan and electoral ends, when some wanted to relate the People's Party to dictatorship and franchise to obtain political bail.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u123	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u124	In 2007, a Law of historical memory was passed which was not voted for by the Members of the People's Party for three fundamental reasons: rupture of consensus because it was unnecessary, since the various governments had passed more than twenty laws and provisions in favour of the victims, and because the attempt was made to break a political process in which the vast majority of Spaniards recognized us, the justice in the transition. Mr Zapatero himself, not in 1999, during the debate of an initiative in favour of the military of the Republic, qualified this measure: the last step, the last step, the last resquisition and to the end in the process of moral restitution of the victims of a civil war gang. But even though the People's Party did not vote for that law, it did not revoke it once it arrived in the Government, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, who have voted in favour of that law which they qualify as weakly—and so did their Members, Mrs. Fernández Davila and Mr. Rodríguez Sánchez—, now want to amend their plan and propose a law of historical Greek memory. I would like to recall at this point that the first express condemnation of franchise in Congress was made in 2002 with a Government of the People's Party. Until then, with socialist governments there had never been condemnation of frankism. Since then, various motions for resolutions, initiatives and even an institutional statement have been adopted in the Galician Parliament since last year, with the eighty years of the coup d'état, of express and manifest condemnation of the same and subsequent dictatorship, and to recover and dignify the memory of the victims. In 2011 you, Mr. BNG, presented to Congress a bill to amend the Amnesty Law which was only supported — it was rejected, of course — by the Republican Left Group of Catalonia. I don't know how many people will stay in Galicia who have lived the war and dictatorship. I don't know how many of those people will agree with what you ask in your non-law proposition. What if I could tell you is what my grandfather would think, exiled for many years in South America for being a member of Republican Left and son of a military sentenced to death for being loyal to the legally constituted Government: he would be against it. My grandfather, who survived the dictator for a few years, defended how the vast majority of Spain's amnesty law, which considered an undeniable step forward in the normalization of Spain's political and social life from the seventies of the last century and a path without return to Spain's democracy and social peace, from which we have never been left in our country until the last forty years. From the pride of coming from a family of retaliation Democrats, just like other Members and Members of my group, announce our group's negative vote on its initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Group are not fascists, we are not franchisers, just as we are not corrupt, incendiaries of mountains, and women's murderers, as much as some try to accuse us of this. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u125	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u126	I see Mr. Núñez Centeno has resorted to the communist argumentary to defend his thesis. I would rather appeal to Christian values, which seems to be on the right hand side of the People's Party: values of compassion, values of humanity, for example, for the victims, who still remain many, because the pain, wounds and scars are there and remain in time, also for the families. No one here spoke of revenge or revenge or hatred or resentment. We're talking about justice, we're talking about real justice and we're talking about repair. We are talking about these fundamental human rights issues in the report of the UN rapporteur on human rights, which is what we bring here. We didn't bring a BNG proposal. If we had made our proposal, it might have been different, but we brought exactly what the UN rapporteur proposed in his report, an agency such as the UN, of the UN Human Rights Council. As far as the transition is concerned, I'll tell you that many communist and socialist militants qualify for treason. The transition was made under the imposition—this is recognized by many historians—of tanks and bayonets, under that threat, under that fear, as it was later seen on February 23, 1981, under a state of fear. With regard to the intervention of the Socialist Group, we said that the Historical Memory Act had made some progress but that it was insufficient and that it did not resolve matters such as, for example, reparation, annulment of judgments or the Amnesty Law. The UN's report clearly states that there is legislation to which the Spanish State which prevails over the Amnesty Law has joined. That you could investigate the crimes even with those international agreements. So, what we have to say, after hearing the intervention of the People's Party, is that it seems like an infamy, which seems to us an offense to the memory of the victims and their families, which seems inhuman to us, that it seems to us a contempt for this suffering and for the pain of families, and that it seems to us also a shame for democracy, contempt for the memory and the example of thousands of people who fought, who were persecuted, who were killed, for defending democratic values and for defending Galicia. In addition, their position seems to us to be a position of disobedience to international agencies, to the report of the UN Special Rapporteur on human rights, and also to a disregard for the demands that have been made at some point in these years by the associations of Galicia's historical memory, which have claimed these policies. So we don't want to step on a land full of corpses, we don't want to walk on a land full of missing people, silent people, forgotten men and women, buried in common pits. We don't want to be complicit in the Franco-Francist genocide, the fascist terror and its disgusting shadow that still remains here today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u128	...and that remains present with attitudes like that of the People's Party, who behaves as an heir, often biological and ideological, of the dictatorship. And it's not a topic of the past, it's a topic of the present, it's a topic of the future, it's a political agreement against silence, against forgetting, to look with pride and dignity at the future, building on the values of all these people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u129	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u130	...who fought for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u131	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limitations to the rates of replacement of squares in the National Health System, the convening of an OP in 2017, as well as the establishment of a multiannual plan for recruitment in public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u132	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u133	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Today, in line with our decision by the Socialist Group to move to this plenary on employment, public employment and its precarious situation, we are bringing here, in particular, an initiative on the situation of health employment, on the precariousness of health employment, and it is a possibility that we believe it is interesting to be able to solve it. It's a proposal we consider well founded, which I'm going to try to explain. The published health barometer states that in the last five years only 3 out of 20 people claim that they have improved health care, especially in the specialized one. So 17 out of 20 don't say it's improved. Although people often appeal to the importance given to health care, that doesn't mean they give a good assessment to health management, but they consider it to be an important service. And 3 out of every 20 say it's improved, the rest don't say it. Galicia is, according to that same barometer, Spain's third community by queue in the evaluation of its health service, essentially, as citizens say, by waiting lists. Yes, it is true that Galicia is much better at assessing the treatment of health personnel. I mean, our citizenship is happy with how it treats the staff that's still left in the hospital. On the waiting lists we've already talked about here, but we're still closing schedules that cover the reality of the data. It is not yet explained why agendas are closed and appointments are not made, although we all know that it is not to be accounted for and thus limit the effect on data, although already acknowledged data claims that there are expectations for more than one year in some services, even in many of them still accounting for only one query. We therefore have an inefficient, reasonably well-valued, primary care situation, but inadequately valued in specialized care. This — according to our way of looking at it — is essentially due to a staff deficit. There is a clear staff deficit. There are fewer stable contracts in spite of what was said here today. There are fewer stable health contracts, and there's a very high degree of precariousness. The sentence of the recent European Union, which everyone knows, has already made it clear, and there are Greek cases which are supported in addition to those grounds to show that there is a very high precarious situation in the Greek health situation. This is a fact: in the governments of Nuñez Feijóo, in recent years, more than 2,500 MIR titles have been titled in Galicia — at the cost of having an MIR, which we can rate at 100,000, 120,000 or 150,000 euros per title. Of these more than 2,500 were only hired in a stable way in public health 322, adding both specialized care and primary care — 322 of more than 2,500 —. It's inefficient for the system because we have little staff and it's economically inefficient because we're training people that we're then deriving from other health systems. Although it is true that some of them also end up within the Greek health system, but through precariousness and temporality. The trade unions refused at the last negotiating table to sign or agree to any agreement with the Council until it was made easier for them — and we share that proposal — what is the actual number of contracts in Welsh public health, how many of them are interim, how many of them are statutory, how many are unstable, and how many are conjunctural. That data is fundamental to, for example, when we talk about replacement rates, when we talk about covering health care personnel, which can be done by categories, and which we can really figure out what our situation is. However, we found a serious and high opacity in the Health Council's data. Despite what was said here, there are fewer stable contracts. Despite the untrue data the president said today that there were equal numbers of contracts, which does not say that these contracts are now absolutely unstable. And despite the fact that there are more hired people here, what there are are more budgeted people, but it's not real that there are more people working in public health today. Because if we only count the number of people, they can be more; but what we can't count is we can't count four people when four people share a one-week shift, hired for hours or days. So we have to be real about the data. What we bring here is an ambitious proposal, but possible, to solve this problem, a country proposal. What we consider is that this is a sensible proposal that could solve not having this problem with health as we are having it with education, where these constant fleets of the People's Party between Galicia and Madrid, passing the ball, trying to pass it across, to see who makes the biggest blackmail, are having a lot of opponents of teaching in town. And we don't want the same thing to happen in health. We propose, first of all, that the replacement rate be abolished. It is absolutely necessary. This would solve several of the problems. And we also thought that if communities have a spending ceiling, that's the clear limit that can be marked to define the recruitment policy for the health system of autonomous communities. Because that's the limit that marks it, because a replenishment rate can be useful at a given time, it can be useful in certain budgets, but it cannot or should not be a regular tool, as it has been in recent years. So first we propose to delete the replenishment rate. Secondly, we want OPE already to be called in health care, which has been announced to 1,600 people. First, 800; then 1,600; then no, as soon as it can be, as soon as it depends... and we don't know what the next step will be. We want them to call. The announcement he admitted, that he trusted himself to "see if...", which soon became an unacceptable blackmail based on state budgets, we want him to call himself. It's possible to call her. blackmail is the tool of bad negotiators; therefore, it is necessary to summon it. If there's a problem with this that you argue about legal insecurity, it's easy: they convince Montoro that they suppress the replenishment rate, if they have so much influence in Madrid, and there's no problem. We're gonna be on it. If they convince Montoro that the replacement rate will be abolished, there will be no problem. By the way, when you quote autonomous communities, you forget to quote one that they like very much, that is Andalusia, which has already announced that the educational squares will be convened; or the Basque Country, which has already called its own. So it's possible to do it. It's not, moreover, the first or second time it's done in a similar situation, as has already happened in 1996, as it has already happened in 2012. So it's possible. Who decides is the Government, the German Government. What they can't be doing is passing on the responsibility of other parties to decide things that correspond to the government. Because they're going to do it, and that mechanism that you're going to use what you're going to prove is two things: first, that you could do, and secondly, that you've been dizzy and trying to make an unacceptable political blackmail. [[Applause]] So when they do, we don't ask them to do a penitentiary and admit they were wrong. What we ask is that they do it right and as soon as possible, because it's possible. And we also propose a third question. We believe that 1,600 square OPE doesn't meet the real needs. We therefore propose that an OPE 2018-2019-2020 be committed to 1,750 squares per year. And I know that the first thing that happens to the People's Party when we talk about summoning OPE is that that's a huge expense. We don't consider spending to be such, we consider it to be an investment. But, in addition, it is based and it is financed by itself. Approximately 900 people retire each year in public health in Galicia, about. It's a more approximate data, but quite adjusted. Of these 900 retirees, accounting for the amount of funding needed for their wages, we can cover approximately 1,000 squares — you've been pulling down — 1,000 new squares convened. So we'd have 1,000 per year that they could be cost-effectively amortized by those 900. There would be another 750. But if we hire in a stable way, we will clearly reduce the number of unstable jobs and the funding we have to give to those unstable jobs that we have in precarious public health. So we would eliminate a lot of unstable jobs, and what we would achieve would be to reduce timeliness and precariousness to the limits that we have seen pointing out some time ago, and we would be able to do it, in addition to stabilize. So that OPE is funded by itself. Its economic foundation is there. It's possible. And now we're at the end of the matter. The president today said that these were management issues and that we had to decoy the oppositions, or something like that. You're here arguing that these are management models. This is clearly an ideological model: stability or precariousness. And this is what we're deciding. He financially supports himself. It's legally possible. All we have to decide is whether we bet on precariousness or stability, and that's a model of operation. In public health — in public employment in general, but especially in public health — we defend stability. Because the instability in the staff that causes them is problems of operation, greater inability to do things, difficulties in adapting to jobs, job risks, problems of burning jobs; ultimately, less quality of care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u136	...—I've finished—which is, as I said at the outset, what is causing the assessment of Welsh health to be lowered by users, because we have a situation of public employees in an unacceptable precarious situation. So we propose a way of solving it. We hope that we can have a serious and constructive debate on the subject, and we hope that it can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u137	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u138	Very good day again. Unfortunately, we must continue to talk about the precarious situation of Sergas staff. BNG has repeatedly denounced that the Health Council conducts a staff policy that undermines public employment. It is clear that this action is paired with the implementation of the ideological model of deterioration of Galician public health. And we have also repeatedly denounced that the People's Party in the Government of the Union systematically practices the elimination of jobs in public health through an application of a replenishment rate that has been eliminated year after year by several thousand public health professionals. We have denounced a limited call for squares through public job offers, which we must add that it does not permit stable inter-internal contracts either. And this means that staff to cover the same post sign multiple contracts. Every time we have denounced this situation, the People's Party has always accused us of alarmists, of giving us some data and showing a situation that doesn't fit with reality. At the end of September, indeed, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment on the succession of temporary contracts to cover structural markets which determines that this practice violates European legislation. Affirms that the renewal of contracts or fixed-term employment relationships to cover needs that are not, in fact, provisional, but are permanent and stable, because they are not justified, to the extent that such use of fixed-term employment contracts or relationships is directly opposed to the premise that indefinite employment contracts constitute the most common form of employment relationship. I mean, it's not just that we say so by the political groups of the opposition, but that there is already a court that determines that this situation is not of receipt, that it says that the right is not adjusted and that it has to be dissolved. On this subject, the People's Party intends to look into the fact that this judgment is not applicable to it. You're shielding the wrong payer. We agree with what the Socialist Party's initiative demands here. With regard to the elimination of the replacement rate, we have also demanded on multiple occasions from the Government of Galicia, which stand in front of this situation, that they stand before the permanent interference of the Government of Madrid with regard to health planning that Galicia can do. I mean, they're working with the German Government. And, of course, we agree with the need to make calls for public job offers in sufficient quantity. We have made an amendment to this initiative to expand some of the issues it raises. And so what we demand is that the recruitment policy be changed and that it be negotiated immediately, as trade union organizations insist on persistently, an order of bonds by the principle of causality; that is to say, that people are hired for that reason because of the low. If it's a maternity leave, which hires the person for that maternity leave on a continuous basis; if it's an ILT, if it's done on that same issue, and if it ends with what the People's Party is doing to make contracts for days and that, for a few months, hires alternate days, hires for days, does not hire at the weekend. I mean, end that vile practice of precarious recruitment. We also urgently request to draw up a catalogue identifying all the structural squares. At this moment there is the obscurantism, already denounced here, of the People's Party not to know exactly what is the situation of the structural squares right now in Sergas, which are these structural squares covered by precarious contracts, for contracts for days, and even for situations of interintence. With which we demand that this catalogue be made and identify all the structural squares that are currently covered by temporary appointments and whether to cover by interim appointments, following the priority set out in the lists, i.e....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u139	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u140	...—ending, Mr President—to turn these squares into structural and to be covered by the order of priority in which people are on the recruitment lists. It's fair that it is. And we also demand that, once these squares have been identified, an OPE should be carried out for the whole of the structural squares, for those more than 2,000 squares that have been eliminated in recent years by the People's Party, which will immediately proceed to its coverage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u142	Thank you, President. Here's a new occasion when it comes to discussing precariousness in the Galician Health Service, a precariousness which has been visible throughout all these years to the whole world except precisely for the Government. It has been visible to users, because obviously the staff is changing their service, there is a lack of sufficient staff and therefore have the waiting lists. It has been visible to trade union stations, which, regardless of their position at one point or another, have all been reporting this situation for the last few years. But it was also visible, and above all, for any workers and workers, who suffer in their flesh precisely this precariousness, contempt, uncertainty and the impossibility of making a normal life. He may seem overstated, but he's not. There's uncertainty when you don't even know how you're going to work and when you don't last that situation one year, two years, five years, but if you stay in a situation it's still precarious for ten years, fifteen years; in a situation that is, I think, real contempt for health professionals who are on those recruitment lists. These are contracts that are made without forecast in more than usual ways and with people who aren't even those pool lists, those lists for urgent cases. It's common contracts per hour, garbage jobs, and it's probably more common than it's ever been. I mean, to our understanding, there was no more precariousness than there is now. There are staff who are discharged on working days and who are discharged precisely on rest days, failing to meet minimum labour rights, the application of the most slave business practices in the Public Service. Timeliness is also a serious factor, which affects not only the working people but, as we have already said, the very quality of the health service. People are moving from one service to another, they're moving from one service to another, and therefore there's no stability. There are places that are not offered and which, as has already been said, are structurally covered in a precarious way. The concatenation of contracts, the result of the judgment referred to also in the initiative, also happens in the Galician Health Service and ultimately leaves a situation of uncertainty to the staff, they impose the rights of those personnel who are concaterating contracts, while adding it to the precariousness that they generate around people who should access these squares in a public job offer. So those who pay are always the workers and the workers, no matter how they concaten the contracts or what they would have to access these squares in a public job offer. In the end, the mismanagement of the People's Party's Government's staff, we pay all of them, they pay those workers and workers, they pay the people who attend or come to the health services — which we also suffer from this precaution — and we also pay them when we pay those compensations and the trials, which cost us many thousands of euros to the Greeks and to the Greeks for all the judgments that we lose for mismanagement of the Health Council. It also suffers, of course, users on waiting lists, which are also the result of those replacement rates. Because, of course, as we have said on other occasions, with nearly 1,800 professionals less in public health it is impossible to offer the same service. We continue, by the way, waiting for the Government to be worthy of answering the requests for information in the future of article 9 on non-structural waiting lists. Parliament's Rules of Procedure require the right of the honourable Members to receive information, and this does not happen at all. How will the same service be given to 1,800 professionals less? And in the meantime, the private one gets his accounts fattened. There's recovery, but only for some and some, only for friends of the People's Party. By the way, this honourable Member is also in addition to that complaint or the lack of support from the Vigo Sea to which the prize of Vigés Distinguished to the owner of Povervisa is given. We defend public health. And we also remember that these waiting lists actually fatten those accounts from these large companies, those health companies. And that has to do with the absence of sufficient public personnel. The Socialist Party's proposal is going to support it. It's a possible solution. We have brought others, proposed and defended others in this House. Although we believe, of course, that elimination of precariousness must be done for all jobs in general, globally. And we understand, in addition, that in this situation this blackmail, which is referred to, is not acceptable in fact related to State budgets. We defend from the beginning the elimination of that replenishment rate, just as we defend from the beginning that austerity could not be above the citizen's right to health. So, of course, at this point we have suffered the consequences of the application of Article 135 of the Constitution and, of course, of the budgetary restrictions which came together. So, with budget or no budget, the Board must take responsibility for fulfilling the right of workers and workers to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u144	... yes, I'm done with rights in your work and the right of the Welsh people to access a hundred percent public and quality health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. On behalf of the People's Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u146	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, you again present a non-legislation proposal that, in the first two points, seems to copy the repeated statements of the president and the health adviser. The demands of the German Government for the elimination of the replacement rate are publicly recognized. And it was also announced by the Government that an OPE for the year 2017 that covers the 100 percent of the squares that were left vacant in 2016; that is, a total of 820 squares in the different categories, that could double to about 1,600 in the case of the disappearance of the replacement rate. And you speak of blackmail on this matter in relation to the approval by the Government, and of course of Parliament, of the general budgets of the State. I really don't know what blackmail is. If there are no budgets, you have to extend the current budgets, and it seems difficult to pay up the economic amounts corresponding to new markets without budget allocation, although you did here an OPE account at zero price that I'd like you to explain to me well, because frankly it's curious. If there are no budgets, transfer to autonomous communities would be the same as last year. On the other hand, the replenishment rate is basic legislation and therefore thanks to compliance. At this moment I wanted to remember that the replenishment rate, although not quoted here, is not an invention of the People's Party. I think no one will forget Royal Decree 248/2009 of 27 February, which placed the said rate at a maximum of 30%, or the immediate action plan of 2010, with a figure of 10 per cent for that year, which remained in 2011 with a government that was not the People's Party. Not to mention the Royal Decree Law 8/2010, of extraordinary measures for the reduction of the public deficit, which subjected a permanent loss, forever, of at least 5% of the wages for all public employees of the different administrations. You, Mr. Torrado, have been a party of government for many years in Spain — in Galicia too, though less — and I suppose you will be with the People's Party in compliance with the laws. It also refers to the judgment of the European Union Court of Justice in connection with an employee of public health in Madrid for the concatenation of temporary contracts. With regard to this issue, there is a firm commitment from the Council — which this group applauds — to offer 438 inter-internity squares immediately to the first of April. And in the short and medium term, a similar number could be offered to increase that stabilization. These measures were announced by the Council at a meeting held with representative unions, together with the establishment of a negotiating calendar for other matters of particular interest. At that meeting last 17 the stability plan continued to be negotiated, and the Health Administration will send a new draft to the union centres. All these measures will lead to a steady increase in staff, while reducing by 3 points the percentage of eventuality, which will range from 8% to 5%. Anyway, Sergas is one of the state's health services with a higher figure of stable bonds, which is around 80%. We must also understand that a health system works 24 hours a day the 365 days of the year, with replacements for casualties, holidays and days of free will, which implies the inescapable need for temporary contracts to cover all these eventualities. In short, Mr. Torrado, the Council is working on improving the working conditions of Sergas staff, and the majority group supports this negotiation. Negotiation has to adjust to the economic reality of the moment, which, better than in the past few years, is still far from the figures that were handled in years prior to the crisis. At this point, you have announced a public job offer of 820 squares, which can be extended twice if the replenishment rate has been changed and, although you do not like it, if Congress is able to approve the general government budget. There are advanced negotiations with the unions to carry out a stability plan, with an immediate expectation of converting 438 temporary squares into stable contracts. And for all this, if you accept it, we will ask for a point vote. We have no doubt in affirmative voting the first and second points of its initiative — although I accept the amendment of the BNG, which I believe Mrs. Prado has not spoken of it and which cuts a part of the paragraph — basically because this is already being done and has already been claimed by the Government of Spain: the elimination of the restorative rate imposed since 2009 and which is currently 100 percent for this year. And, of course, as you say at the second point, when that fee is eliminated, and with the budget of the approved State, there is a commitment by the government of the convening board of an OPE with the figure of 1,600 squares, already announced by the president and counsellor. But we can't accept the third point. To talk today about what will happen in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 and to give figures of future OPE calls without budget support seem irresponsible in current political circumstances, although, indeed, if you are able to explain to me that theory of the zero cost of the OPE of 1,750 people, I would thank you for explaining it to me. The People's Parliamentary Group supports a responsible government that cannot sell smoke, and we hope that they will accept a point vote. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor on the part of the parliamentary group responsible for the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I want to thank you for the support of some groups, even though some are in some parts. If I'm allowed to explain point 3, I'm equal to the convention and vote in favour, right? Okay, so, since they support... I'll welcome them back. I did it yesterday with Pontevedra. I welcome them again to accept our proposal. It's funny enough; if they're so convinced of it, they could have brought here a proposal to eliminate the replacement rates and to call OPE, they could have brought it here. Do we have to bring her in so they can approve? Don't worry, we're here to collaborate with the country, so let's bring it in and welcome them to finally stop getting dizzy on the subject. They defend both temporality and instability that even their arguments are quite unstable, quite temporary and quite precarious. So I'm very grateful to you that you finally bet on a sensible OPE. In any case, the question of the third point is easy. 900 people are seated in the health system in Galicia. That covers about 1,000 of the new entrants. And we believe that there are many more than 750 unstable people, precariously, in Galicia, but that, if we incorporate an OPE of stability, to have stable squares, we are going to suppress squares of people who are doing the same work temporarily, which is not really a structural work, as the European Union says. So all we do is that the same thing that we spend on time, we spend it on stability. If it's a model question: stability or precariousness. We bet on: the same thing spent on stability. That's why that's the third question, which is not so complex. In any case, you haven't quoted me now in the Basque Country, which shows that it's possible to convene. Don't quote me Andalucía, who will call. Feijóo said a couple of months ago in this Parliament: "In the Galician Parliament you speak of Galicia." All right, but you're talking only about some communities. I'm talking about Galicia, and then in Galicia we think it's possible, it's clearly possible. In fact, as I said before, there are background. On legal insecurity, if we agree, then tell Montoro to suppress the replenishment rate, not keep this uncertainty; not only do we do here or approve a resolution, but ask him for it — I would like to see the statements clearly in that sense — and you therefore defend the situation of employment in stability. On the amendments, I believe that BNG's first has no problem accepting it, we think it's basically implicit, but without any problem. The second would be quite interesting, but by being suppressed our third point, which we intend to maintain, so we cannot accept it. In any case, yes, yes, it was blackmail. I am grateful to you for removing blackmail, because, as I say, they are tools of bad negotiator, because on the basis of a supposed loyalty to the country you were asking for here, Mr. Feijóo asked for loyalty to the country to approve the budgets. And we are loyal to dogs, we are loyal to the country. That's why we bring this proposal, what a bad thing it shouldn't be when you're desperate to approve it with us! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And of course we accept the vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and 13 other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the negotiation with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces of clear criteria of priority in investments in hydraulic works, as well as the establishment of a reference tariff structure for water management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u150	We move on to the next initiative, of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Trenor López. This initiative was amended by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez, and by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u151	Mr. Trenor López has the floor to make the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, today is not the Day of Poetry, which was yesterday, but there is also poetry in the water, there is poetry, but there are also other things like health, like economics, like development, leisure and many other things. In 1993, the United Nations General Assembly designated 22 March as the first Water Day, and from that year every 22 March the World Water Day is celebrated. It is a day to highlight the essential function of water and to provide improvements for the world population suffering from water-related problems, it is a day to debate how we should manage water resources in the future and it is a day to promote public awareness about the conservation and development of water resources. Every year World Water Day focuses on one aspect. Last year was employment, formerly sustainable development, energy, cooperation. And this year we look at the problem of waste water, whose lack of treatment causes a million people to die each year. Obviously, reality in our country is different, but it's not wrong to look at what we have around us to defend what we've been able to achieve as a society. I believe that all groups in this House, or at least most, the vast majority of Members of this House, want the economic, technical and institutional sustainability of the water cycle in our community. But to achieve it it is essential to achieve collaboration and joint work among the different administrations that have competence. This wish is based on the fact that with the beginning of this new legislation the Galician Union and the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces showed their willingness to move forward in the development of collaboration and joint work between the various local and autonomous administrations. Our group believes that it is essential that this commitment between administrations we can incorporate a political agreement that strengthens and supports and encourages negotiation between these two administrations, to give priority and attention to water management policy. Therefore, this non-law proposal seeks to give priority to the negotiation of the Galician Union with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, with the aim of agreeing as soon as possible clear, objective criteria, of priority in investments in hydraulic works and the establishment of a reference tariff structure. Since the Greek institutions we have been working in recent years to achieve this goal in two fundamental lines of action; two lines differentiated but strictly linked and interrelated and that need one another in order to achieve maximum effectiveness in achieving the objectives that I was previously commenting on. On the one hand, in the formulation of an integral water management standard. And in terms of autonomous competences over these years, an important task of water regulation has been carried out, to adapt it in a way that responds to the problems and interests of our community. And, on the other hand, with the promotion and impulse of a local water package, to move forward in those aspects that may most affect local autonomy, since we cannot forget that municipalities have exclusive competence in the supply and sanitation of their municipal systems. I've talked about two axes: regulation and cooperation, but it's also important that we highlight the investment effort, because this group of which I'm part supports the Government which has made the greatest environmental investment in the history of our autonomy in sanitation, purification and also in water supply. Since 2009 there have been 1,100 million investments, more than 300 sanitation actions in one hundred sixty-nine municipalities and thirty-nine debuggers made by this Government, which allows us to be about 80% of the water in good state in our community. And, of course, this isn't enough, our goal is to keep working to get 100 percent, but we have confidence that we're on the right track. With regard to the new legislation, it should be noted that in 2010 the Galician Parliament approved the Galician Water Law. This law had very specific fundamental objectives, such as the management of the competences of our community and of local actors in the area of water and hydraulic works, the management of the integral cycle of water for urban use and the establishment of foundations for efficient management of supply, sanitation and purification services, as well as the establishment of an economic water regime in Galicia. It also regulated other aspects, such as the organization and operation of the Galician Hydraulic Administration, the practice bases of hydrological planning and the regime of infringements and sanctions. As I said, this law regulates the division of competence between the autonomous and local administration, establishing a regulatory framework, respecting the basic legislation on local regimes and the principle of local autonomy, which regulates the important role that the autonomous administration has played in this area for decades. The law subsequently adopted different regulations, such as the provision of service and sanitation and sewage clearance, the economic and financial regime of the water canon and the vegetable coefficient, the collaboration of the Galician Hydraulic Administration in the execution and operation of the water infrastructures in the field of local entities, the Hydrological Planning Regulation and also the Statute of the Galician Water Authority. But if the various regulations I mentioned to them are fincapé or have made fincapé in collaboration and coordination between the Union and the municipalities, they were in particular the Decree of the Framework Regulation of the Public Sanitation and Depuration of Waste Waters and the implementation and exploitation of hydraulic infrastructures which reflected more intensive collaboration and coordination between the administrations. But to advance towards the goal of making possible greater homogeneity in the treatment and management of this service and to ensure greater quality and full compliance with the European Water Framework Directive does not come only from normative development, it is necessary but not enough, so in order to achieve these objectives the Council of Galicia has made a proposal for the formulation of a local water pact. Proposal that has been transferred to the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and accepted, beginning with important institutional cooperation between the autonomous and local administrations, which we believe will also enable important progress to be made. On November 4, 2013, the Protocol for the Development of the Local Framework for the Management of Galician Urban Cycle between Galician Union and Fegamp was signed. It is a political agreement through which we intend to establish common application bases that make possible greater homogeneity in the treatment and management of services of the integral water cycle in Galicia. A pact that allows you to promote collaboration between administrations and achieve a common framework in management. This protocol seeks through joint work to advance to the improvement and transparency of information, to ensure that administrations and populations are informed of the rules of application, existing obligations and their necessary compliance, as well as of the work being done. It also aims to advance towards consensus; to achieve shared agreements, agreements with maximum consensus by all administrations and also by stakeholders, and to implement them and implement them by all administrations. To set default criteria and targets, of sustainable management, for the provision of services and, ultimately, to achieve a common path for all. Moving forward also towards commitment and implementation, requiring commitment to implement all existing agreements and planning regulations. The documents that make up the pact should be conceived as a tool that allows the municipalities to have a sustainable, economic and environmental management tool for the water cycle. It is also intended to advance towards homogeneity, end the disparities between management models that cause great differences in citizenship, great differences in the provision of this service to citizenship. We also want to move forward in speed and effectiveness, simplifying administration, making all the documentation that needs to be made clearer. Advance towards sustainability as well. Income from the provision of water services by different agents, the different rates, rates, charges, charges or coefficients that are established must be used to recover costs, also to cope with the maintenance and maintenance of infrastructures and to ensure the financial balance of the provision. Prices must be an instrument to protect the quality of water and an incentive to also improve the efficiency of its use. We also want to move forward towards co-responsibility and legal certainty. The pact also seeks greater clarity in the powers and powers of the different administrations involved in management, in order to assume each one's responsibilities and encourage a more responsible provision of services, to bet on the exercise of different competences and also to bet on the collaboration and active assistance between them. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, remember that the provision of quality services must be guaranteed to the citizen by ensuring that he is aware that the service he is providing is correlated with the effort required in the recovery of costs, and that he may also, of course, then impose responsibilities on those who have them. We need to push together work and collaboration between administrations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u154	And that is what we want to support and push with this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u156	Thank you, President. Good morning. Well, the first thing we have to say is that we are very surprised at the urgency of this non-law proposal, not just because you've been ruling this legislation more than eight years, but you are asking the Galician Parliament to stand as soon as possible on this issue. But if you are the ones who decided, and so they told us in Commission 1a a few days ago, that they have decided not to comply with the Transparency Act for 2016 and not to give Parliament information on the degree of compliance with Parliament's agreements, little will matter to the Government that we stand in this Parliament on a parliamentary agreement or a decision. Does this initiative not have anything to do with meeting the Commission on water and with President Feijóo presiding over it in a few days? Maybe that's the emergency. But, of course, that urgency justification wouldn't be admitted by the House's lawyers, and that's exactly why you had to invent a different emergency for this non-law proposition today. On the other hand, the current Water Law is of the year 2010, and the development decree of 2012, as well as the spokesperson of the People's Party. They significantly increased the price of water in Galicia, in the Greek homes, at a time of crisis and economic recession. That's good not to say, but that's what happened. And let us remember that the former Environmental Adviser already said in this House that they were drawing up the decree of collaboration with local authorities, that it would enable us to collaborate with the municipalities in the execution of hydraulic works and to control and establish requirements to properly exploit the debuggers. Home!, the protocol for collaboration and development is 2013, the institutional follow-up commission, which we know, has not done much work, the local water pact has not been meeting for six months, because, of course, the excuse is that there are two consultants who have to pay half-way between the government and the deputies, but you haven't talked to the deputies yet. A lot of haste, a lot of urgency, we don't see him. And from here the Socialist Parliamentary Group demands the work of the Greek councils. This initiative would be good if it was not extemporaneous: the 2010 Act, the 2012 Regulation, the 2013 Protocol — we are in 2017 —. But we still think it's a shame that the People's Party would bring her to the debate today, although we believe that her drafting should improve and that our understanding of a leg is missing. First of all, in improving writing, and with regard to point 1, you ask for clear criteria of priority for investments in hydraulic works. Light the water, but with "clear criteria" you don't know very well what you mean. And that is why we propose that you replace yourself with: "The determination, by consensus with the Fegamp, of objective criteria of priority in the conduct of investments in hydraulic works by Galician Waters"—it is good that at an initiative of these characteristics Galician Waters is mentioned in the request made to the Government, mainly because it is the one with competences— "and objective criteria for co-financing these investments". It is necessary to know what the action field of Galician Waters will be so that you don't do the works in the municipalities that come to you in vain but made with the Fegamp. And there is also a need for co-financing criteria — for example, for picking up works — outside emergencies, which will necessarily have to be done. So first, the Galician Waters field of action and then the criteria of action in the municipalities, and always objectively, never discretionary, nor, of course, never arbitrary. Secondly, for us the duck that is missing is a third point that includes: "The establishment of a standard of water quality", because it has been spoken in negotiations with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. In short, we propose that the first point be changed and that a third point be included in this non-law proposal, which, in fact, would be urgent almost nine years ago, we do not see the urgency today and we do not see that you have made too much progress in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u158	Good morning. We see some absences in speech and initiative. To talk about water management, sustainability, and not to talk about the model of water management privatization and water sanitation, I think it's to escape from reality. To talk about water management and not to talk about corruption in private water management in this Pokémon country is to be out of reality, Mr. Trenor. That corruption that you know so well, the Pokémon operation; the ability that Aquagest also had, in addition to Vendex, to make "gift gifts", to plug in sons of mayors we all know. [[Applause]] That's because there was a deliberate political option to help us introduce the business into water management. Because the privatization of water management is not about efficiency, gentlemen of the People's Party, it's business. And, of course, with that business of basic good for people there's money for everything, there's money for gifts, there's money for plugging people, there's money for plugging some mayor's kids, even though they're incapacitated. And to talk about this initiative without talking about it is to escape to reality. Well, you speak in your initiative of a coordination between administrations, yes. Why don't you talk about the effects of these policies over the thirty years that you have ruled in this country?, what is the situation of the rivers?, what is the situation of the waters? They take stock of whether their policies served to put Galicia in a good position. Not at all. The privatization model for which you bet causes several effects: first, inefficiencies. It is not worth talking about sanitation — as Mr Trenor has done — about the millions that have invested, but about how the infrastructures that have been built with these millions work. Because it could be 1,100 million, Mr. Gonzalo Trenor, but what is the situation with these infrastructures? Mr. Florentino Pérez in Ferrol's debugger, for example. Questions like building with public money, 38 million euros, a debugger to then have sixteen of the twenty-four hours of the day as a single staff security guard and charge very expensive sanitation and supply fees, isn't that the effect of privatization policies? And this happens in addition because by privatizing contracts of at least twenty years the consequence is that most municipalities are left without information and without the ability to decide what works to do and how to do the works. Who finally ends up doing water supply and sanitation infrastructure policy is their own companies, who choose the options that most business will give them, both in construction and maintenance; they choose the most expensive systems both in construction and maintenance. That's what happens when a county has been managing privatized water for 20 years. And for us it's the point of the matter. If you look at the map of which municipalities privatize the water supply and sanitation service in Galicia you'll see that they're concentrated on the Atlantic axis, in the most prosperous populations in the country, and from there they extend to adjacent municipalities. Why? Because companies only go where there's profitability. And we want a water policy for the whole country. That's why in our amendment we propose that Galician Waters must be that instrument of support for all municipalities, those who have outsourced the service and those who do not, so that municipalities have sufficient knowledge, at least, to control that companies are not defrauding citizens. That at this moment most of the municipalities have neither that capacity—they have no technicians nor even expertise, nor knowledge—to know whether a work is necessary, whether a technology is necessary or not, or whether it's depurating or not; it's the company that does politics. And that can't happen because, in the end, what happens is that it's polluting and it's charging people the same way. And, on the other hand, we in our amendment, Mr Trenor, — a non-minor issue — demand from the Government of the State the derogation from Law 27/2013 of 27 December, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, which is precisely an impediment for the municipalities to resume the public management of services. Yes, sir, in the morning! In the years that we knew all the corruption around these services, when we knew that it was much more towards the private management of these companies than direct management, you passed this law to prevent the municipalities from recovering the public management of resources. So we think we need to change the model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u160	...to leave the water business model, leave the water merchant model and make a public policy with essential good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u161	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u162	The People's Party brings us here a proposal for a political agreement through urgency to urge the Galician Union to give priority to negotiations with the Fegamp, with the aim of agreeing next year, in 2018 — we see why it cannot be this year 2017 — the determination of clear criteria of priority in investments in hydraulic works and the establishment of a reference tariff structure. And we've already announced that we're not going to support this proposal because what you want is in some way to swallow, legitimize and whitewash an unclear, intransparent policy by the Council of the Environment and Waters of Galicia. Because you've been talking here about investments of more than 1,100 million euros, and just as the laughs are, as the country is in this matter, because the truth is that they reveal quite ineffective in their management. We are not going to support this initiative because we have already expressed the disagreement with the Water Law of 2010, also with regard to the water canon and, above all, because it is the most recent we have already reported here, with the investment policy of the Conseilaria e de Waters de Galicia with regard to, for example, the year 2016 — but we could refer to other years ago — which is absolutely partisan and sectarian. We have already denounced here that by applying the Transparency Law, curiously, you have made public that in two and a half months in 2016 — from June 13 to August 31 — curiously on the eve of an electoral process, they approved sixty-six conventions from the waters of Galicia, of which fifty-seven were signed with councils governed by the People's Party. 90% of the resources for the People's Party; i.e., obscurantism, arbitrariness and fate of European funds and also of resources that are the product of the collection of the water canon, which is, by the way, collected by the municipalities, by the local administrations. And in this sense, too, Fegamp has already made a request for that water canon management to be made by the Galician Board itself and investments are destined for the municipalities. In fact, you signed in 2013 a local water protocol for the development of the local water pact. It is true that at this time — more than three years have passed — there are few results. There's a technical commission, an institutional commission, studies, reports, but there's no realization. And we don't see why, either, after more than eight years of ruling, we have to wait for 2018 to take initiatives in this regard. Of course, we do advocate that there are criteria and priorities for investment in water supply, sanitation and also purification. We think investment needs to be prioritized in the rivers, which is still much to be done, because there are really very alarming situations in the state of the rivers, and also balancing investments at the territorial level, taking into account the needs of the small municipalities of the interior. And, above all, the most important thing is to put an end to these partisan, scurantist and customer practices, which is the norm in the operation of Galician Waters and the Environmental Council. And we could set a lot of examples, but I'm going to quote just two. We've already talked to you about the project presented to you by the Town Hall of St. Sadurniño and the Town Hall of Narón. You talk a lot about inter-municipal cooperation, but after asking them to do a project and another project, they left them out of their investments. Or the case also of the Pontevedra Town Hall, which had signed an agreement for the sanitation of the Gafos River and was thrown into the trash and grossly breached. So we're not going to support this initiative, we're not going to endorse the policy that's being done by the Galician Waters and the Environmental Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u163	Thank you, Mr Bará. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u164	Mrs Vilan, we are going to accept your first point, the first point in the amendment by the Socialist Party of Galicia, since changing from "clear criteria" to "target criteria of co-financing" is at the heart of the initiative we are presenting. That is what we want to say: to be clear not only our criteria, which we already have, but also to have clear the criteria that affect all, those that affect the municipalities and those that affect the Members of Parliament. With regard to the second point, we believe that the water quality standards are perfectly regulated through the Water Framework Directive and the other specific directives, and that they are already established in the regulations as they would be redundant. As for Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Sánchez, how easy it is to come here and talk, express ideas and not offend. We understand that when one wants to offend the rest of the Members of this House, well, it is because the arguments you have are very weak. It is true that if every time you go to a forum you offend because then they end up finishing their forums: dividing up, fighting and looking for more trifles than necessary. [[Applause]] Look, the law you refer to does not prevent direct management, does not prevent direct management. I mean, if they don't, they're because you're incapable of managing, they're incapable of running their election programs. And if they're incapacitated, they might be because they're not competent or because when they did their election program they were lying. They're not able to manage; they're not able to run the city budget; they're not able to get the licenses they're applying for; 46% have reduced the licensing in my city; they don't manage the staff; they're unable to manage even the city council staff; and they're not able to remunipalize, which is what you took in your program. They talked about libraries, they still don't; they talked about gardens, they still didn't; they talked about the crane, they still didn't. And I'm talking about my city, and they blame us. Well, I think you're the ones who lied because they knew they weren't going to do it, and yet they preferred to take it to their show. They did, it's true, they did it in Teo. And what is Teo's experience? They're not able to do that properly, they have to hire these companies, which you call corrupts, to help them, and the neighbors have to make two payments: on the one hand, management, their negligent management, and on the other hand, they have to pay these companies to do what you're not able to do. Look, ladies and gentlemen, you keep kicking, pushing, insulting; we'll keep worrying about our country. The signing of the Protocol for the Development of the Local Compact for the Management of the Water Cycle...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u165	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u166	...marked the start of collaboration between the administrations and a coordinated work carried out with the ambitious objective of establishing the foundations for sustainable, economic and environmental management of the water cycle; also being able to establish objective criteria, previously established, and those for which an overall commitment of application is made to achieve the quality in providing these basic and fundamental services for all citizens. With this initiative we want to support the work of the Galician Union, continuing with the commitment and effort it is making, encouraging collaboration and the realization of permanent work that will enable among all, including the work of the Fegamp and of the provincial deputies, to lay down these common implementation bases for the efficient and efficient management of the urban water cycle service. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u167	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u168	At the end of the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceeded to the vote. We started by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. The PSOE has called for a point vote and it seems that it is accepted. So there are two points. First, let us vote on the first point. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the development of its consumer competences in relation to the control of financial products issued by banking institutions for customers and their marketing processes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected. We now vote on the second point of this non-law proposal. We vote. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the development of its consumer competences in relation to the control of financial products issued by banking institutions for customers and their marketing processes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u169	Consequently, this non-law proposal is rejected. We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to ensure compliance with the European objectives of covering new-generation telecommunications networks and increasing the efficiency of public funds, as well as allowing access to a speed of 30 megabits per second, at least 90 per cent of the inhabitants of populations of less than five thousand inhabitants in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u170	Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira. The amendments are accepted, but how to add them. We therefore vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and three other Members, on the establishment by the Government of the Italian Government of the public service of harbour dredging and other areas of the public domain maritime-terrestrial in the autonomous community of Galicia, as well as the acquisition of a drena vessel for this purpose. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u171	We are voting following that of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, on the execution by the Galician Union in 2017 of the works of the Plan of the irrigation of the region of Limia. There's a transaction that made me come in and I read with your permission: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to initiate the bidding of the works of the irrigation modernization plan of the boundary region before June 2018." This is the text we are going to vote on. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the execution by the Galician Union in 2017 of the works of the Plan de regádio da Comarca da Limia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u172	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. There is a transaction that has already been explained by the Member of the Socialist Group, but if you want to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u173	In principle, there was a request for a point-by-point vote, and in that regard we would offer that transaction. But it seems that the People's Group does not accept those points and would therefore not vote for them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u174	So, shall we vote how it is?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u176	We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and four other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made by the Central Government in relation to the public job offer for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u177	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the German Government in relation to historical memory. The Socialist Group was asked to vote by points, which was accepted, and in particular to vote separately on point 3bis(a) and point 4(c) The PNL has six points and we voted in particular on these two points with letters, which are those which the Socialist Group requests separately: point 3bis(a) and point 4(c) We voted on. [[Murmurs.]] Voting of points 3a(a) and 4.c) of the G.P.'s non-law proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to historical memory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these two points of this non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u178	We now vote on the rest of the points. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, except the points already voted on, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to historical memory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points are rejected and the proposal is not law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u179	Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Socialists, on demands to the central government regarding restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limitations on the rates of replacement of squares in the national health system, the convening of an OPE in 2017. The vote was called for by a point of order, which was accepted. In particular, there are three points. Let's get started. First, let us vote on the first point. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limitations to the rates of replacement of squares in the National Health System, the convening of an OP in 2017, as well as the establishment of a multiannual plan for recruitment in public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u180	We vote for the second point. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limitations to the rates of replacement of squares in the National Health System, the convening of an OP in 2017, as well as the establishment of a multiannual plan for recruitment in public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. Point 2 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u181	We voted on the third point of this non-law proposal. Voting of point 3 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limitations to the rates of replacement of squares in the National Health System, the convening of an OP in 2017, as well as the establishment of a multiannual plan for recruitment in public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u182	Finally, we voted for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Trenor López. The first point of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted in place of the first of the People's Parliamentary Group. That's the proposal, that's it. We therefore vote on this proposal. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and 13 other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the negotiation with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces of clear criteria of priority in investments in hydraulic works, as well as the establishment of a reference tariff structure for water management The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes against, 14; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u183	We are now debating the fourth item on the agenda, appeals. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the economic and social situation of young people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u184	Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u185	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good day to you too, Counselor. Today we would like to ask you about one of the groups who, from our point of view, has suffered more than just the guests of this economic crisis, but it has been used, also used as an excuse for implementing measures that have ended up being antisocial and even caused damage to this collective. I mean youth, that together with women and long-term unemployed are the three groups that have been most badly damaged from this whole situation. Yesterday we were trying to push for action to do what the Government of Galicia does not do, which is to try to end the precariousness of the work environment for women. We have not achieved it in this House, since the Government, the majority group in this House, the People's Party, has put forward the interests of its party, of some members of its party, of thousands of women who see themselves as precautionating their working life. Let's hope that when this motion is put forward as a result of today's questioning, we don't have this problem again and we can move forward in the quality of life of young people and girls. A youth with tremendous difficulties in entering the labour market. There is, Counselor, according to official data, 85,000 young people and girls aged 16 to 29 years less busy than in 2009, when you arrived at the government. What about those who find a job? That you have to face low wages, denigrating in many cases, which are the lowest thirds of all Spain; not only with regard to wage perceptions, but also on the basis of temporality. Of those who have one job two thirds have temporary contracts, more than 65% have contracts that don't last a week. The lack of employment or, in their fault, the bonding of precarious contracts leads young people to have to give up their life plan, to have a brake on their way, to lead a life of teenagers when they are adults. And as adults, they must also be treated on the basis of the consolidation of their rights. One of them, for example, to get out of their homes, to get independent. We have, Counsellor, the lowest rate of emancipation in all Spain, only behind the Canary Community. I understand, and I hope you agree with me, that something will have to see that a young man in Greece should devote 53% of his salary to rent or mortgage. These are data from the Emancipation Observatory of the Council of Youth of Spain in the first half of 2016; they are dramatic data, behind which there are thousands of young people and girls unable to jump into adult life. Those who pull the towel, those who get tired of getting up every morning to send out resumes over the Internet, or who walk around companies almost begging for a job, decide to leave. They decide to leave in a cartoon that I think represents well Davidla — which I suppose you all know, too, Counselor — where a young man with a briefcase, who could be at any of the airports in Galicia, says, "Looking for him to come, he let me go." They don't leave because they don't want it, as the Foreign Minister recently said, for "disquieting" or "widening of sights." They leave because they have an indecent pay in many cases, because they can't maintain or form a home. Otherwise, they wouldn't emigrate to another part of the world recently finished their studies. It's true that right now we've received more girls and girls than they leave; it's true, Counselor. But who are they coming back? Those with little training, those who at the time dedicated to the brick, those who went to work in the construction of the Canary Islands or the Levantine coast, or those who return because they went to the foreign country and the conditions imposed in other countries beyond our borders are cruel and unsustainable. What about those in whom we invest most in training? According to data from his own councillor, specifically from the Galego Qualification Institute, for each university student under 30 years of age who arrived in Galicia attracted by a job in recent years, two others left. I don't know what it looks like to you; from the Socialist Group, the valuation we make is that this is unacceptable. Either well plunged into working precariousness or out of the country, our youth faces two feelings: frustration and hopelessness. The frustration that leads to hearing one day after another that is the best-prepared generation in the history of this country, the best-forming one, and at the same time being aware that this is not useful for them to be able to reap a future. Desperation, hopelessness that leads to a government that says everything goes well or better, and that's when you go as bad as two and three years ago. In the face of this situation, what did you do? Youth budgets decreased by 28 per cent over the year 2009. They refused dozens, and I dare say hundreds, during these years of amendments from the Socialist Party to increase the budget allocation in youth matters. And then there's the topic of the 2014-2017 Youth Guarantee Plan. It's important to be in time, we're in 2017, there's only a few months left, and we've spent 5 of the 39 million that were available, that is 12.8%. After three years of doing almost nothing, Spain received warnings not only from organizations, bodies, institutions at the internal level such as the Council of the Youth of Spain, but from the OECD itself, from the European Commission, not only on the low level of implementation of these budgets, but on the quality of services. Counsellor, these young men and women, in terms of employment, training and training, the way out is temporary, it's bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. These are six-month contracts that never consolidate a stable job. I want to ask you today what they did to improve the implementation of this plan in Galicia. We are aware that there is even now a reform of this regulation which was adopted at the Congress of Deputies — Counsellor, before you tell me, I am aware, I am also aware of the activity in Congress — which has supported the Socialist Group, of course, and which, although we consider insufficient in the terms in which it was drafted by the Government, is indeed coming to correct some problems. But I want to know that you have made it until the entry into force, because we are talking about a period since 2014 and this regulation has just come into force now; if you have claimed something to the Government of Spain or have taken some kind of initiative in this regard. And also to talk about the future, which I know you always prefer me to refer to what they're going to do next and not to talk about the past, the measures that they're going to put in place to change this situation, which I imagine will coincide with me in which it's totally unsustainable. It doesn't seem to us as long as we go along the right path as they usually say to you. On the contrary, we think that the social and labor situation of youth continues to walk along a crooked path full of seals, in which the project of life of thousands of people often stumbles. That's why today, Counsellor, so today, Mr Counsellor -- I don't know what gives such a reason for laughter, then I'm convinced -- we wanted you to answer the questions that come in the initiative, which are questions that we ask not only from the Socialist Group, are questions that thousands of young people are asking themselves, those who are left here without hope, and those who have gone out and have no expectations to return to their country, to their land, to be with their families and their surroundings, which is quite hard, despite the fact that there are members of the Government calling themselves "foreign mobility" and members of the Government as the Foreign Minister -- as I said earlier -- that it does not seem like a familiar drama to them. It seems to us that the loss of tremendous potential for this country, not only in economic and social terms, but also in personal terms. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, when I read your initiative I was curious to know whether or not you were going to support your opinions in statistics today, and above all, I was curious to know whether this time I was going to use these statistics to try to reflect the vision that the Socialist Group wants to move on to Galicia. And I have to admit that in this case he has fulfilled all expectations. Because once again you omit all the data that show that Galicia is moving; omit that the employment rate of children under 30 exceeds that of the start of the second legislation; omit that Galicia is better than the average of Spain, and much better, by the way, than other autonomous communities that are their referents from the point of view of active employment policies, such as Andalusia, which has a employment rate of under 30 years below that we have in Galicia; and above all forget that this government acts and is taking concrete steps to give new opportunities to the younger. I will give you a specific fact, which is that it is EUR 150 million that this government has devoted to active employment policies in the last legislation. And another fact is that every year they benefit from these measures 33,000 boys and girls under 30 years of age. It's concrete evidence of how the Government is trying to open up new opportunities for our boys and girls. So I answer your question. The Galician Union clearly has concrete measures to promote employment between young people. And we have them from the first moment, and also with concrete results, because you know that the number of employees is growing by 4% among those under 30; you also know that your occupation is growing on a full day, specifically by 3.1%; and you also know that employees with an indefinite employment contract are also growing by 9%. However, Mrs Blanco, we are not yet satisfied because, indeed, the consequences of the economic crisis are not solved at all, and logically we must continue to work. But honestly, I don't think it's fair to tell the young gales and young gales that they don't have an exit in Galicia; it's not fair because, besides, it's not true. And much less it's fair -- and I'm going back to reflect the data here in this House -- that I'm trying to fool the younger people, because it's not true that Galicia is a country of migrants; because many cartoons you bring here are not true. And you know that since 2009 Galician migration balance with foreigners among people aged 19 to 29 is positive. Your Honor, since 2009 that migration balance has been positive in Galicia. So, honestly, it's not fair that you want to move here that young people don't have a way out, but it's less acceptable that you keep trying to trick young people, trying to move to Galician society that Galicia is a country of migrants. It's not fair, Your Honor, it's not true. You know perfectly well that we have a demographic problem in Galicia, which actually explains the fall of under 30, but a problem that is exactly the same not only in Galicia but also in Spain and Europe. It is therefore a problem that we have in Europe as a whole. That is why the three administrations believe that we must work together to address this challenge. And that's why he knows that the German Government has offered this House a political, social and economic pact for demography, in which we are working, and that we hope, logically, that the Socialist Party of Galicia can join him. As far as employment is concerned, you know that employment, especially among young people, is of course the highest priority of the German Government. It was before, when we had to devote resources to contain the economic crisis and to boost recovery, and in fact we have almost half under 30 years of unemployment that four years ago, and so is it now, when we've been growing for three years, and when expectations for the Galician economy continue to be positive. Commitments are collected in Agenda 2020 and are very concrete: generating between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs in legislation, reducing the unemployment rate to 10% and creating or converting 50,000 contracts into indefinite, among others. And he knows that in 2016 we're perfectly fulfilling this goal by reducing unemployment in Galicia by more than 20,000 people. All these objectives, Your Honor, are collected in this agenda, which seeks to promote a more favourable framework for creating new jobs, and, above all — and is a shared objective with the Socialist Party — logically, that these new jobs also have a higher quality. An agenda in which children under 30 are, of course, still a priority collective, so this year 2017 we will allocate about EUR 40 million precisely to the different active employment policies. In particular, these EUR 40 million will be devoted to training, recruitment and entrepreneurship. These are the three targets that are clearly marked in the roadmap for the most young: training, recruitment and entrepreneurship. Training, of course, is key to adapting the needs of our young people to the demands of the labour market. We have to make it easier to adapt to new technologies, so every year there are 6,000 under 30 years of age who take part in different training courses and employment workshops. Finally, we are trying to adapt the formation of our young people precisely to the demands of these new technologies, to the requirements of language and also to the requirements of Industry 4.0. Also, as you know, we're working from a sectoral point of view. We launched the I Sectoral Training Plan in Galicia, directed to the naval sector, in which we will invest 12 million euros in 170 courses, and we will also improve the qualification of 3,000 Greek professionals in this sector. In addition to training, we will continue to work in recruitment. We have incentives that can reach up to EUR 14,000 in the case of initial indefinite recruitment, and serve as an example that workers and workers who have helped Galician Union find employment in terms of recruitment, 47%, Your Honor, are young. Thirdly, in addition to training and recruitment, we will try to encourage entrepreneurial activity. In innovation, in the talent bet, that's where the greatest opportunities are. We will continue to promote the network of accelerators that we have in collaboration with the different institutions, and we will continue to develop this innovative talent capture program that extends the opportunities that we currently have, through the Opportunius and Principle programs, we have at the disposal of the most young. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we keep betting. You're talking about the Youth Guarantee Plan. I think you know perfectly well that this plan, the implementation of that program, has been delayed throughout Spain, you know it perfectly well, and you also know that in the evaluation report of December 2015 says textually: "Galicia presents a high executed budget level." In fact, he knows that the level of execution in our autonomous community is above the national average. It may have been confused with the data from the different autonomous communities and it has seen that in Andalusia they actually have a zero level of execution, but at this point Galicia is above the national average. Therefore, Mrs. Blanco, the facts show that Galicia is recovering from the economic crisis and is moving forward. The facts show that we are laying the groundwork so that the road we are about to go is easier and allows them to open up new opportunities on Thursdays, and, of course, the facts show that this Government has concrete measures, if it has active employment policies in the field of training, recruitment and entrepreneurship that are opportunities for our young people and our girls. It is only left, Your Honor, that the opposition understands that we are in a time of responsibility, that we are in a time of dialogue and, therefore, that we are in a time of jointly identifying policies that actually allow this ever-increasing work integration between our young people and our girls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u188	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u189	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, who have no exits, they don't need to be told either by this honourable Member or by no one, they know, or, if they do, by land, by sea and by air. Those are the ones who have their policies. So don't try to lie to me or say that this group is trying to cheat. Maybe you're the ones who have a sale and don't want to see the reality that's beyond our borders. Counselor, you were now talking about the Youth Guarantee Plan. It is true that we are above the average, if I am not mistaken, 0.1% above the state average, which is not very high either; and it is not too high because there was a brake on the part of the Government of Spain, the People's Party. But look, you didn't even do anything to press the Government of Spain to improve the action on this plan. There was a meeting of twelve presidents and presidents of autonomous communities in December last year, if I am not mistaken by date, where I have not seen on any side President Feijóo, who claims so much that he is going to Madrid to defend our autonomous community. There were presidents of all the political colors, less the People's Party, to improve the Youth Guarantee Plan, and if you did improve it, it was because the pressure of some autonomous communities was unbearable. If you have improved it — which was not enough either — it was under the pressure of the unions, it was for that reason, Counsellor. And for something even more important, because they've lost the absolute majority and they're not willing in Congress to do what they want; now they're no longer, Counselor. [[Applause]] And Mr. Feijó's abandonment occurred while here the Youth Guarantee Plan was denied to people who had a contract one day, or even a few hours, to those who were automatically expelled. And look... can I follow you, Mr President? [[Interruptions.]] In 2016 we grew less than in the rest of Spain: GDP, average per capita income, twelve points less than Spain, 20 points less than the European Union. [[Murmurs.]] It's the same, even if there was that expansion, we're going to put ourselves in that expansion, go through these young and young people, who are now working for 300 or 400 euros a month, who are working for hours, and tell them that there's no problem because we have economic expansion, because they don't notice that expansion in their current accounts, they don't notice that expansion in order to carry out their life project, but there's an economic expansion and there's an inequality -- that's the basis of everything, Mr. Counsellor -- that keeps them standing in the maternal home or, at most, getting the suitcase to leave. Three lines, if I'm not mistaken. Training. Of course, it's also funny that you come here to assume training when no courses were convened even last year. Entrepreneurship. I suppose it refers to a program that has been created I believe that three or four years—not, Counselor?—by the Galician Union and that it has a huge success. He's got such a big success that he's been paying attention in four years, 50 cases so far. Fifty cases of entrepreneurship, Counsellor, with the situation in this country and which continues to exist! It's hired. 47% are boys and girls. Man, of course, Counselor! How will they not be, if they remain unemployed the few who remain here? It is clear that the measures you have taken, which have so far been taken, have not worked, because if they worked, youth would not be in the social and economic situation in which you are in this country. That's why I ask you again what you are going to do from now on to change that situation; what proposals they have; what policies they're going to put in place for a very important sector that is not only the future of our autonomous community, but also our present. We are, Counselor, leaving us without opportunities not for a generation, but for more than a whole generation, which is neither fair nor possible from a social and economic point of view as a country. I ask you to reflect, I ask you to look at the data, that they are real, that they are some of your own department, your own government or the IGE, and to analyze whether it is possible and whether it is necessary to make a change that returns hope and removes the frustration of thousands of young people and girls. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, now I hope you understand why I started my first intervention by transferring that curiosity I had to know whether or not you were going to support statistics. And of course, now that they give you the same data, now that you don't care what happened in 2016... he said it in this gallery, he doesn't care. Perhaps in 2016 Spain's behavior was better or worse, it doesn't matter. Look, Your Honor, I believe that, indeed, Galicia's macroeconomic situation in 2016 had a much better behaviour than the Spanish average in terms of exports, in terms of industrial production index, in terms of growth. And to come here to say that it doesn't matter what that data is, it's really a situation that actually produces a certain curiosity to me. But, look, I think we have to come down here with data. So, I feel like you don't like it, but when I transfer it to you that the migration balance from Galicia to abroad among people aged 16 to 29 is positive since 2009, that's a reality. Trying to move in this House that Galicia is a country of migrants is simply trying to deceive people. And I'm telling you more, and I'm going to give you another specific data, in 2015 Galicia was the autonomous community with the least juvenile emigration, and that, Your Honor, is the real data. So, coming here distorting reality -- I told you -- doesn't seem fair, and, of course, it's not an answer to reality. As for the quality of employment, it's true that we have to improve, no doubt. It's true that we have to improve especially with the younger ones, and I think that's where we have to work. But, Your Honor, employees under the age of 30 with an indefinite contract are growing at 9%. He's growing his full-time occupation in particular at 3.1%, and 3 out of every 4 under 30 years, Your Honor, has a full-time job. That's the reality and the trend that's marking Galicia, and logically, of course we have to improve and of course we have to continue to open up new opportunities, but I don't think it's realistic to try to move a situation of despair in this House as you try to move, because it's not the reality that we're developing. Indeed, we will continue with the measures we have been developing to open these opportunities to Thursday; we will work for guidance and advice. We will continue to promote approved training with quality certificates; working in language training and in the formation of new technologies. Opening opportunities for Thursdays through non-working practices and also through recruitment incentives, and of course we will continue to work on incentives through social economy enterprise. Your Honor, come here to say that in matters of entrepreneurship this government has just attended to 50 projects is simply to ignore absolutely the map of support for the entrepreneurship that is developing this government. You do not seem to know the ViaGalicia program, which does not know the Galicia Open Future program, which does not know the Vodafone program, which does not know the co-working program with the School of Industrial Organization. It seems you don't know the Agrobiotech accelerator program, it seems you don't know that in Galicia we are developing a specific enterprise program for Bussines Factory in the automotive sector and you seem to know that in the past, this government has dedicated 12 million euros to 500 projects that are being undertaken and that are creating jobs in Galicia. I'm sorry that's the knowledge you have of reality. And to finish, Your Honor, the Youth Guarantee Program. This government at the sectoral conference, which is the framework for developing the demands of the different autonomous communities, has been demanding for several years that this youth guarantee programme can be improved. And the Government's response was powerful, indeed, that royal decree allows the system to be automatic and therefore the young people who are registered in unemployment to automatically become young people enrolled in the Youth Guarantee Program, and with that measure trying to improve the execution by all autonomous communities. Coming here is another lack of awareness of the reality of how a sectoral conference works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u192	Thank you, Counselor. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u193	Before I suspend the session until 6:30, I'll notify you of a change in the agenda. Before substantiation, the question will be raised by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, which appears in the first place. We'll do this at 4:30. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u194	Good afternoon. We resumed the session with questions to the Government, as previously noted. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the statements made in relation to women in the institutional discourse of the mayor of Noia on the occasion of the celebration of the International Women's Day on 8 March 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u195	Question by Ms. Olalla Rodil Fernández of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u196	Thank you, President. Counselor, talk to a woman here who can touch her nose without getting close. In the meantime I ask you, after what we could hear yesterday in the middle of the Lady by Mr. Santiago Freire, to avoid in his intervention to victimize the mayor. [[Applause]] Because it is very sad — not to say anything else — that they try to introduce us to this man as a victim after saying — one must remember that in an institutional act with the 8th of March, International Women's Day — many are the physiological difficulties that we have with respect to men and that this involves us and makes us very complicated to do physical force jobs, that we bleed unaccounted and that we are able to give light without electricity. Statements that aren't unfortunate, no. They are misogynistic and absolutely unacceptable in a political accountable and institutional representative. But, in addition, these are statements that give evidence of several things: what implies feminism without labels that the People's Party prays for, the creepy machismo that prevails in this society, the permissivity with which it acts when misogynistic behaviors behave with false humor and the double rod of measurement that you have on the basis of who the supposed jokes come. [[Applause]] And, I repeat, they're unacceptable in any case. Look, if we want to change things, if it's true that we work for a different society, from which we mess with attitudes, behaviors and macho stereotypes, we have to set an example by rooting out any denigrating behavior. Do you think it's acceptable for a political and institutional officer to treat women with harassment that portrays, by the way, the most basic macho prejudices? This gentleman just failed to say that we don't know how to drive or that we can't park a vehicle. Do you think a person with this gentleman's machir mentality can work for equality between women and men? Because we think you should be looking for where to get some kind of gender training, that's to start. What message do we send to society if we collectively do not reject attitudes, behaviors and comments like those of Mr. Santiago Freire? How do we then explain to the youth of this country what invisible violence is or what micromachims are when we do absolutely nothing if we have a clear example of them? The question is simple and very direct. Counsellor: Do you and the German Government think that a mayor, as is the case with the mayor of Noia, can you continue in his office after making disgusting and absolutely macho statements that undermine women's equality and dignity?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, look, no, I don't agree with what the mayor of Noia said. I don't think they have any justification for their words. That's why it's very funny, on the other hand, that if you say so, your group cheers you up. You say it for yourself, but they're very funny. They're neither funny nor told by you nor told by the mayor of Noia. [[Murmurs.]] And that's why I'm telling you that we couldn't find any justification and that the mayor of the girl had to do exactly what she did, that she was to apologize immediately, to say that she didn't have to say those words and say that she wasn't right. [[Applause]] That's what he said and that's what he did. And that's what we'd ask him if he hadn't done it right away. You're telling me what the assessment of the German Government is. My staff, if you like, I also give it to him: they're out of place told by him and told by you. Of course, it seems to you that depending on who says it or who splits it, they're different. You can tell us we killed women. And when none of the Tides of Podemos comes out in defense of the Lady of the Tides of Podemos who said this, it turns out that a Mr Bará, Mr BNG, comes out, saying that, well, we don't get things out of context, that are already those of the PP, which is not for that reason and that we are taking advantage of them. [[Murmurs.]] No one from the Tides of Podemos apologized to Mrs. Santos, it had to be the BNG who apologized to her — some day they would have to explain why. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm just telling you, look, when you make statements that don't have justification, you don't have justification, you make someone do them, you don't have political colors and you don't start looking at who you are or who you don't start to apologize for. And much less applause, as you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u199	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Rodil's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u200	Thank you. Is that the level? Is that all you have to say to me, trying to equate my intervention here today with the words spoken — I repeat — within the framework of March 8, an institutional act and by a political officer and a public representative? [[Applause]] I mean, are you trying to match my intervention with that gentleman's statements? Is that the level that this Parliament and this House have? Are we really not able to go further and try to make a collective reflection as an institution and political power that we represent in this country? [[Applause]] It's a run forward -- I don't know too well with what -- trying to ask for explanations for other events. I think it's all right, you bring it here as often as you like. But I'm not talking about it. What we are asking is, indeed — and I believe that the reflection was quite clear — that we should reflect collectively. You can't admit by a person who holds a public office — that he does so under any circumstances, but at least on 8 March, International Women's Day — that kind of public statements. That's what we're asking. And you have a responsibility, especially in the board you're taking and from which you're a member of the General Secretariat of Equality. You have the capacity to do more than ask that gentleman to apologize publicly. Because by that rule of three, any one of us here can commit any kind of attitude or behavior, or perform any kind of action, and simply retract and apologize, and then introduce us as supposed victims...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u201	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u202	Would you like to speak for me, Mr. Tellado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u203	Quiet, please. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Tellado, please. Mrs. Rodil is speaking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's not start, please! Mrs. Rodil is speaking and I don't want you to... No, don't interrupt, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Here's the thing. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u204	We repeat the same question as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u205	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u206	Let's see if we can talk about the cases and the subjects that we bring without abstraction to the other side. Because it happened on March 8th, when he tried to bring here issues of equality, on gender, that he had just talked about anything but that. So we're talking about the statements made — I repeat — by a mayor, by a public representative, in the framework of an institutional act, putting women back and forth again and again, making use of stereotypes and absolutely macho prejudices and absolutely misogynos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u208	We repeat the question — and I am finished, Mr President — that you will do something more than ask him to withdraw publicly? Do you really think a person who publicly pronounces this has the capacity to fight and work in this country against macho violence? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Shut up. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, I didn't match anything. It's just that you started repeating exactly the same words. What happens is that if you say March 8 in the mayor's house, it's very serious — that they are — but if you say it in Parliament on March 22 is something for your group to applaud and laugh at. That's the huge difference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u211	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u212	That's what we should think about, that you, depending on who does it, have a different measuring rod, and it shouldn't be that way. [[Murmurs.]] Look, this is good or bad in all circumstances, everywhere, and do it whoever does it. Look, the mayor of Santiago also said the other day that the People's Valedora no longer writes love letters to her, which may well be that she misses her. Isn't that worth any reflection? Don't you have to say anything like that? Are you going to defend him as well as they defended Mrs. Carmen Santos, saying that, well, that nothing happens, that this is what they say? Like somebody says it's not from the PP, because they're right. Listen, when someone at the PP says it's bad, and when somebody says it at the Podemos tides or when someone at the BNG says it's bad too. And it is much worse to apologize, as you have done, the words of Mrs. Carmen Santos. [[Applause]] And I'm sorry to say one thing: while Mrs. Carmen Santos doesn't apologize for saying that the PP kills women and while you stand up for it, in my opinion — and I have to tell her why you ask the question and bring me to answer it — they have very little — as no — moral authority to criticize anyone. Don't worry that our mayor has already criticized us when he doesn't do things well; when you do the same, his applause. Take note of that too and reflect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u213	Thank you, Vice President. We're still on the agenda. Interpellations. Interpellation by Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas, of the G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the distribution of wage income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u214	Mr. Lago has the floor to make an inquiry. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, that's not mandatory. Sorry, that's not mandatory. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, no... but ask for it differently. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I didn't like the way to ask him, I'm telling him clearly too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry, I'm talking. I don't like that way of asking. If you have to ask him, ask him otherwise. [[Mr. Lago Peñas words that are not perceived.]] That's not a way to ask. So that's what I have to tell you, Mr. Lago. And get to the point. Whenever you want, you can start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u215	I came here to talk about economics and jobs, but opposition groups cannot do our job because the government party is trying to provoke. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, my friend Carmen Santos doesn't need me to defend her because she's able to defend herself. [[Murmurs.]] I would like to see Mr. Rueda and the members of the People's Party defending former Senator Luis Fraga — Fraga — who has just said that box B of Basel is the box of Genoa. [[Applause]] And I'd like to hear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u216	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u217	... MPs and Members of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u218	That's the question, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u219	...to deny the drug dealer who just said today that he was funding the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u220	That's the question, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u221	And that's the style...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u222	Mr. Lago, on the matter. Interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u223	I appreciate it, and I'm going to the interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u224	Go to the interrogation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u225	And I'm going to show more seriousness than the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u226	Go to the interrogation, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u227	Well, I'm aware of the scarce preaching that a trade union economist, like I am, has on the right benches, so I decided to be accompanied to present this question. First of all, by Adam Smith, the father of the economy, who at the end of the 18th century did not hesitate to say that no society can be flourishing and happy if most of its members are poor. Well, one of the worst consequences of the crisis, especially the neoliberal management of the crisis, is the unbearable increase in inequality and poverty to turn them into structural variables of the system. And I don't just say it, here I also come accompanied by friends of the People's Party. Because the social and economic problems arising from inequality are so serious that the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the International Labour Organization, the OECD and even the Catholic Intermón Oxfam, in addition to BBVA, qualify inequality as a central imbalance in the Spanish economy. We have a problem, we have a huge problem. To speak to ILO, which in its 2016-2017 Wages Report denounces that the Spanish State is among the countries most affected by wage inequality. This is the neoliberal OECD, which places Spain among the countries with the highest wage inequality, because we occupy the 24th of the 34 OECD member states. And besides, it's the fault of inequality, unemployment, work insecurity and youth unemployment. The OECD literally says, "poverty has grown mainly because of a lack of quality employment that provides sufficient hours of work and adequate income." It is denounced by the guardian of orthodoxy, the International Monetary Fund, who places Spain as the third state of Europe where the rich have achieved a greater proportion of income, pointing out that the inequality of income and the risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased considerably from the crisis. He demonstrated it in his October 2016 report, which reveals that Spain is the second country in the European Union where the difference between high and low incomes grew the most. And I say, for example, Ibex 35 business managers earn 100 times as much as their employees average. It denounces it to the conservative and austeric European Commission, which places inequality, the risk of poverty and social exclusion among the main challenges facing the Spanish State and synthesizes it in a given: inequality between the richest and the poorest 20% in Spain is one of the highest in the whole European Union and continues to rise. It is confirmed by BBVA: Spain is one of the countries in which inequality and poverty grew the most in the crisis, because its effects have been distributed asymmetrically, bringing the highest cost on the middle and low income states. BBVA makes an effort and explains why this happened. It explains that since 75% of household income is income and therefore the level of employment and wage are those that determine this problem of distribution of wealth, and as a bank, it quantifies it: 80% of the increase in inequality in Spain is due to the increase in unemployment and wage dispersal caused by temporary employment, part-time work and false autonomy. It is clear — as I say, all these institutions — that there is a problem of inequality, and that problem arises in the distribution of income between wages and profits, and that is therefore decisive in what has happened in that distribution in the labour market these years. First, Counsellor: in 2017 we have the same level of GDP as in 2008, we overcome the effects of the recession. But the wages, apart from GDP, of the income that is intended to pay wages, is EUR 2.7 billion less. So in real terms, inflation was discounted, same level of GDP, but wage income dropped by 20%. And what about a distribution of an equal amount, if there's 20% less wages, where's that 20% missing, Counselor? Secondly, within the employees there was a negative redistribution against those who were already in a more precarious situation. Between 2008 and 2015, all average Greek employees lost purchasing power, but in a special way, especially hard, for those less charged. For an average fall in real terms of wages 2008-2015 of 7%, the people who earn the least, those who occupy Dec 1 in the active population survey, lost 29%, i.e. four times as much as the average, and this means shooting the ratio of inequality. Before the recession, the ones most taxed seven times as much as the ones less charged; after the recession, the ones most taxed eleven times as much as the ones less charged. And that's going to go from seven to eleven, an increase of 45% of the wage inequality meter. In absolute figures — to be understood well — the IGE data describe a situation in the wage reality of inequality, but also labour poverty, because there are in Galicia — IGE data — 80,000 employees who average a wage of 429 gross euros in twelve payments; there are 84,000 who are in the second decade, and who enter EUR 826 per month in twelve payments; and there are even 98,000 people, in the third decade, who make an average gross EUR 1,100 in twelve payments. If we add it up and calculate it and transfer it to fourteen salaries, so that we can make a comparison of the usual salary, we have 262,000 employees in Galicia who have a net salary of less than 900 euros per month. And that's using an indicator that also makes ILO, which is to distribute the wage mass between December, and we found that in Galicia the 8% of the employees who earn the most earned 20 percent of the salary mass, while 10% of those who earn the least have only 2.4% of the salary mass. What's that supposed to mean? What are we talking about? Of inequality and poverty. And when one analyzes the composition of the Dec 1, of those 80,000 people who are in the Dec of lower EPA income, it understands where the problem is. Because it's done: 80% of those who earn the least are women, 92% work part-time, 47% are under 39, 50% have primary education, 94% work in low-quality services, 97% are in the private sector, and 51% have a temporary contract. These are the coordinates that define those who suffer most from inequality: they are people who work part-time and in sectors of low-value added service, mainly provided by women, in their younger majority, who work in small private sector companies, with a temporary contract, with a lot of rotation and therefore with short professional careers. Labour precariousness, inequality, poverty, are three interrelated realities that come from an unfair growth model, a productive structure in which the activities of low value and labour lawmaking that have imbalanced labour relations, favoring overexploitation of the working class. For all this, the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea presents the following appeal: do you have any strategy to combat inequality, achieving a fairer and more efficient distribution of wage income?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u228	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lake. In fact, if we talk about inequality in the distribution of wage income, we talk about unemployment and we talk about youth unemployment, we are talking about the main problems facing the labour market, not only in Galicia, Spain, but in any market economy. And so one of the goals that has to have any employment policy is, in fact, to fight this inequality of wage distribution, to fight unemployment and also to fight youth unemployment. So in that sense we fully agree. I think you will also agree with me if I move you that the first objective of any employment policy should be precisely employment and therefore the starting point is precisely job creation. Let me, in that sense — you have also moved that comparison — remind you that in July 2008 the number of members of Social Security began to fall and by April 2009 more than 65,000 Greeks and Greeks lost their jobs. It's a data that's there. And he also knows that, on the contrary, we've been creating jobs for three years now, and in fact, only in the last year in Galicia are 18,027 more members of Social Security. So today the situation of many Greeks and many Greeks is better than they had in 2009, and it's simply because the first objective of the Union was precisely that the Greeks could have a job and that the number of employees was increasing in our autonomous community. You know, by giving more data, that indefinite recruitment has also grown in the last year about 10% and that full-time contracts have increased to 8.7%, and that two out of every three employees in Galicia are undefined with a full-time employment contract. You also know, by continuing to provide data, that the gender pay gap is today the second lowest in the last decade in Galicia, the second lowest in the last decade, and that wage inequalities -- although there are -- in Galicia are smaller than in the whole state and have also decreased since 2009. And he also knows that wage costs in Galicia are already growing and are doing so at a rate similar to that of the state as a whole. And all of this, Your Honor, which are data of the situation and of the tendency that the labour market is having in Galicia, does not lead us to be satisfied with this situation, but logically, the Government is fully aware that we have to continue to work on equal pay, that we have to continue to work on job creation, that we have to continue to open up opportunities for the younger ones and that we have to continue to work on generating quality jobs. That contrasts, unfortunately, with a partial vision of a reality that is complex. If you bring here a partial analysis, because logically, surely, the conclusions cannot be the same. In any case, there is no doubt that much remains to be done, there is no doubt that there must continue to be a more balanced distribution of wages, and logically that is a work of all economic and social agents; it is therefore a work of trade unions, of employers, of collective bargaining; and a responsibility, logically also, of the central government and of the self-government of the Autonomous Community, to lay the foundations for correcting these situations. You know that the Central Government is also working and is concerned about this matter, and you know that this year there has been an increase in the minimum interprofessional wage of 8%, 8%, which, logically, is consistent with the reality that the State is living and with this objective of transferring economic recovery to those who need it most. Because at that point we fully agree that the recovery that is suffering from the Spanish economy and the Greek economy must be directed — that effort — to those who need it most. An increase in the minimum interprofessional wage of 8% is a measure that goes in that direction. And he also knows that the Government has currently opened a quality employment dialogue table and, therefore, to configure from the consensus a comprehensive agenda for quality employment. A dialogue in which the Galician Union is also and wants to bring to this House, and it wants to bring the reality of the Greek economy under a Employment Act. A Employment Act that has to continue all these efforts, an Employment Act that aims to be the first community to adopt a legal text adapted to the new state framework and, above all, an Employment Act that allows us to implement more effective policies to achieve that goal of creating more jobs, creating more stable jobs, creating more quality jobs and thus logically reducing wage differences. And the Employment Act also aims — a very important aspect, which I think will be very interesting to debate in this House — to order the current employment ecosystem by promoting coordination among all public and private institutions that are working on this objective of improving employment. In Galicia too, in the wake of collective bargaining, we understand that we must continue to work, and in particular we understand that collective bargaining must incorporate measures that allow companies to improve the remuneration of workers and workers; all this, logically, at the most institutional level and at the most concerning the autonomy of economic and social agents. In any case, within the framework of this Employment Act, we want to work with unions and employers to deal with pending reforms towards a more productive model and a more innovative model. For this, measures must be introduced. You ask me what those measures are. These measures are set out in Agenda 20 for employment. We are introducing measures that favour indefinite recruitment. We're going to give more help to those companies that have a higher rate of stability and therefore also promote equality. And we're going to launch new measures so that people who are worse at the moment, as they may be and as long-term unemployed and people at risk of social exclusion, have more opportunities. This means aid for the indefinite recruitment of workers who have exhausted the benefit, which in the case of Galicia can reach up to EUR 25,000, and also, in that specific programme of guidance and labour integration, to reduce families who have all their assets at risk. These are initiatives, Mr Lago, in which we are working, we are taking new steps, and all of this must also be accompanied by an effort in the field of training, because, logically, the higher the training we are working on, the more opportunities our employees will have to correct this situation. Finally, if we want to work on the correction of wage imbalances, we have to work on quality employment, and that quality job goes through training, it goes through talent and innovation, and Galicia logically understands it. It is one thing that I think it is important that Galicia should not compete in any case is by reducing wages. Galicia has to compete in a labour market that bets on talent, innovation, and therefore through this job creation we can reduce these wage differences. That means a bet by the Industry 4.0 Agenda; that means a bet by the strategy of smart specialization; that means, ultimately, a bet by the knowledge economy, by the digital transformation, by the R & D+i and by the capture of innovative talent. Finally, Mr Lago, we agree on the objectives, we agree on priorities, and what we have to do logically is identify and agree, to be possible in this House, with those measures that we understand are in the context of a new production model, focusing on innovation and focusing on digitisation, and that from that point on logically with that job creation, and more quality employment, we can face this joint challenge that we have, which is only one that decreases also those wage differences which today unfortunately still persist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u230	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u231	Counselor, I'd end up agreeing with me, I'll start agreeing with you. Indeed, inequality and labour poverty are a problem that affects the whole of the world's capitalist economies and, in fact, is being placed as a central element of any analysis. There's a big problem. I, in that sense, I don't know if you noticed, because the beginning was a little steep, but I didn't blame the People's Party or the Government of Beijóo for this happening; it's not what I'm talking about; I don't take the second quarter of 2009 to... I say that society, the working class, the Greeks and the Greeks have a problem, which is called inequality and labour poverty, which concerns us all, first of all, the Government. And in that sense, I'd like more than in the Government's statements and in its plans they began to recognize this problem, recognizing this real problem. Sometimes it's recognized that there's a lot of unemployment, sometimes if... but we recognize this problem, let's say that there's a part of the Greek working class, between 20% and 30%, which has wages that you can't live with. We recognize that there is an inequality of wage income where a part of society is benefiting from the exit of recession and not, and we act against it. Act like? I suppose we'll have more time to discuss this subject, but I was saying -- I don't know if it's understood well -- that this, the growth of inequality and labour poverty, has to do with an unfair growth model, because we're looking at these days -- and I'm going to take the opposite -- how business benefits increase in an important and powerful way, and wages -- just come out of the fourth quarter of the quarterly labour cost survey -- in Galicia they're down — fourth quarter of 2016 with fourth quarter of the year 2015 -- 0.3% nominal, nominal; with inflation of 3%, wages are losing 3.3% of purchasing power. That's unfair, that is, it can't be that the economy is growing to 3.1 per cent, it can't be that business benefits have to use two digits to say how they go and that wages are falling. That's an unfair model, counselor, that we'll have to fight. It's true: there's collective bargaining, which has to be used to remedy this. But that, as I shall say later, has something to do with labour standards and with whom it has the greatest power, as is happening today with Pescanova workers, to impose new conditions, worse working conditions. The second is that — and this is actually going directly to your Council — low value activities are gaining weight within the services. That is, every time the economy of Greece is less industrial, it's more of the services and within the services is trade, hospitality, low-value services; low-value services that by definition cannot pay high wages; that is, working in the wine shop in the Coruña you can't charge the same as working in Natural Gas; it's obvious. In other words, the generation of value in a productive activity determines how income is subsequently distributed. And there we have a problem, counselor, we have a problem: we are deindustrializing, we are third-partying and we are third-partying in low-value activities. And the third element — and if there is a radical discrepancy — is the theme of labor law. This started in 2010, without the ruling of the People's Party in the State. This was an order given by the European Commission, the Troica, and he said: there must be a wage devaluation in Spain to make Spain a competitive country. And the government — the government of 2010 and the government of 2012 — applied a new labour regulation to favor that. I put the letter that Trichet wrote to the president in 2010, to my college students -- and I finish with this -- in 2010, because it is inconceivable. Trichet was the President of the European Central Bank. We are in 2010, in the midst of the debt crisis that Europe is in. Trichet writes a letter of two sheets, and you know what he says in the letter, Counselor? Tell the President of the Government of Spain that he has to change collective bargaining and that collective business agreements must prevail over collective agreements in the sector. Trichet, debt crisis, President of the European Central Bank, and decides what collective bargaining will have to do in Spain in 2010. Indeed, the model of labour relations born in 2010, which worsens in 2012, explains in part why the distribution between profits and wages is getting worse and worse. Because companies — Pescanova is an example — use that threat, they're saying: there's no ultraactivity of agreements, or we've already agreed or put it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u233	...in the provincial food agreement or in the minimum interprofessional wage, and that is an imbalance in working relationships. So let's act on that, act on the model of growth, act on the productive structure of the country, and act on labor legislation, which conditions working relationships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u234	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, I think we fully agree that the first is to get the job back. And, therefore, if we want to get back to work, we have to put on the table, indeed, the measures that can give a clear answer to that job recovery. We agree that, indeed, a productive model focused on industry and, therefore, focused on innovation and focused on new technologies is the way for Galicia to be competitive in the first place; secondly, we can create jobs; and thirdly, we can create quality jobs. So I think it would be good if we could focus on discussing these issues in the future, because they are the answer to many of the questions you bring me here to Parliament. And in that context logically it would be good to be able to debate what is En Marea's position on innovation policy and the strategy of smart specialization, or what is En Marea's position on the Industry 4.0 Agenda. I'd like to know why In Marea, so far, it doesn't support the Rozas project, which is an innovation project, it's a future project, it's a project that's creating jobs and it's a project that's creating quality jobs. I believe that we would have to debate these kinds of issues, because that is what can actually give answers to what citizens are asking us to do, when the goal is only to create jobs and create quality jobs. And by setting an example, and bringing here, trying to bring coherence into the approaches, the question would be that we have to try to develop all the initiatives so that Galicia, from the point of view of infrastructure, is competitive. The question here is how En Marea can support an initiative on the conflict of the yards that is jeopardizing the position of the ports of Greece in front of Portugal. We can talk about that coherence in industrial policy. So — I insist — the main objective is job creation, quality employment. I am aware and the Government is aware that it has many edges. Because when we talk about quality employment, quality is to train our workers, quality is to open them opportunities from the point of view of new technologies and from the point of view of innovation opportunities, quality is also to promote indefinite full-time recruitment and quality is also to strengthen the foundations for equal opportunities. Also quality is to involve workers in the company's strategy in social and business responsibility, or it's, logically also, to facilitate an increase in wages through the training of our talent. Quality employment has many derivatives, in which action must be taken, and action must be taken through active employment policies. And I think that's where we have to focus the initiatives. And indeed, with regard to companies — you speak of Pescanova, we will later have an opportunity to talk about the situation in Pescanova — you know perfectly well that labour reform has given many opportunities for many companies to continue to create or maintain jobs. And you know that labour reform, for example, gave Citroën the opportunity to reach an agreement with the workers to effectively maintain their rights and be more competitive. And that also put it on the table for work reform. And you know that the European Commission, in a report, has gathered that the reforms in Spain have allowed the probability of moving from unemployment to indefinite employment to increase; that is what the European Commission says. I therefore believe, Mr Lago, that the objective is really employment, the objective is quality employment, and from there, logically all complementary measures to combat the situation of wage inequality, which is indeed a direct consequence that is being reflected in the labour market. And, therefore, what we have to talk about is employment and really debate about this industrial policy that can enable us, through Industry 4.0 and the strategies of smart specialization, to create more jobs and more quality jobs, also to promote infrastructure and, above all, to put coherence in the debate when we want to do it is to bet on the industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u236	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of En Marea on mental health management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u237	You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u238	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Different professional collectives in defense of public health have been reporting for years the progressive deterioration of mental health in Galicia, which not only suffers the cuts applied to the totality of public health. Mental health — it has often been said, in a colloquial way — is the poor sister of the rest of the system, always second to the Government's health priorities. This situation has been denounced by the public health groups, the Galego Mental Health Movement, professionals working in our health system, the Galician College of Psychology, etc., etc. And, of course, it seems that not only does it take note in the last few years of this situation but the frank deterioration of mental health in Galicia is progressing as time passes. The events in the Psychiatric Hospital Unit at the Conxo Hospital that came out of the media show the impact of the cuts reported. The suicide of a patient and a report of a alleged sexual assault on the part of another patient entering the same unit must be understood, precisely as the Galego Mental Health Movement denounces, in the context of this deterioration in the quality of services due to the cuts in the last decade, practically in these last legislations. In the Psychiatric Hospitalization Unit of Conxo there were several public complaints from different instances due to the shortage of staffing in that unit, with a frequent withdrawal of the nursing professionals from it to meet the needs of other plants; i.e., what we were talking about in the morning, the lack of coverage of casualties, vacations, temporary disabilities. The precariousness experienced by professionals in other units also makes you move from one plant to another, from one service to another, precisely not to hire, and sometimes it's the nurses and nurses in those units who have to cover those staff that are missing in other units, which have nothing to do with. In addition, there is little activity of the patients who have entered. They claim that there are not adequate facilities, that there are insufficient means, also the lack of occupational therapy or even the lack of coordination and development of therapeutic plans with the participation of health and health professionals, which is also reported in other mental health care units. In spite of all these complaints about cuts and complaints about the limited resources, nothing has been done to correct those allegations that professional groups have been reporting for years. This has just been added, as you know, to the complaint before the death of a psychiatric patient who was in mechanical containment at the CHUAC Psychiatric Hospitalization Unit. They also denounce workers and workers that the situation in this unit has also been the subject of multiple complaints about the deficiencies sustained in time and that they have significant damage, in their understanding, to the care rights of patients in the Coruña area. They report serious inadequacies in the vocational, residential infrastructure and operation itself, moving, as happens in Compostela, which lack sufficient space for common activities of patients, that most or at least half of the rooms have no bathroom for those people who are entering, that there is a room for multiple mechanical containment — we understand that fruit too and related to this complaint of that patient's death — with three beds separated by curtains, which is not known the specific protocol for indication, that the unit is infred by professionals, that there is no collaboration with professionals to prepare mental health planning, which has to meet the entire unit one psychiatrist, with a resident doctor, and that there is also no obvious presence of nursing professionals. It remains to be said that, of course, the Health Council is not endeavouring to hire professional specialists in psychiatric nursing. We are told that the discrimination suffered by these psychiatric patients entered that unit is patent because, if there are no sufficient material or human means, of course, it cannot be provided, even though professionals want it, optimal attention for these people. Obviously, this has an impact on the rights of sick people or people who need mental health care. This group is asked, therefore, why this group is not asked why it will be done by Junta de Galicia in this situation, because, we repeat, these examples, which are probably the most visible ones because they are very serious and because they have emerged in the media, they are not the only few cases, they are not the unfortunate cases without more, isolated, but rather are still part of the framework of cuts and the lack of resources that are chronically lacking in the sense of mental health: the absence of psychologists and psychologists in primary care, who are the only ones in the media, who have denounced the school itself, but also the other groups; the transfers of patients and other groups, of the last resort, but rather isolated cases, but rather because they are part part of the scandalous dwellings, and lack of the lack of resources that reside in the circumstances of the third-aged residences of cuts and lack of resources, and lack of the lack of resources, and lack of resources, which have been the reason for the reason why the urgency of the situation of success of success of the situation in this third age, which has resulted in this Chambers in this Chambers of lack of self-in which there is a lack of non lack of not in law, and that there is no sense, and that there is no sense, and that there is no sense of justice, and that there, and that there, or rather well-ful self- They also transfer us, precisely, those psychologists or psychologists who, in primary care, of every three consultations that are attended by medical professionals, one has to do with emotional disorders or have a psychological component, something that has been evidenced, in addition, or that they notice, whenever they talk to us -- and I understand that to anyone else -- from the beginning of the economic crisis, which is quite logical; that is, people are dealing with many more problems from their situation, and obviously there is a need for a reinforcement of mental health, but the opposite is being done. We don't have a new mental health plan either — they've been claiming it for a long time by the professionals—; a plan that is made collaborative with them and them, but a plan that has resources, because if not, obviously, it will serve very little. And obviously, a continuing complaint is the forgetfulness of child-juvenile mental health. They promised a second unit, in the case of hospitalization, that not only was it done but the present one has a lot of shortcomings, and it is not really paying attention to the mental health of the children and children of this country, or the serious mental disorder; not to mention the situation of the country's addictive behaviors. We have already discussed during the budgetary debate how over the course of time, over the two legislations, the cuts applied from the beginning of the economic crisis to all the games devoted, precisely, to the prevention of drug addiction and addictions in general. And, in addition, this was obviously not reflected in an incorporation or in a step of that attention in the Galician Health Service; that step that should be taken from the care of additive conduct within the Galician Health Service itself, as it has been claimed for many years and which is pending. So I'll be done by now. In the face of all this and these news, which were the ones that sparked this inquiry, but which include the deterioration of all mental health in our country, we wonder what the immediate measures you intend to carry out, whether or not they have already begun, to prevent the repetition of events of the same or similar nature; if you have prepared a report on the situation of means and resources in these psychiatric units, because I imagine that, after these complaints, the Council will have initiated some investigation on this matter; and if you are heard and taken into account by the Council of Galicia, the demands and warnings of these collectives and professionals in this matter. We understand, without any kind of criterion in favour of them and of them, that logically they are the professionals — just because they are there — those who work every day, logically those who will have more knowledge of the situation of services, of the deficiencies and that there must be improvement in that service. And they also plan to equip you with enough staff, as well as specialized nursing professionals, these units to at least try to give a better service than they do. I assure you that not only would people who have the right to have that mental health in the Galician Health Service but professionals who don't want to work, logically, in these conditions. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u240	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Solla, I was surprised when they told me that I was doing this interrogation today, because I understood that you were here 15 days ago, in this House, where there was the same interpellation but another political group. The truth is, I'm surprised, what happens is, well, what I think is that they have more or less a manual and try to always say the same thing; they change the service, the geographic area, and from there they always say the same thing. Look—and I say a lot about what I said 15 days ago, because obviously things have not changed at this time—in relation to the public complaint made about the deterioration of psychiatric care in general, and specifically in the area of Santiago de Compostela—and I say in the area of Santiago de Compostela because you have orally added the theme of the Coruña, which was not on the original theme, but then we will also talk about the Coruña—, based on two specific situations that have occurred in recent months in the area of hospitalization of acute patients, I have to say once again that in recent years there has been no decrease in any of the health resources devoted to mental health in the area of Santiago, neither in infrastructure nor in staff, but, on the contrary, the idea of expanding it to the southern part of Galicia, such as the Psychiatric Hospitalization Unit Infantjuvenil, which is the only in Galicia up to this moment, but we have, as you said, the idea of expanding it to the southern part of Galicia. To this day, we have this unit of child-to-child psychiatry which is model and magnificent professionals are doing a great job there. At the same time, numerous community and home care programmes have been implemented, as well as intermediate community integration devices - pre- and flats - for these patients, so that they always have hospital beds for acute patients in the two existing units, and they were made in the same hundreds of revenues throughout the year. These units have the recommended professional ratio. We can confirm that 100 percent of the vacancies generated by retirements have been covered, including the assistance part of USC-related squares. With regard to the events mentioned above, it should be noted that they continue in judicial proceedings and that in both cases the protocols provided for in these circumstances have been activated. In this sense, and as far as staffing is concerned, both personnel ratios and preventive protocols were the right ones, according to the clinical indications and the pathologies of patients. In these specific cases, I am sure that professionals have acted rigorously and professionally, regardless of whether in medical practice it is not possible to ensure results, and in these pathologies, as in any other, unexpected and unpredictable situations and outcomes can occur. The patient had indicated the protocol appropriate to their clinical and risk situation, in addition to general measures for all patients. The events occurred during the night shift, which included the regular full-time staff. The plant does not have an occupational therapist — which is a claim you make — because it exists in the Gil Casares hospital, shared with the child hospital. The therapist never works in shift at night. Their existence would not involve any protection or improvement of the attention to suicide risk in the night shift. I think you're mixing one thing with another, which has absolutely nothing to do with it. After the facts, the nursing staff protection protocol was initiated and, through the head of nursing, psychological and psychiatric support was offered. The care team continues its ongoing work of improvement in all patients' health care. All information that has been requested is forwarded to the court. Obviously, we can't give much more data because, as I say, it's under investigation by the judge, and we're very respectful of this situation. As to what he says about the CHUAC psychiatric unit, well, we ask for reports because, as he went out in the press and usually his sources are press, because we ask the head of the service, and there is no information in the unit about the reported facts: the death of a patient while he was being subjected to mechanical subjection, lack of personnel, lack of resources... the patient who died recently was not in mechanical containment or there was no demand. The University Hospital Complex of Coruña is a modern hospital, with all the specifications of a general hospital. The complex is composed of the various centers and both Oza and Teresa Herrera and Abente and Lake make up, as you know, the CHUAC. The plant is designed with 34 squares, and in recent years the average occupation is 24, 10 below the total squares. In addition, it has two common rooms instead of one, as in most units, and a gardened enclosure. I think this hospital, Oza's hospital, is known, has the characteristics of the situation and suitable facilities for this type of treatment. The bathrooms are separated between men and women, and they could always put on more bathrooms, but logically, without it being at the expense of the number of beds. With respect to the mechanical containment room, with 3 beds, is an intensive surveillance room separated by curtains. Usually men and women are separated. The staff of the unit scrupulously respect everything about the privacy and dignity of the patient, and in any case this situation is confined to very timely and limited cases over time. In terms of personnel, there are 1 optional for every 6 beds, and of these 2 guards more than in most hospitals. As for the nurse's staffing, it must be borne in mind that it counts with a staff of 34 beds, when the average occupation, as I said before, is around 24, 10 minus. Psychologists perform the ratio for an acute unit. So I want to strongly deny that there is discrimination between our patients and no other Sergas patient. With regard to the misunderstanding that selective processes are not transparent — at some point they have even come to talk about the lack of professionals and people who are working there — it seems not to be received. We, as I say, are at a time of change, at the level of psychiatric units, than were the old asylums to much more open processes and units, with staffing, and, as I said, logically, with a very important specialization. Today the average level of psychiatrists in Galicia and Spain, thanks to MIR training, is excellent. We have, of course, very good professionals, and we are also at the stage of creating mental health specialist nurse squares. But we also want to do a parallel process so that nurses who have been working on these units for many years will be able to acquire this qualification and can continue to do this important work because, as I say, in the units of our hospitals and in the units of the day, they also do this very specific work. That is why I think we should continue to work on the improvement of general psychiatry, and also that logically we are currently developing, among other things, activities for the next few weeks, for the next few months, the suicide prevention plan in Galicia — very important. To that end, a working group was formed with experts from different areas of society to promote social awareness about the problem of suicide and facilitate coordination between the different sectors and agents involved in its prevention. The process of drawing up the Plan is at the final stage of consensus on strategic lines and measures, and the work proposals for the elaboration of existential processes and coordination actions necessary for their involvement have already been initiated. It's a shame that the mental health interrogations are fifteen days apart, because we'd like to present this suicide prevention plan immediately. The Plan for the Prevention of Suicide in Galicia includes, among other things, the establishment of an interinstitutional coordinating commission for the prevention and care of suicides which ensures continuous evolution, the follow-up of the strategic measures of the plan and its indicators, as well as the implementation of the coordinated actions undertaken. For the moment, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u241	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u242	Thank you, President. To me, Mr. Almuña, you can't offend me, what I'm worried about is that the banalization that we bring here this question, which is very serious, to make the health adviser, because, look, the issue is not trivial, it's not a joke, it's not to take the joke, and it's not to try to make a Member look down on the subject and bring it to you to this whole to investigate the situation of mental health in our country. And obviously, of course, it matters for occupational therapists, not for the emergency situation, but for the situation in which people who come or come to the mental health services in our country are cared for. And, of course, what this honourable Member was doing was the relationship between the plight of mental health in our country and the complaints that for years have been made by public health professionals, who are the ones who, in the end, have to deal with these shortcomings, because, of course, there is no question here about these health professionals, quite the opposite, they have to suffer the cuts — yes, cuts — that you apply. They're not isolated cases, and the show is that they've been reporting for years. Here's a news from 2014 that says, "They report at least five suicides in hospitals in the last three years. On August 9, a patient was taken away from life in a mental health unit. How is it possible for a person entering a suicide attempt to get him into a hospital? This is the reflection of the patient's defense counsel." As much as anyone does, that is, the complaints are not this year, they are not a particular case, the allegations that there is a lack of resources in the mental health units in the country have been producing for years, and, of course, there is no health service with zero risk, and clearly there can be errors. It's obvious, that's clear, but when, in addition, there's a lack of sufficient staff, when, in addition, there's a lack of sufficient resources, and when professionals are demanding the need for those improvements, and you're making deaf ears the risk multiply. It's normal, it's logical. Obviously, a suicide care plan and a mental health plan are needed, they've been demanding professionals for a long time; the problem is that you're not doing yourself with those professionals, those themselves who are moving the deficiencies that have these services, where then you report these things happening. You always do the same thing, you talk again about the expansion of childcare to the south, but we've been on that promise for years. I was a Member in the previous legislation, we have discussed it on several occasions here, and that has not happened. The election campaigns go through, and you never do, and not only never do, but the Psychiatric Hospitalization Unit for Children and Adolescents, which opened up in the north area in Santiago, counts on half the beds that were planned. I mean, the only thing that matters is the headline, then we don't have enough means, but that's what gives you the most? What more can you give them! Mental health is still the same, and you still don't listen to professional complaints. That unit is still without a clinical psychologist; not only do we have the problem of occupational therapists, you must seem enough to have an occupational therapist for a whole center, but there is also no clinical psychologist, there is no social worker... that is, you are failing your own strategic mental health plan, the plan that is of the Council. It doesn't matter what color the council is, it's the Council's plan, and you're in charge of it. Is that true of mental health? Do not apply snippets? I think you should think that the important thing isn't the headlines. You say again here today that of the new infant-juvenile unit, when they've been promising this circumstance for years. You also say that in these particular cases this honourable Member brings the collation in this interpellation the protocols have been activated. Which protocols were activated and when? And I would like you to move us where this honourable Member and the rest of the Members of this House can consult what protocol is used in that multi-room of mechanical containment in which people will be subjected, separated by curtains; a room that is, of course, for both sexes. Both in the Compostela psychiatric hospital and in the case of the Coruña unit have reported professionals who are insufficient staff. You deny the biggest, and the claims remain on the table. Will these claims be included in the mental health plan and suicide prevention plan? Will psychological care already be implemented in mental health care at primary level? Are you going to take some kind of measure to improve the mental health situation? Were they going to provide drugs prevention? Are you going to do something about severe mental disorders? Tell us, Counselor, if you're going to do something; it's probably useful for the motion we'll discuss in the next plenary. But I repeat, apart from the judicial proceedings, from complaints in another area, that I am concerned that you are alarmed that this Member wants to bring such a serious circumstance into this House and that you are trying to desist by moving that we use news from the press, because, frankly, his job is to come here and move what they are doing or what they are not doing precisely with mental health. You'll see, but I understand that finally in your hands it doesn't matter, because in your hands there's the health of the Galicians and the Greeks. It's your responsibility and we're going to continue to transfer interpellations and ask for the abandonment of mental health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u244	Mrs. Solla, there's one thing I can't consent to, which says my intervention is a joke. Of course, you don't know me well enough to say such barbarity. Here we're giving data, we're giving what's going on in Welsh health, and in this case in mental health, and, as I say, the change you've had in recent years has been fundamental. You probably don't know what psychiatry was like not many years ago; now it has absolutely nothing to do with it. And since you like to take pictures of Sergas hospitals in the background, I invite you to see, for example, Oza's unit, because I think it'll change your mind. That's why I hope to see the photograph. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as I told you, for us it's not a joke, it's a very important issue, and that's why we're involved in making changes, improving health, and specifically mental health, because, obviously, they're patients with a problem that was sometimes even socially stigmatized, and that we have to defend, of course, as first. On the subject of psychologists, who always talks about the few psychologists, I want to tell you that we are above the ratio of the European Union; in the European Union it is 2.7 and we have 3.3. And also tell him that you say that he was already in the previous legislation and that there were promises from the child youth in Vigo. I've been less time than you do, but of course, what's said is being fulfilled, and it's improved, and if you, who's from the Vigo area, know what Vigo area was like at the psychiatric level three years ago -- I don't tell you ten years, I tell you three years ago -- you'll see that the change was positive, transcendental. I think you have to recognize him, I know he won't have any clothes to say it is. Look, apart from the theme of the Suicide Plan, which, as I say, is about to end, we also have a big challenge, which is the Strategic Mental Health Plan 2017-2020. We're already working on it, and logically all the professionals will be involved, because we want it not only to affect the Health Council, but even the professionals of other administrations, and of course to have associations of patients and professionals. But we had a little problem. In the only interterritorial council there has been since I've been a counselor, attending something that I've been very concerned about, and it's that, after working on three professional years of all autonomys for getting a mental health plan for Spain, he was put down on that interterritorial council by governments in the coalition of the Socialist Party and Podemos. They were the ones who took the three-year job of the mental health professionals in Spain. Now we'd have a national plan, and we'd go next. We won't wait, because we can't wait for those governments who have no sensitivity to take the work of these magnificent professionals down the ground; I think Galicia won't wait and will continue to work, as I say, at that. We want the plan to be the result of the collaborative effort of a large group of health professionals, patients and other social agents involved. It aspires to be a document that structures professional performances and organizes resources efficiently. It will focus on specific groups of people and on problems, some of which will include the implementation of the father integrated care process into depression or the promotion of attention in the community of severe mental disorder, continuing to develop care continuity programs in home care, or enriching also two psychiatric rehabilitation programs or improving psychological care to groups with disabilities. The actions of the Plan will be aligned with those described in the Sergas 2020 strategy. It is important to highlight the provision of resources for attention to mental illness at extreme ages of life, taking into account childhood and psychogeriatric pathologies, so that each integrated management structure has specific resources. Recently, in the area of Vigo, an outpatient psychogeriatric care unit has been created, and the next step in this direction is the provision of Ferrol's EOXI from a mental health unit, of care that we do not currently have within the portfolio of services. We also want to incorporate mental health nursing. But, as I said earlier, we also want to incorporate into it the professionals who have been doing this work for so long. I want to tell you, as a summary, that the great transformation of mental health in Galicia will continue. And we're going to get even better, because in health the one who stays standing at a given time loses commitment to society. And we have made it clear that our commitment is the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u245	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with point 6 of questions to the Government. Question by D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of In Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in relation to the waste greening being carried out on the plot, protected by the Natura 2000 Network, of the emblematic granite set called "The Cone of the Bird", in the bay space of the beach of Lanzada, on the occasion of the execution of the works of improvement of the road PO-308
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u246	We begin with Mr. Marcos Cal's question from En Marea. Whenever you want, you can ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u247	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mrs. Ethel. The Galician Junta is running the works of improvement of the PO-308 road from the roundabout of access to the Salnés road to the place of Soutullo, in the emblematic area of the Lanzada; a section of 2.77 kilometers acquitted by a total of 2.4 million euros and co-financed by 80% with European funds, Feder funds. It's a track with huge road safety deficiencies, which has been waiting for years for some sustainable action in that area of such important environmental value. The neighborhood of the affected area put the alarm voice on the aggression being committed on the Natura Network with this work. They are dumping debris and removing dunes from the plot called "The Bird Con", which is protected, among other figures, by the Nature Network and that the concessionary company is using as a simple dump and parking space for the machinery. This plot, in addition to its environmental value, is also a place of great symbolic character. There the cone is found with the cormorant figure on top. The space we're talking about, in addition to the granite complex, is an area that needs the protection and recovery plans suitable for being an area protected by the Natura Network. They are using Feder funds, supposedly dedicated to sustainable mobility — pedestrian and cyclist rail — to build parking lots in a protected and sensitive area, in the bay of the Lanzada, contravening the legislation of the Natura Network and, as it has been frequent, promoting a cement model that does not respect natural stops or promotes sustainable transport. For the construction of these parking lots, the ecosystem of a natural haven was destroyed instead of being re-engineered, as previously planned projects that were discarded, and as required by the Environmental Council for an area protected by the Natura Network. And it also destroyed part of an emblematic granite set that should have been catalogued by its high artistic and cultural value. The neighborhood of the area, committed to the environmental values of the place, denounces that no environmental prevention and protection measures are being taken or even monitoring this area of special protection. You receive European grants for sustainable mobility and build parking lots and destroy areas protected by European subsidies as well. This is the management. Neighborhood also transfers that the works carried out do not correspond to those of the proposed project, even if they are returning land demanding that the money from the expropriations be returned. Neighbors and neighbors, in particular and through associations, are asking for information and asking for responsibilities without getting any answer. And for all this we have asked him the following question: what actions does the Government plan to take in relation to this plot protected by the Natura 2000 Network and the emblematic Cone granite set of birds?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u248	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u249	Thank you, President. Mr. Cal, first of all, of course no dunes are being removed, as you say, at all. And allow me some comment. You don't seem to want us to do the work, and therefore I don't think you're betting on sustainable mobility or bet on road safety or bet on the tourist promotion of an area that is really a city council with thousands of visitors in the summer season. The works we are doing in the improvement of the PO-308 road consists of a pedestrian and cyclist path between The Lanzada and Soutullo, collected in the Plan of Routes of Galicia that we pushed from Galicia, for sustainable mobility, for road safety and also for pedestrian movements. It's the first phase of a much more ambitious project that we're going to do in its entirety in this legislation. The first phase we're doing is the Portonova Launch; the second phase, Soutullo-Magor, we're going to start next April. And the concrete works I can explain: a wooden gateway on the side of the sea—of course, a respectful performance with the environment—; on the right margin, 2 kilometers of road; and also providing parking lots. So more than 3 kilometers and more than 3 million euros for an act that will be finished this summer. And therefore prepared for this summer season, for the summer, when Sanxenxo will receive thousands of tourists. Mr. Cal, for a short time, the work is public, and these works, in particular, are compatible with environmental and heritage respect. This is what the competent bodies do, because there are competent bodies in that matter. As you know, if not, I inform you, of course, that the Galaga Infrastructure Agency has transferred the project to the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, which has analyzed and authorized it. It is the competent body in heritage matters. The nature conservation service technicians, together with the surveillance staff and the infrastructure galga Agency technicians also inspected the area. It has been confirmed that it is within the public domain area of the road. They are isolated lands, after the construction of the PO-308 road, the local road that goes to Noalla, and therefore physically disconnected from the protected space. These are factors that have led all the competent organs to say that it is a strategic act, an important act, that will order this public space, natural space. It's therefore a positive action for the environment as well. Finally, we're talking about an action with the authorization of the Directorate-General for Heritage, with the authorization of the Directorate-General for Conservation of Nature, which is competent in environmental and heritage matters. Continued environmental and heritage follow-up. And so they stop creating unnecessary alarms and, of course, bet on making positive and touristic publicity for Sanxexo. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u250	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Cal's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u251	Of course, positive advertising for the tourist area is not to destroy environmentally protected areas. It's a lie that you're not attacking a protected area. I've been there, I've been on my feet and I've been looking at the protected plot, which says you're an isolated plot. It's not true, it's not an isolated plot, there's an area within the Natura Network that is being used to spill the debris from the work, and they're parking there the machinery. And they destroyed all the donor complex, which already needed to be recovered because the Environmental Council obviously wasn't doing its job. I needed to be recovered and now it's totally destroyed. This is how it is, I've been there 15 days ago. That's right, I don't know if you haven't been. I've been, so don't tell me you're not attacking an environmentally protected area because if you're attacking a protected area within the Natura 2000 network. That's the reality. You can't come here to say something that's not true and say it's not happening, because it's happening. I was there and I was with the landowners, who recognized that it was the area Nature Network, the landowners. So don't come here and say you're not attacking. Of course he's attacking a protected area. Tell me they're doing a work for sustainable mobility. I was there and I didn't see the bike lane or the pedestrian path. I've seen how they're parking, that's what I've seen. You're not doing a bike lane and a pedestrian zone. So I think you or I haven't visited the work or we're talking about totally different works. You're not being environmentally respectful because, as I tell you, you're attacking an area of special environmental value, an area of special interest to birds and also a natural habitat of a protected species, like the Lucernegaes. It is protected for various reasons. And there's a question that I would really like you to say -- why didn't you comment on it -- what changes have been made with regard to the initial work? Neighbors and neighbors are reporting that they are withdrawing expropriations on land and asking for money. They're demanding information and don't have it. So I would ask you to answer in your reply what changes have been made to the initial project. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u252	Thank you, Mr. Cal. The lady's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u253	Thank you, President. Of course I've been there in Sanxenxo visiting the works that are running; of course, they're not finished. And what it seems, of course, is that you don't really know the neighborly petitions or the requests of Sanxenxo's own mayor. That's what I don't think you know. In any case, I insist — because they say so — the reports of the corresponding bodies, environmental and heritage, that for this there are those bodies in the Galician Union — that are being done with regard to the environment, with respect to heritage and with the permanent controls of the competent bodies. I will stress to you that we are talking about an isolated plot of protected natural space, an area — specifically in that — where there are no dunes; Mr. Cal. There are no dunes in that Bird Con area. No dunes are being removed, as you say. In relation specifically to the Con do Bird, the Con do Cormorán, as you know, has no catalogue. And we are aware that it has a symbolic significance in Sanxenxo and that's why at no time, Mr. Cal — because it was not planned for the project either — is planned to withdraw the Cone from Cormorán. We meet the demands of neighbors and mayors, the works are always done. We have a difference with you that we have been in for a long time and we have experience in performing works. We look for solutions to execute the works. And, as we have repeatedly repeated — I repeat — here the action will not affect the Cone do Cormorán, nor will it affect the rocks close to the Cone do Cormorán. I said it, my manager said it, and I'll keep repeating it, so it won't affect you. During the execution, of course, requests were taken into account by the council. I don't think he likes us doing this work. And, of course, we're doing an action between Sanxexo and La Lanzada that involves a substantial improvement, a considerable improvement, in the area, not only environmentally but also in the area of road safety -- both environmental and road safety improvements. That's the main objective of this performance, apart from the bet on sustainable mobility and also to move safer and more comfortable all. And in addition, it also allows to better define this protected area and therefore avoid a chaotic situation in the summer months. So, of course, this performance improves the area environmentally. The forecasts are that the work between The Lanzada and Soutullo will end this summer, that the next month will begin the second third, from Soutullo to Magor, and the third, Magor-Portonovo, will be in works this same year. It is EUR 6.5 million in total to improve road safety, to improve walking and sustainable mobility, and with environmental positive effects — I insist, Mr Cal — and for the positive tourism promotion for Sanxexo. Of course, they bet on Sanxexo and don't look for a conflict where there is no conflict. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u254	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the technological adaptation process to be carried out by the Vigo Council for the incorporation of urban transport into the metropolitan transport plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u255	Question by Mrs Teresa Egerique Mosquera of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u256	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Thank you very much for coming today to answer this question about metropolitan transport in Vigo. See if we're able to put some light on this tunnel where we're stuck in this town by a capricious mayor who signed an agreement and doesn't comply with it. To get a contextualization, we remember that Galician metropolitan transport agreement in the southern area was signed with 12 municipalities in April 2016. Vigo stood outside by a personal decision also of Vigo's own mayor, but he decided to join in July, too, that same year when he saw that he had a lot of benefits for the Vigo metropolitan area. What happens is, of course, metropolitan transport is urban travel and urban travel. Therefore, all citizens of Vigo and the area cannot benefit from this bonus in urban transport because the mayor of Vigo does not comply with an agreement that has approved a series of tariffs. And it was also approved in this Parliament and so I also appeal a little bit to the responsibility of the political groups that approved the Metropolitan Area Law and who unanimously voted for the Metropolitan Area Law, with a clause in which transport was said to be essential for Vigo's metropolitan area to function. I also appeal to responsibility because metropolitan transport in the urban area of Vigo is not working. We're still paying the users of metropolitan transport 1.33 on the ticket when we had to pay 0.86. I have heard in this Parliament that the board invites and the council pays. And I have to say that the Board invites and the Board pays, and the Town Hall pays, and the Town Hall pays, and that of Mos, and the City Hall of Cangas and the Child... they all pay their percentages that are set out in the table of the convention. But the Vigo Town Hall neither pays nor accepts nor accepts the rules of the metropolitan transport game throughout Galicia, a transport of what citizens are benefiting from in the metropolitan area of Santiago, Lugo, Coruña, and soon of Ourense. And we in Vigo have to keep paying the highest rates of metropolitan transport that we consider to be second. I think I'll read the mayor of Vigo whatever you sign. I don't know if you can explain to us here too what are the procedures to be followed for urban metropolitan transport to be met, for tariffs to be met. Today we could see that a former socialist minister signed an agreement that will cost us almost, I don't know, a few million euros to all Spaniards for, perhaps, not knowing what he was signing. Maybe the mayor of Vigo has the same thing. Counsellor, we wanted to know a little about what stage he is in, because, besides, still above not to start urban metropolitan transport, he says he breaks with it. If he hasn't set it up yet, we don't know who he has to break with. We insist that there is a clause in the law on the metropolitan area, adopted in this Parliament by all groups, unanimously, in which it says that without full, urban, including metropolitan transport, we cannot carry out the Metropolitan Area of Vigo. It is a responsibility of this Parliament. We wanted to ask you, Counsellor, because this is a subject that sometimes also seems complicated, because it is more technical, if you have a record of the Council of Galicia of how the process of technological adaptation must be carried out by the Vigo Council for the effective incorporation of urban transport into the Metropolitan Transport Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u258	Thank you, President. From the Galician Junta we've been working hard to boost the Metropolitan Transport Plan in Galicia. It is the biggest bet made in Galicia by public transport, an initiative that is useful, which is benefiting thousands of Greeks and, of course, is a plan that does not stop growing. It's already five areas in which it's implanted, 65 municipalities attached and more municipalities requesting its accession. And the truth is that the Metropolitan Transport Plan already benefits 60% of the Galician population. Neither does it increase the number of users. It's 14 million tickets subsidized in Galicia, an increase of 9% compared to the previous year, 2.6 million trips in the Vigo area in 2016 and 40,000 neighbors who already have the metropolitan card in the Vigo area. And we also add advantages to the New People's card, that card that allows 19-year-olds who have their travels free of charge on the long-distance bus, so a promotion of public transport to educate our children, our youth, for the use of public transport. Today, they're only in the Vigo 3,000 Town Hall; therefore, Vigo is the county with more newly issued New People's cards. So we're talking about a social plan, a social transport plan that allows savings of up to 600 euros a year to a frequent user and that could reach up to 1,000 euros if the urban bus had joined the metropolitan transport plan. Therefore, the mayor of Vigo, with this refusal to incorporate urban transport, is preventing them from saving the beams EUR 400 per year for public transport and its long-distance movements. Therefore, the Metropolitan Transport Plan in Vigo is incomplete by the imposition of the mayor of Vigo. Therefore, the Metropolitan Transport Plan in Vigo is worse than that of Santiago and is worse than that of Coruña, although the mayor has signed the incorporation into the Metropolitan Transport Plan under the same conditions as the rest of the areas. After eight months, he wasn't able to make it effective, he couldn't carry out the technological adaptations. Last week, U.S. technicians confirmed that the collection devices are not complete, because, for example, they do not allow cancelling an undue charge and do not allow paying a multi-way either; therefore, they do not meet the requirements of the Metropolitan Transport Plan. Of course it seems to be totally lacking in the interest of the mayor of Vigo for incorporating the urban bus. It seems you don't want to encourage public transport, you don't seem to want to benefit Vigo's neighbours from having cheaper and more useful public transport; of course, you prefer confrontation, which is where you feel more comfortable, rather than bet on collaboration. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u259	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u260	Thank you very much, Counselor. We're already clear, so, who's got to do the homework. I'm going to give you an example, because here -- I insist -- there's a common denominator, there's something that doesn't work, because I, as Vigo's citizen -- I don't know if there will be any Morrazo deputies or any other metropolitan council, I've got a bonus from my long-distance ticket on that council. So I'm very grateful to the neighbors of those municipalities who, as a geek, welcome me part of that ticket and the Galician board also make the proportional part. The same thing should happen in Vigo. It doesn't happen because the mayor, despite signing an agreement and having to meet those conditions, doesn't meet it. And I wonder why he says he's breaking up with a metropolitan transport plan that he hasn't put in motion. With what he breaks, surely, will be with the agreement he signed. And he says he's going to make bilateral agreements with certain municipalities that support him. We don't know very well if you support him too to do those "spring wheels" that Mr. Leicega was talking about this morning and if you're going to support him for certain support in the party too, but that's not serious. In Vigo there are urban transport users who are benefiting from urban transport, but not urban transport itself. It's a measure that will affect the beams and the metropolitan citizens, not just the metropolitans. So, counselor, I don't know if you'll know what that demonstration consists of, those intentions of the mayor of Vigo to break with metropolitan transport, a metropolitan transport in which he, despite signing, doesn't come in; what these bilateral agreements he's talking about and what municipalities he's planning to do, because the metropolitan area has to be homogeneous in order to work. If we start with bilateral agreements with certain municipalities, you do not, according to the party of whatever it is, then there will be no area and there will be no responsibility, because — I insist — the Law of the Metropolitan Area, with the clause of transport...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u262	...included, voted here unanimously from all groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u263	Thank you. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u264	Thank you, President. For the truth is that we know through the media the intention of the mayor of Vigo to negotiate bilateral agreements with certain municipalities in the field of transport. That, of course, is to unilaterally break the agreement you have signed, but also the fact is that we have no official record, it has not been addressed to the Council of Galicia nor has it sent any writing. I always say that it would be administrations we don't give them entry logs either to teletypes or to press articles. Of course, in serious administrations, we have to deal with them officially and regularly. I think the mayor disagrees with what he himself has signed. I have here the agreement signed by the mayor of Vigo, with his signature. Clause 3(2): "With the formalization of this convention, Vigo's council integrates into the programmes in force in the Metropolitan Transport Plan, in the area of metropolitan transport of Vigo, into the conditions and terms set out in the framework agreement and into the concrete agreements and resolutions which develop it and which are known to the participating administrations in the plan." Therefore, clear, unique and uniform rules throughout Galicia. So either the Vigo Town Hall never wanted to join and it's a propaganda operation, a deception to the vicars, when it signed the convention, or either I didn't know what it was signing and now it's looking for an escape route not to comply with the signing; a escape route that, of course, is assuming money to the vicars, as I said in my first intervention. Finally, the urban bus does not enter the metropolitan transport plan and therefore a neighbor of the Porriño who wants to take the bus from Vigo - the urban or the urban - to go to the Porriño has to pay two tickets instead of one, if it was in the metropolitan transport plan, and therefore pay more. He doesn't keep the word he's given. In my opinion, it is irresponsibility, a lack of respect even for the neighbors, their own neighbors, who have to pay more for public transport. It's preventing them from saving 400 euros more. You don't believe in the metropolitan area. Of course, this is a bet for public transport on our part, and the bet that the Vigo Council is making is completely partisan, impropriety of a serious administration and, of course, of difficult realization - the proposal that the mayor of Vigo is making, I insist, through the media - because public transport, in our opinion, cannot be a privilege of political colors, it must be a right of all citizens, and of all citizens alike. For the sake of the neighbors, and of Vigo's neighbours, we continue to work for these technological adaptations. The mayor of Vigo — I insist — has not communicated to us the official performance, and we will continue to work for a first public transport in Vigo, for making more Vigo and for making a city in Vigo. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u265	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the planned date by the Government of Greece for the operation of the dry port of Monforte de Lemos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u266	Yes, good afternoon. In the morning we were playing a very important initiative for an entire region like The Limitia, and now, in the afternoon, it plays another very important initiative for another southern region of Lugo, namely the district of Lemos. We're going to talk about something, which is the dry port, and I'd like that what we're talking about from now on is to unlock, to get this initiative going, that we have to remember that it took life at the end of the last century, even though this already seems like a little bit of novel. And it's not much to remember that we're going to talk about an infrastructure, not only important for the city of Cabe, not only important for the capital of the Sacred River, but a fundamental infrastructure for the entire territory of Lemos and even for the south of the province of Lugo. And the initiative, which is quite simple, says something like this: The Land Management Guidelines cite Monforte de Lemos as the intermediate urban system of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, with four fundamental strategies, which, in the particular case of Monforte, cite the following: Monforte has a strategic enclave in the Galician railway network, especially as regards the transport of commodities. This leadership can be supported by the development of activities and functions linked to the dynamisation of the territorial assets of its surroundings. It is to provide a more attractive and better organized urban space to enhance Monforte's functionality as a logistics centre, services and production centre, the home of initiatives, dynamization and development, commercial and cultural space, and as an articulating element of a new nature tourist offer to the Sacred River in the mountainous areas close to the Courel and the Incio. Finally, what we were talking about before, a central place and a very important initiative for a broad territory. But the possibilities of Monforte do not end here, since the future road system of connecting Galicia to León, through the Ourense-Ponferrada highway and the diagonal highway of Galicia, as well as the modernization of the railway route, oriented primarily to the traffic of goods, make Monforte a place that in the future can obtain advantages of its situation with regard to the system of cities of Galicia and the Atlantic port system. We are talking about a geographical area of the province of Lugo, and as such it has to have an important role in public administration investments with competence in the areas of rail and road transport.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u267	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u268	For all of the above, Members who sign the question to the German Government are moved: when it is planned to launch the dry port of Monforte de Lemos, and in particular the link with National 120, which is the work that is in its wake and seems to be eighteen months for its recruitment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u269	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u270	Thank you, President. Mr. Quiroga, the dry port is already available for companies to be installed, it's ready; of course, urbanization is finished, and it's ready to take business initiatives that want to be installed. That's thanks to all the effort we've been making since this Council of Galicia, working decisively, pushing and engaging in this business polygon. The truth is they're not hollow words, they're made, they're investments; it's an important investor effort. We are talking about 20 million euros in the full economic crisis that made the Galician Union in the dry port of Monforte; 13 million to acquire the land, to realize urbanization, and something more than five million euros to connect the dry port to the autonomous road LU-933. In connection with National 120 we're working. We assume, we estimate, an investment of 4.2 million euros and we hope to be able to have the plot project this same summer, which will, of course, involve absorbing absolutely all the traffic that can generate this business area. And along with this investment, in the full economic crisis we also put bonuses, bonuses to the business ground and also new formulas to the surface right, which you know is a symbolic rent with the right to purchase; bonuses in the dry port reach up to 50% of the business soil, which allows you to acquire only EUR 25.50 per square meter. And the surface right implies that the dry port is at the disposal of business initiatives that are interested at 38 cents/square meter/year. So there are incentives to attract companies. The fact is that there is an interested company — with 40,000 square metres in particular — that plans to invest 20 million euros and create more than 100 jobs. We've got the downstream, we've got the 40,000 square meters, but the truth is we don't have municipal sanitation, we don't have the sanitation connection, which is municipal absolute competence, the responsibility of the municipality, and that's what you're certainly postponing this project. Ladies and gentlemen, investments made — EUR 20 million in the midst of the economic crisis — incentives to attract companies, clear bets of the commitment of the Galician Union to promote this dry port. And others, the Council of Monforte and the Parliament, you can tell me that you have made the same effort as the Council of Galicia in these years of economic crisis. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u271	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u272	Yes, and there would be a lot to replicate, but I don't intend this to be a "pim, pam, pom, fire," because here's what to pretend is to pull everyone's shoulder and pull forward. [[Applause]] You're not referring to the right things, but -- I repeat -- I don't want to argue vainly because it doesn't make any sense. The debugger is the only thing missing and, by the way, if they had forgotten about the sectoral plan, which is from Junta. It's the only one in the last works that's being auctioned. And it's said to start working in June. The works are scheduled to begin in April. For the 120 link, which is essential to start up that infrastructure, there is an 18-month deadline, or an eighteen-month deadline was given for the bidding. Then there's the environmental impact, then there's the sale of the work, and then there's the work. Look at the subject. Therefore, the dry port to this day is not ready. And because you're not ready, you don't have a logistics operator, which you at first didn't believe in. And it's a fundamental element, you can't put a manager, an official, whether or not, to a contractor, ultimately, in charge of a dry port, but a professional logistics operator and with the contacts necessary to get this project forward, which is of great magnitude and which, of course, put a mayor of the People's Party in place, but not now the Mayor of the Socialist Party escapes from this issue. You do not escape him now, even if there is a mayor of the Socialist Party, because it is — I repeat — an infrastructure called to be repulsive to the south of the province of Lugo. And, of course, I deny you the biggest: the dry port is not ready to be operational. The debugger, which you quoted, is the most advanced work of all. And we start with the 120 bond, which is eighteen months old...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u273	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u274	...term to contract the drafting of the project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u276	...take it short and do it much more quickly. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u277	Thank you. The lady's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u278	Thank you, President. Mr. Quiroga, I also bet that the Monforte Town Hall and the Lugo Parliamentary, of course I bet for that. I'd like you to be scratching your shoulder. And I'm going to insist that it's a priority, there's the data. In 2009, the dry port was paralyzed after it came with economic goodness. In the full economic crisis, EUR 13 million, urbanization is done, land is acquired, and connection to the vial with more than EUR 5 million. And it's done in the middle of an economic crisis. And we're still working — I'm going back to insist — with bonuses in the price of the ground, 50% discounts and the surface right — 38 cents/square meter/year — and therefore a bet for advantages to acquire business soil. Implication, interest, work and investment is what we are doing, despite the obstacles, the mismanagement and incompetence of the Town Hall by the theme of sanitation. Of course, sanitation is a problem in Monforte, municipal competition, and that's what's dilating this great business project in the dry port of Monforte. I believe that we are all aware of the disastrous municipal sanitation network of the municipality of Monforte, which has prevented the dry port from connecting to the municipal network. And Junta has come up with a solution to that municipal sanitation problem. It was to Junta who came up with a solution, came up with the project and support to fund it, because Monforte couldn't miss this opportunity. And despite being a municipal competition, we did the project, we collaborated to co-finance this debugger with 50%. The MP, of course — I know — did not want to collaborate at any time. And that was the speed of the Galician Union in the face of a municipal problem, which was sanitation. The truth is we delivered the project last year, in May of last year 2016. And it turns out he's still being helped -- and I've heard from the media recently -- a few weeks ago. The works didn't start. Therefore, ten months since we delivered the project to the Town Hall, the works of the debugger did not begin. And the fact is that even the Galician Council technicians helped the Monforte Council to make the technical report on the adjudication of works. And to find out by the media, of course, it's institutional disloyalty. So what I support and ask for is speed and loyalty on the part of the Monforte Council, and on the part of the Lugo Parliament. Because what has the Monforte Council done to promote the establishment of companies in the dry port? IBI discounts? I have no knowledge. Tax rebates? I have no knowledge. What did the Deputy of Lugo do to promote the development of the dry port of Monforte? I have no knowledge of any initiative. The easy thing is to criticize, to criticize others' work. The hard thing is to find solutions, the hard thing is, in full economic crisis, to make urbanization, to make access and incentives for business soil; facts that demonstrate the clear interest. And, of course, I insist: positive advertising for dry port, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u279	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the judicial judgment concerning the construction project of a high-voltage line between the localities of the Irxo and Lalin, and their affect on the fray of Old Houses, in the parish of Catasos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u280	Thank you, President. Counselor, welcome. Mr. Education Counsellor, welcome too, who is from Lalin. These are two photographs of the old house frigate. In the 19th century, Emilia Pardo Bazán was walking through these friars because he married José Quiroga Pérez de Deza, who was the heir to the palace of the place of Quintela, in Catasos. In the 19th century too, Emilia Pardo Bazán was staying in Catasós to write his book Los paços de Ulloa, and she herself said she was taking long walks through the fries of the parish. For in these forests it may be, counsellor, who replaces the trees with a high-voltage line -- it will be hard to imagine Emilia Pardo Bazán, wherever he is, if he is somewhere, walking under a high-voltage line -- because ten years ago Fenosa had worked out a project to build this line between the Irish and Lalin and, as a result, to destroy the strawberry of Old Houses by where Emilia Pardo Bazán was walking in the 19th century. This frigate is located near the frigate of Quiroga. It could be considered, one by one, a continuation of the same space. And the frigate of Quiroga is a natural monument. He has centenarian species, chestnuts, oaks, walnuts, even a soft pine, say the biggest of the place, which draws his attention because he's over two hundred years old and is too big. In total, 2,000 trees that would be destined to be razed in the 132 kilovolts electric race through strawberries and soots. The project started at EUR 10 million in 2007. It has been reduced — to cost Fenosa, of course —. In 2012 there are allegations of neighbors and appeal before the Council of Economics and Industry, with silence for reply. In the past legislative process, this parliamentary group called for a derogation from the Council's resolution, for the outline to be protected and for the line plot to be changed to be buried. We did nothing because both you and the Lalín Council, which at that time was governed by the People's Party — indeed, the Education Counsellor was also a concelerator of that council — defended the interests of the Fenosa electric rather than that of the neighbours. I use to greet one of the members of the Salvemos Catasós platform and the current mayor of the Lalín Town Hall, who is no longer governed by the People's Party, to thank them for their work, for their efforts, so that today the frigate of Old Houses is practically guaranteed. There is a ruling by the Supreme Court of Administrative Content No. 3 of Pontevedra, which is not yet firm, which dismisses Fenosa's demand for the Town Hall, which decided to refuse to grant a licence for a project which at that time had all the approvals, all the authorizations, of the Government of the United States. However, according to the judgment, it is in breach of autonomous environmental legislation. There are still pre-occupying records, and 500 plotholders...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u282	...—Finished, President—they have already seen their lands expropriated. We asked you, Counsellor, and your government, of this judgment of the Supreme Court of Pontevedra's Administrative Dispute No. 3 on non-compliance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u284	...of environmental legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u286	Thank you very much, President. How good it is, Mrs Vilán, to bring you photographs here to Parliament from one of the areas of our autonomous community which, in addition to its beauty, indeed has a natural heritage which is absolutely unquestionable, and it is not necessary for Emilia Pardo Bazán to go there. That's a reality of remaining known to everyone, and this totally contrasts with the fact that until just three months ago it had not begun by the Town Hall — of the present Town Hall, which has already been ruling for two years — the processing of a declaration by ENIL. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And as you well say in your intervention, this is an open judicial procedure between the Lalín Town Hall and a company, a private company. And, indeed, there is now a sentence which, as you say very well, is not firm, from which we are not part of the Council of Galicia, and you are asking me for an opinion on this judgment. Man, the truth is, from my point of view judgments are not opinable, they must simply be heard. And I could stay there, with this answer. In answer to your question might be this at the end of my intervention. Because you might also ask me about what seems to me to be the judgment that the general plan of management of the municipality of Vigo, for example. And, of course, as it cannot be otherwise, the Council of Galicia does what it does is to act and respond — as it cannot be otherwise — to the decisions of the judges. Now, since you ask me, and since you say so in your statement, the judgment does not say at any time that there is a failure to comply with environmental legislation. What's more, environmental authorization is still in force today, and it's neither suspended nor cancelled, or even questioned, by that judgment. Because what questions the sentence, unique and exclusively, is the municipal license of the project. So, I think that talking about non-compliance, so cheerfully, with an autonomous environmental regulation, is, from every point of view, missing the truth. And on the part of the Council of the project, of course, gave it the appropriate environmental treatment, which is at no time questioned by that judgment, at no time is the declaration of the environmental impact of this project. And in it, of course, all the conditions that were considered necessary and also all the sectoral reports that were needed were included. Considerations have been established regarding the protection and conservation of different emissions. So the processing of the Environmental Council has, I mean, totally adjusted to legality. And that's what this board did. This dossier contains a landscape impact report — made by the previous Director of the Institute for the Studies of the Territory. The other thing is that the judge or the judge makes an assessment of the content of that report. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u287	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Vilan's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u288	Thank you, President. Counselor, it's very difficult for us to see Emilia Pardo Bazán, because she's been dead for nearly two hundred years, but we can imagine her spirit by the strawberries of Old Houses. [[Laughter]] I was hoping, Counselor, that you hadn't made a similar comment here — because it sounded to us — that of Esperanza Aguirre when he spoke of "Sara Mago" thinking he was a person with names and names. [[Applause]] Well, Emilia Pardo Bazán is dead, but if she was alive, I'm sure she'd be sitting there claiming to her counselor that, please, she doesn't defend Fenosa and defend the natural space of the old house frigate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Above all, Counselor, because you were at that moment, the moment the procedure began... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u289	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u290	President, I ask for some respect. I don't laugh, and above all I ask... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u291	For everyone, for everyone, but I just asked for it. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u292	President, it's just that time is running out and I want to ask my question and my reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u293	Don't worry about it. Go ahead. He's pretty good at it, I think.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u294	At that time, Counselor, I don't know if you know, Mr. Román Rodríguez, let's say that he minimized the defense of the strawberry by the Platform Save Us Catasos because he expressly said that to you, to the People's Party in Lalin, this wouldn't happen to them. Well, indeed, so many bills happened to them that they lost the government in the county. Because the neighbors of Lalin are also concerned about the environment; you, not so much. It's said in the judgment that you're in breach of autonomous environmental regulations. It is not yet firm, and indeed, the declaration of environmental impact cannot be suspended or anything that has to do with autonomic regulations precisely because it is not yet firm. As long as it isn't, the judge can't make that decision. I ask you, what will happen to expropriations? And what will happen to the failure to comply with this environmental legislation? You don't consider that there are subjects of first and second division, because you see what happened to them, which bill happened to them in the Lalín Town Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u296	Mrs. Vilan, I ask you, at least, to speak with property. There's no environmental breach, and much less is questioned by that sentence, and if you want, I'll read exactly what the contents of that sentence that came to our hands. There isn't. And, by the way, ma'am, it's a coincidence that I live right in front of the house where Emilia Pardo Bazán was born, and I can swear to her that I know when she died and even when Mrs Emilia Pardo Bazán was born — that this is already for note — in Taberna Street, in case you want... in the city of Coruña. [[Laughter]] But, finally, speaking seriously, what we're obviously talking about from the council office and what we're working on from the council office is for the contribution of all the middle and, obviously, also, of everything that reaches the municipality of Lalin, and in particular of the fray of Old Houses. And I can assure you, Mrs. Vilán, that it is my first interest in that conservation, and of course, from the Council, we are dealing with that ENIL with all possible speed, which for just a few months has been presented by the Council and which is a figure that its protection is only unique and exclusively contemplated by the conservation plan, which, after being declared ENIL that zone, will be ratified. In short, now we're processing that ENIL, to this day. We hope that before the summer it will be a reality to its provisional approval, and it will not be final until the Town Hall presents its conservation plan, which is what will mark its conservation limits, and by the way, it takes some time. But, again, it's neither questioned nor there's any kind of non-compliance to this day that that judgment can call into question the declaration of environmental impact; it's still in force. That initial project was presented and had to be modified, as you well said, since 2007. Here, the Galician Union, in this council, or in any other company, is defending the interests of no other company, in the same way that the files presented to me and presented them to me in 2007 by the Government of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, exactly the same. In fact, several changes have been made that I have to tell you have been made at the request of the General Directorate - before - of the Conservation of Nature and of the General Directorate of Heritage and Culture; that is, changes to the project not for economic interest, as you said, but changes of character, in this case, of heritage competence of the nature and heritage of culture. So the Galician Council is neither expected nor expected in that judicial process, and the judgment, as you said it is not firm, does not affect — I repeat — environmental processing nor questions environmental processing, unique and exclusively if it is restricted to municipal jurisdiction, which is to grant or does not grant a licence. So, therefore, try to talk to a little more property, especially not to deceive the neighbors of Lalin, that that would be the most important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u297	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the face of the labour conflict in Pescanova to defend the rights and conditions of work worthy of the company
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u298	I'm curious, I'm telling you, because we always have to shut up on this side of the bench. It seems to me that disrespect comes from both sides, but attention calls always come to them. And now, if you hear me, good morning. As you know, Counsellor, ten months ago since the beginning of the mobilizations, negotiations to modify the collective agreement in New Pescanova in manufacturing and cold plants; negotiations that are marked by the company's attempt to renounce the current agreement as a negotiating framework and by the attempt to impose far worse labour and economic conditions. Some of the changes they intend to impose unilaterally are imposed by imposing the flexibility of the day with almost absolute availability from Monday to Sunday or by the implementation of a double salary scale, making new incorporations cover up to 40% less in some categories. This is a formula that has already been used and tested in other companies with a clear objective: they aim to create an ever-increasing wage and rights gap between the working class of the same company. Maybe they think if they try to divide, it'll be easier to win. And we have to say, moreover, that this conflict is, like many others, unfortunately, deeply intertwined with its political decisions. And I'm going to quite contradict the words of his previous intervention. Labour reform has not created jobs, labour reform has created more precariousness, labour reform has created more temporality and has created more inequality and has brought about the weakening of collective bargaining. In fact, the scenario we have today, where precariousness is the norm, is a direct consequence of the adoption of the last two labour reforms of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and we think, as we have already stated on many occasions, that it is necessary to derogate. But in the face of this reform, in the face of the attacks on our rights, we do not stand still, and the response to these and to the offensive of the management of the Pescanova company in its path of deepening precariousness is clear: the unity and solidarity of workers and workers. The entire template has seconded the strike on the plants in which the two days of unemployment were called. And even if they're trying to impose the report that the company's viability is being questioned, what is actually being questioned is the claim that the cost of the company's replantation falls on those of old. The Pescanova template is not responsible for the company's indebtedness to banking entities, which now design the closed door as a strategic plan to recover money at the expense of reduced labour costs, of course, not the cost of benefits, and the economic recovery of which you always presume in many of your declarations is consisting of all these years in retroceding rights, deestimating wages and making the consequences of the crisis shut down the social majority. Those are the effects of your work reforms. "Yes, look at me with a very strange face; now I will listen very carefully." For all this, the questions we ask you are: will you directly face the open labour conflict in Pescanova?, will you defend decent work rights in the company? And, in short, I ask them: which side are they going to be on this time?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u299	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, the first thing I have to move you is that the Government is fully aware of the relevance of Pescanova to the Welsh productive tissue, which you in your intervention at no time seem to want to reflect. We're talking about one of the main standards of the German business fabric; we're talking about an absolutely essential company, not only for our productive fabric, but also for our society, and we're talking about, Your Honor, 2,000 jobs and 400 million euros of sales in our community. So I think that somehow to the political groups in this kind of situation what we should be asked for is a bit of prudence, and you're already here not only judging a situation, because it's amazing not only how you're judging it but also how you're judging the government and this counselor; question, really, if you allow me, surprising. What I can tell you is which side you've been on, is and will always be this government, which is only on the side of employment, of quality employment, and, in the case of Pescanova, of workers, because I have to remind you -- because it seems like you haven't taken a background -- that the Galician Union has not spared any kind of effort in the search for solutions for Pescanova when Pescanova was in competition. And at that moment, what was on the workers' side, what was on the job side and what was on the side of a plan of viability for the productive tissue was precisely this government. So you should be a little more careful, because what I can already transfer to you is that this government will no longer spare any effort to precisely work not only for the maintenance of jobs but for that quality job, through dialogue, and not in the face of conflict, which seems to be what you want to promote. In any case, what I can tell you is that the Council of Galicia has already acted, and immediately if it is going to initiate mediation, which is in the frame in which you have to solve these kinds of situations to which you are referring. I believe that in this context the political groups must act with absolute caution and the Government, with responsibility. And what we have to ask, logically, the company and the workers, is that they both act with enough co-responsibility to secure workers' rights, but also Pescanova's competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. You have the word, for the reply, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u302	Of course Pescanova is a strategic company for the country. Three minutes, as you know, they don't give too much. Prudence. I'd say, how can you ask for caution, for example, to the workers who are currently negotiating an agreement that asks you to lower wages by 40%? Man, I don't know. And is it prudent when you're also demanding a company address that makes your work hours more flexible for you to work from Monday to Sunday? Of course, Junta has and has always played a key role in the future of New Pescanova. I also remember the efforts with Pescanova, the number of millions that invested the Galician Union to reflect the company. But we must also remember the sacrifices that all the workers and workers have made in this situation. They were also really many of those who helped save the company's situation. And to us that position of equity between one another doesn't satisfy us. There's a company that's having benefits. They don't use that excuse. Labour reform is being used to pre-empt work, to cut rights, to do temporary work, with only one objective: workers at a much lower cost; much greater benefits for the management of the company. That's the only target. That's why I ask them to take sides. For me to take sides is, of course, to defend the dignified conditions of work, which were already at this moment. Do you agree that the agreement is becoming regular under these conditions?, do you agree that the company imposes a 40% wage devaluation?, do you agree that the company is reintroducing the flexibility of work every day? Pescanova is no longer rescued, many millions have already been put for this company. So, now get on the side of the workers and the workers; unanimously — I think that you should remember — the entire staff is stopping. Doesn't that give them a slight idea? They're stopping when they're trying to divide them, saying the workers who are currently in this company are going to have the same working conditions. Those who come behind, people, that youth that they're so worried about, it's going to be the one who's got a 40% lower salary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u303	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u304	Well, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u305	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. Replica from the Government, the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, you can hardly be as demagogic as in your intervention this afternoon; few, frankly. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I didn't ask for caution from the workers, I asked for caution from you, and you, far from working on that path, work, as always, in demagogy and irresponsibility, from the point of view of a situation that is currently at the point of mediation. So what we are asked for from the political groups and from the Government itself is that responsibility, which you, unfortunately, do not want to move this afternoon, and what you want to do is make politics of a situation, which really the place where you have to solve is where you are right now, which is in mediation. So, I honestly believe that the road is already, logically, marked, because in situations like this, we have to work on defending workers' rights and we have to work on the competitiveness of the company itself, because, logically, the company has to give answers from the point of view of its needs, and logically, what we have to do is not divide, which seems to be what you've come to do to this House, what we have to do is actually help. Therefore, Your Honor, we as Unity of Galicia have already acted. By the way, it should be documented, because the Galician Union did not put a single euro in full in the situation of the Pescanova competition, not a single euro. So, that irresponsibility that you come to move here, I think I should take it back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, what I can tell you is that the Galician Union, in that competitive conflict, has acted as a catalyst for getting the funding needed for 2,000 workers today to have a future. So in that context, what the Government did was to be with the workers, and I can assure you that what the Government is going to do in this situation is to follow the workers' side of Pescanova, because that's our responsibility, and of course also next to Galicia, which you, unfortunately, don't want to be at any time when it comes to industrial policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u307	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Cesar Manuel Fernández Gil and five other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the data of early abandonment of studies in Galicia in 2016 by the population between 18 and 24 years before reaching post-war secondary education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u308	To put the question, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u309	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you all know, the concept of early abandonment, which has been used since the adoption of the reference point in 2003, refers to the percentage of population between 18 and 24 years of age that reaches at most the first-stage secondary education, compulsory secondary education, and does not continue to study or form with the aim of reaching the level that for the 21st century has been defined as desirable, which is the level of secondary secondary education of the second-stage or post-combrigatory. Recently, as you all know, early abandonment data were published in Galicia during 2016, according to which, the early abandonment rate in Galicia in the whole of that year experienced a new decline, and confirmed a good trend already started in past legislation, in previous exercises. The data on abandonment are in line with the good results achieved in international studies, as may be the case in the Pisa 2015 Report, where Galicia has achieved the best results in its history, located above the average of Spain and OECD in the three competencies assessed, both in reading competence and in mathematical competence and scientific competence. Similarly, Galicia has consolidated itself as the autonomous community with the most equitable educational system, both at the national and international levels. In this sense, we would like to know from the advisor's hand that valuation makes the government of the recently published data of early abandonment in Galicia in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u310	Thank you very much. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, early abandonment coincides with you that it is one of the main variables with which you can measure the quality and equity of an educational system and indeed, very recently we have known the latest data on the situation in Galicia in 2016. This fact tells us that early school dropout, school failure -- which is also known as well -- is located in Galicia at 15.2%. This data is almost 4 points below the Spanish average, which currently reaches around 19%. If we make a very brief comparison with other autonomous communities, we have to say that Galicia is the fifth autonomous community in this situation. The first two are the Basque Country and Cantabria, below 10%, and towards these autonomous communities we look. We're also very close to the next two, which are Navarre and Madrid, with 13.4% and 14.6%. By following the comparative analysis, we can say that school dropout in Galicia is almost 8 points below — 8 points better — than the average of Andalusia and that is also 3 points better than the average of Catalan. With this very brief comparative analysis, we concluded that the situation with this data is positive, because we are also very close to the 20-20 target which was set by the European Union for Galicia, which was 15% in this variable. Obviously, we understand how positive this reduction is. The reduction of school failure is one of the variables that indicates that there is a more equitable teaching, because there is nothing more antisocial than a significant percentage that our young people go out into the street without any type of titration, or with a weak training, because this undoubtedly leads them through difficult vital itineraries. Obviously, we're on a positive trend that's born in 2009. Prior to 2009 the dropout rates were increasing; in fact, in 2009 we were talking about almost 26% of school failure, and today we are about 15% and about ten percent of school failure. I mean, we were able to virtually reduce 10 points, which is a variable that has a very important value. In this reduction, they play external, conjunctural factors, too, linked to the general economic situation, but also internal factors. They're inevitable. It is also true that Galicia has reduced abandonment more than in other autonomous communities. They also play internal educational factors linked to internal programs that were launched in Galicia, such as the Education Support Programme, an attractive educational offer, the expansion of squares in vocational training... that is, a number of measures that were well received and that contributed to this reduction. Finally, Mr President, I think that Galicia must collectively be satisfied with this situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u312	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u313	This is due, on the one hand, to the efforts of the educational community, also to the programs implemented by the Administration and, ultimately, with this reduction, we have achieved a more socially fair education and above all, we have managed to get no one to stay behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u314	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u315	Thank you, President. Counselor, the truth is, firstly, I would like to thank you for your answer. I believe that on behalf of the group we must also show our satisfaction with the data that we have just commented on, and that they have just shown that since the German Government they are taking steps to improve the quality of Galicia's education system. Of course, these results are not the fruit of chance or the fruit of no miracle Blessed One, but they are the fruit of the work and effort of the entire educational community, as you well pointed out, because I believe it is fair to value the work of the entire educational community, but also the work, like no, of the Administration, which always has an important part within what is the improvement in the quality data of the educational system. Over the years and, as we all know, I have done a good job by the Council to improve the quality of teaching and to achieve figures like those just presented to us a moment ago. Obviously, and bearing in mind that this is not a casual matter, as I said before, but it is fruit of the work and fruit of the actions referred to -- as you already pointed out in your first intervention -- and initiated by the Council for the Improvement of the Educational Quality System, we would like to know which actions are, from the perspective of the Greek Government, those actions that you believe have played a key role in improving these early abandonment data. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the Government's reply, Mr. Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u317	Thank you very much. As I said in the first intervention, there are general conjunctural factors, for the Spanish ensemble, but there are also internal and own factors, essentially linked to the design of an own education model in Galicia, which made it possible to advance on this path of the progressive reduction of school dropout. And we would like to highlight basically two: on the one hand, the program contracts, and, among their objectives, a line of work in this field was the reduction in the dropout rate and the progressive reduction and improvement of the quality of education; and on the other hand, the very determined bet that has been made from the scope of the Galician Union by the integral improvement of vocational training, new modalities, new curricula, etc. I think it's worth a little reflection on this data. The program contracts were born in 2011, of course, with very strong questioning at that time by the political opposition, and yet they were very well received by the educational community. From 2011 until today, there has been a progressive increase in program contracts in educational centres. We're talking about practically 416 educational centers, we're talking about more than 100,000 students who are involved in program contracts and who, in some ways, reflect the autonomy and effort of educational centers to put in place quality improvement-oriented programs, on the one hand, and to reduce school failure, on the other. I insist, this was very much questioned at the time, but, in the end, time gives results and time puts into value these measures. And in the field of Vocational Training, we were also able to give you those fundamental variables to be able to prestigious these studies, we were able to increase the squares, from 34,000 in 2009 to 50,000 -- those of the few autonomous communities with more students of Vocational Training than of Bacharelato -- we implemented many sections, new curricula, Basic Vocational Training, Dual Vocational Training, and we were able to improve the qualification, employability, with 80% employability of graduates of Vocational Training. Finally, we were able to achieve a silent revolution in the field of Vocational Training and improve these studies. Obviously, this can't let us fall into self-comprehensibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u318	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u319	...on the contrary, what we must do is to continue working on this line, to persevere on this line, to achieve a maximum reduction in the dropout rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u320	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Ms Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the situation of primary care in the Valdeorras Sanitary Area
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u321	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u322	Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, since the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we have a fundamental concern about the health of our public health, a health that is weakened by a policy of constant cuts and abuse of public-private collaboration. We are concerned about health in general throughout the country, and for all users, but we must also put on the table in this attendance that the crisis and management of it have sunk into the crack of a two-speed Galicia, to our sight, and that the neighbours and neighbours of places like the interior of Ourense, like the municipalities and villages of the Valdeorras health area, which we bring here today, are the ones who are most drastically suffering all this policy of cuts that deteriorate our health, as I say, they become, as I say, second-guess, because of the lack of resources that are all insufficient to satisfy the characteristics of this population. A highly aged population, because I imagine you know, Counselor, which is the average of the Greek population over 64 years; an average that is 24% for the country, but that in some of the municipalities I come to talk to you about here today almost rubs 50%, like, for example, the Town Hall of the Ball, with 49.7%, or A Veiga, with 40%. This logically brings a difficulty in caring for these patients, because you will come here to talk about ratios, but the truth is, most of you, an important volume of pluripathological elderly patients, consumes much more resources than a minor patient with a tendency to have a higher rate of adequate health status. All of this is also added to the dispersal and the difficulties of communication. I'll give you an example. Between Bertamirans and Santiago de Compostela hospital 10 kilometers ago. It is exactly the same distance between the Vilarino de Conso Health Center and its CAP, its continuous point of attention, recommended, which is that of Viana do Bolo. However, there is a very important difference between the ease that can have a person to travel from place to place, not only by means of transport, but by a tremendously complicated orography and that in days like today you can already imagine how difficult it can be to go to her, especially for this age population. On this basis, in addition, we believe that primary care should be much stronger, and yet we see how it's not for anything like that. There are continuing shortages of staff in these health centres, which are deeply cut, as I say, many of the staff coverages are almost ordinaryly uncovered and structural problems of health centers are also emerging, both as regards their characteristics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u323	Finish, and ask the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u324	...—and finished, already—as to the supply of drugs, for example, drugs such as morphine, fundamental to dealing with heart failure. So they have a lower attention capacity for issues that can appear on an ordinary basis. So we asked him: what measures will the Galician Board and its Council take to correct the deficiencies in the Valdeorras Sanitary Area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u325	Thank you. You have the word, to answer, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I deny the greatest. There is no deficiency in the Valdeorras area, and I, as I say, will give data. You use adjectives, and I give data. It's the only thing we can introduce to say that it's not true what you're saying. Look, in the health area of the Valdeorras boat we count on a staff sufficient to respond to the assistance of its population, without being able to speak of deficiencies — as it has always repeatedly said — The health area of the Barco has the hospital and three primary care services: The Barco, Viana and Trives. Currently the number of people with card is 29.684. In the service of Viana there are a total of 3,185 cards and there are 4 optional cards, which results in a ratio of 796 cards per optional. In Trives service a total of 3,193 people, with a ratio of 798 per optional. And in the service of the Barco there are 26,305 and the primary care unit has 10 optionals, which gives a ratio of 1,300 per optional. And besides, we have the units of Larouco, Petín, Rubiá, Vilamartín de Valdeorras, Carballeda de Valdeorras and The Street, where they provide the 12 optional services, with an average of 760 TIS per optional. With regard to two special areas, which you also know, Veiga and O Bolo, have 2 optionals and 1,549 subscribed TIS, which leaves to 744 cards per optional. If we refer to the pediatric population, from 0 to 14 years old, it is 2,764, serving 3 pediatricians with an average of 921 TIS per pediatrician. Extra-hospital urgency is up to three CAPs: Viana, with an average daily care of 9.25 patients/optional/day; Trives, with an average of 9.5 patients/optional/day; and Barco, with an average of 22 patients/optional/day. You quoted Bertamirans. I don't know if Bertamirans will complain. Because the incidence of the number of cards per optional is quite higher; therefore, I don't think so. Regarding nursing staff, the number of professionals who pay regular attention is 23, with a ratio of 1,132 patients per nurse. All these ratios are inside, and in some cases very below, of the recommended margins, so these figures do nothing but corroborate the claim that the care needs are properly covered and that the resources are managed properly and efficiently. All of this without prejudice that needs are systematically analysed and needed corrections are being adopted. In fact, in 2017 we increased 2 optional CAP squares; one, at the boat Valdeorras, and another, at Viana. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u327	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the reply by the Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u328	Yes, I see you should never have driven from Vilarino de Conso with a sick relative to Viana to compare the obvious difficulty between distances and others. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, you want data and we can give you data, and specific data. In fact, it is good enough that my parliamentary group — who has also received a written reply on this health area of Valdeorras to specific questions, and who has answered inaccurate data — will also give you that data in writing, which we have no time limit in the written formulation. For example, you're talking about the third square in the Viana Health Center, but the truth is that this square has no continuous coverage. And when it doesn't have continuous coverage, then that stupidest TIS ratio is low and indemnifies, logically. And, for example, the Vilarino Health Center, the municipal infrastructure but which logically is the responsibility of the Galician Union to equip, continues to have a bathroom for men, women, patients and professionals. Or, for example, we can talk — which is something global and tangential to absolutely all health centers that are not located in the neural center of the boat — about pediatrics. Because there's a complaint about pediatric services in Viana, there's one in Trives, there's one in Manzaneda, etc. Is it so complicated to increase the hours of pediatrics for a population in which it is almost a miracle and a merit that increases in some county's birth? Or, for example, we can talk about how that adds up to the deficiencies in the hospital. Because I don't know if you know what blackboards are and the consequence of a massive increase in the population — between 40 and over 40 — of silicosis. Most patients affected by silicosis, as there is no specific respiratory unit in that hospital, end up going to Oviedo to treatments, and often by the private, to take care of their health. Or we can talk, for example, about the increase, in a context where the aging of the population is obvious, about the needs of a specifically aged population.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u329	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u330	So -- and I'm done with this -- what's going on? Socio-sanitary residences increase, but the poor planning of a health area, which is not even very clear where is Vilarino de Conso, whether it's in Verín or Valdeorras...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u331	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u332	...because, for one thing, it's for one thing; and for another, it's for another, because it doesn't properly respond to the needs of acute patients because they are oversaturated with these Jerichotic patients. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u333	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. He has the reply by the Government, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u334	Well, I can tell you that the Galician Union is not responsible for aging. Aging in part is a success of the system, because people live longer and Galicia is, with Spain, as a second world level; therefore, it is a success. And logically Galicia has many pediatricians, but it has to centralize them where there are more children. Logically because there are pediatricians, they don't. This is a health service that needs to care for the population. And, therefore, we are entirely with reality, giving us the service that people are asking us for. She certainly knows Bertamirans more than Vilarino, although today she uses it more than Bertamirans; but she certainly knows this area more than the other. [[Murmurs.]] What I want to tell you is that we're still investing in the area, we're investing, we're still investing in it. Investments within, for example, the Barco Health Centre, where we made an investment of EUR 440,000. And also at the elevator in the street Town Hall. As I said, there are municipalities that are responsible for buildings — and the street is one of them — but we signed an agreement to install an elevator there. Which, by the way, then the mayor says he didn't know he was outside. Man, they hired the elevator; so you should know. And I'll also tell you that in the Bolo, also in the health center, another 16,000 convention -- a new TAC in the hospital and a digitized radiology room. We're still working and we're going to work, because we understand that it's true that society is changing and we have a different society than it was many years ago. In these days we are precisely working with primary care, with professional schools, and also listening to patient associations about a more proactive, dump model that reaches older people, who often live isolated. And we need to use new technologies too to be more in touch, to give home care even better. And for that, we bet not only on the infrastructures but also on the idea of using more personal, and personal expertise within the family medicine. I'm talking, in particular, about nursing. We already have specialist nursing, and in the next OPE we're going to take concrete squares of family medicine specialists. And it has to do with it, because we don't abandon patients, and we believe that we have to increase services to a different population, especially in areas within Galicia, but also in the coastal population of Galicia, we started having this problem. We will continue to work for her even though your group — and some other group — uses health care simply to try to pick up votes. We're not, we're dealing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u335	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u336	...to improve the health service to the population and adapt us to their requirements, not to requests unjustified from their group. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u337	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luis Villares Naveira, from G.P. Parliamentary of En Marea, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the presentation in the Galician Parliament, during the current session, of a draft law amending Law 10/2013 of 27 November 2013 on the social inclusion of Galicia, which collects the meaning and interpretation of the judicial judgment referred to in the resolution of the Directorate-General for Social Policy concerning the granting of a single household integration income and what must be considered as a unit of coexistence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u338	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u339	Good afternoon, Counselor. From En Marea, of course, we did not look at another scenario which is not the immediate assumption by its government of the terms of the Vigo Continential-Administrative judgement against a resolution issued by its councillor, by the Council of Social Policy, in which it was informed the claimant that it had six months of time to set up an independent home and that, if not, it would withdraw the risk from it. This person who claimed to share his home with another person who was not part of the unit of cohabitation would benefit and who was also perceived by the Risk. The judgment finally acknowledges that he could still collect that income. Thus, we believe that the judgment comes to recognize Risk as subjective right that it is, although it is not clear enough in that Act of social inclusion. And he comes to question the Board's criterion of equalizing home and family unity, despite being aware that in many cases in the same housing they live for reasons of saving, for reasons of simple economic savings, several people in a situation of social exclusion without any relation of kinship or no bond by marriage. We therefore believe that this judgment — the judgment I am speaking of — is very clear in the sense of recognizing that a person who perceives the risk can continue to cover it by living with another person who perceives it. And I'm going to read it, because the saying emphasizes that article 11 of the Social Inclusion Act itself defines the concept of unity of coexistence as -- textually -- "the set of people who live in the same home and maintain with respect to the person requesting a link by marriage or similar stable relationship," by concluding the sentence that obliges them to compete with a specific personal relationship that in this case did not exist. So, what we ask is, simple and clearly, whether the Board is going to push in this session a bill that amends the Social Inclusion Act to ensure, to specify, that two people who perceive the Risk can live with and maintain the provision, and if so, eliminate those grey areas of the law. We asked, but it could go a lot further than changing this question. You could delete that general rule of home risk, whether or not people of the same family live together, and that the general rule was individual risk, taking into account what the sentence expresses. Because it's so hard. He says, "It would be unimaginable that two people who receive single personal and untransferable benefits in order to avoid their social exclusion had to be excluded from each other so as not to incur excessive inclusion." It's tremendous, we believe that there are other reasons why risk is actually an individual benefit. The social landscape will no longer describe it because it is well known. At least the numbers should be alarming us — even if only the numbers are the numbers. And one fact, simply, about Risk, which is the lowest in the state: if 13,848 people received it in 2015, there were 132,000 people in severe poverty in our country. And it seems to us that it is a moral misery that an administration forces a person to form an independent home when he has income of just 400 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u340	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u341	See how you're going to pay the rent and how you're going to be able to eat at the same time. So we asked him, simple and clearly: will he assume the sentence and amend the law so that people who live together can charge the risk?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u342	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the aim of the Galician Union is to reduce inequalities, with everyone's effort, and achieve the well-being of the Greeks and Greeks, especially those who are worse at it. The Galician Union is going to accentuate in this new legislation the commitment to people who have the most difficulties through several points. First, continue with the momentum of updating the measures contained in the Galician Social Agenda. Secondly, developing the Galician Social Inclusion Act. Thirdly, strengthening the work of Community social services and coordinating the efforts of different administrations. Fourthly, by expanding support programmes for families at risk of death and also guaranteeing the right to a decent housing. And fifthly, enhancing the role of socio-laboral inclusion teams. In order to fully achieve the objectives for which the law has been approved, it is necessary to develop regulatoryly several aspects that regulate this rule. Specifically, in the first year of legislation there is a commitment to draft the decree regulating aspects related to Galician social inclusion income and social inclusion aids. The decree will include the materialization of new measures in the Act of Inclusion, such as the implementation of new steps for inclusion and transition to employment, as well as new assumptions that will enable us to address more Greek people at risk of social exclusion. With regard to the question posed by the En Marea Group, article 11 of the Galician Social Inclusion Act provides that there is a general rule and that by that general rule a single income of social inclusion per household will be granted, understanding as such the physical housing framework of the unit of coexistence from which the person holds the benefit. Despite this legal requirement, and in addition to a general rule, it must be borne in mind that the Act of inclusion itself sets out exceptions and allows in certain cases a person's income, in reception and inclusion centres, in accommodation establishments, in facilities and centres or therapeutic communities, etc. At present, in the assumptions of living in the same home as the applicant or would benefit from other persons outside the unit of coexistence, the benefit is not being denied, but it has been established the criterion of granting it in those cases where the municipal social worker considers as one of the objectives of the social integration project in which risk is framed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u344	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u345	...to search for an independent home within six months. I'm done, Mr. President. I would like to point out to you that, of course, we will comply with the judgment, firstly; secondly, that this year we will develop the decree that will allow us to expand the beneficiaries of Galician social income.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u346	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word, to reply, Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u347	He told me about the decree. I hope you can be able to ensure that this decree is this year, we'll see it, but you didn't tell me that you intend to change the law; we believe that it would guarantee and deny social rights, and there are, in addition, more guaranteed standards, like this principle of individual risk. And he told me about exceptions; we know them; but they're not enough and they're not the norm. And I like to quote the theme of social workers, because it's the norm right now that there are different criteria in risk concessions according to the territorial bossage and that they are often given by administrative criteria, when, as you have just acknowledged, the exclusion conditions of a person are not measured only in numerical indices; there must be an overall assessment by trained people, by social workers and not by administrative staff. Personal situations — and we're talking about people — do not realize that reality that looks so beautiful that it will continue to push the Social Inclusion Act into these five points. Personal situations speak of bureaucratic procedures moving people away from systems and collapsing social services. Personal situations speak of the penalization of work. That decree I understand that it will regulate also be able to combine partial jobs with minimum income, because the current system does it is to translate into that decimononic idea that social exclusion is an individual fault when it's a collective responsibility; and I'm not talking about intelligence, I'm talking about specific issues. A person who for doing a job charges under certain circumstances 287,53 euros receives a letter telling him that from now on he will be discounted from his risk 23.95 euros/month. This not only hurts in the pocket, it hurts in the soul; that a person who has no resources remains almost 25 euros, in many cases, because having to choose, for example, when you buy, between milk or eggs. Incomprehensible denials: a person with cancer — I'm not talking about intelligence, I'm talking about real and concrete issues — which is left out of work, which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u348	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u349	...requests a Risga, who lives with his partner who has no legal connection, and who is denied because he is living in a home where there is income, but who lives there because he does not, because he would die. Anyway, why are you refusing the risks? Why don't you guarantee individual risk? I see they won't change the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u350	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. On behalf of the Government you have the reply of Mr. Counsellor, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Look, what I said about the sentence is that the sentence comes not to question the Law, but the sentence that comes to do is to give an interpretation in a particular case different from the interpretation that was being given at this time. Therefore, we believe that in order to include new cases and new perceptions of Galicia's social integration income — which I understand is its interest, the interest of its group, I believe that the interest of all Greeks — there is no need to modify the Act of inclusion; what is necessary is to develop a new decree, a new decree that allows us, in this new path of economic growth, in addition to the availability of public resources, to increase the beneficiaries in Galicia of Galicia's social integration income, as we did in 2016 and as we did in 2015. The latest data from the year 2015 — soon to be released from 2016 — has led us to an enlargement data of beneficiaries. So that's the path we have right now. We're getting more beneficiaries and allocating more economic resources to income. So it's not a normative problem, it's not a law issue. Specifically, in 2015 13,800 people would benefit from Galician social income, 14% more than the previous year. So, fundamental, of course, to develop it to contemplate people who at the moment may be deprived of the possibility of having that income — I say — not as a result of applying a rule, but as a separate project that is developed by social workers, which includes something that is sometimes a little contradiction, because it is true that there is a right to income, to a social income to people who most need it, but it is true that there is another fundamental right, which is the right to a decent housing. Therefore, it is said that in that income-related insertion project it is desirable for that person to have a decent housing. So we must continue to increase, of course, the beneficiaries of social income, but also the mechanisms to guarantee the right to a decent housing for all people. It's not about forcing people to live together, because income is low and it can't be done, but it's the two things that we have to work together: more people in social income, more supposed in social income, some of the assumptions that you've talked about in your question that we have to take into account, and also guaranteeing the right to that housing. That's why it's also very important to develop Galicia's unique social agenda, with measures especially in the seven major cities, which allow us to manage Galicia's board and municipal administration, among all, to get easier access...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u352	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u353	...to live for the people who are in the worst economic situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-22-DSPG022.u354	Thank you very much, Counselor. Well, at the end of the agenda, we raised the session.
