ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. They justified the absence of Mrs. Guadalupe Murillo and Mrs. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, who will not be able to attend during the morning hours of the plenary. And, no more, we're on the agenda. Let's start with legislative texts. Discussion of the consideration of the G.P. Bill Proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to present before the Congress of Deputies, for which the model of financing of Galicia is approved
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u2	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u3	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From the Galego Nationalist Block today we propose to all the political forces in the country a great deal of agreement, a great agreement that enables us to overcome an unfair, centralist financing model, and move towards a new model, the economic concert, which would allow us to have a fair and adapted taxation to the reality of Greece, which would provide us with more resources to improve people's quality of life and promote Galicia's progress and modernization. And this is a necessary and timely proposal. It would be necessary, because the current system is a bad business for Galicia; we are paying more taxes than we receive. And it is timely, because right now, when the debate on a new model is being opened, we need to put in place substantive reforms that give us more tools to make our country progress and not to be reduced to patches of a centralist model or simply to stay watching others move, and Galicia, as always, losing opportunities for the inability of the Greek Government to lead a project that defends our country. So this proposal implies changing the inefficient and unfair model of current funding from the root, and I understand that this is a proposal that puts nervous people who want to keep intact the 78 regime and the current status quo. Because, in fact, it's about changing the model of centralism by a new model that trusts Galicia's potentials and that bets on self-responsibility for our future. If you allow me, by expressing it in a graphic way, what we're proposing with this proposal for an economic concert would mean taking the key from Galician money to Mr. Montoro and returning that key to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, are convinced that the problem is not that the Greek society does not generate enough resources to maintain the public services we enjoy, the problem is that there is an unequal distribution and an absolutely regressive and unfair taxation in the Spanish state. [[Applause]] The result of the current model is an absolutely irrational result, since we see how the State, which has powers that are not priority for most citizens — such as the Army, the state bureaucracy, the Royal House or the general infrastructure — that never reaches Galicia, controls fiscal policy. And since the BNG, what we've been defending is to turn this situation around and connect fiscal competition to tax revenue and tax policy through a Galician estate, with which social policies are exercised. So what we propose through this proposal for a concert is that we overcome a situation where our taxes are controlled by Madrid, because this situation really serves only to ensure that from the Madrid economic elites the policies that interest Brussels and precisely those economic and political elites located in the capital are assured. We are already seeing the consequences of this model, and we have seen it clearly during these years of the crisis. While there are cuts in health, more than 40,000 million euros are allocated to the bank; while the prices of the Greeks and the Greeks go up here, we see the rescue of the Madrid radials; while the education cuts are applied, that is, if you play with the most important, that is the future of our children and our children, we see how the military spending increases in more than 7 billion euros; while the state investments in Galicia are cut, we see that there is a rain of millions to other territories, that they exercise with decision-making capacity and that they are conditioning state policy. So what we are defending today is a proposal that he trusts in Galicia, because we are convinced that the problem is not that we pay enough taxes to maintain our health care, our education or essential public services, but that the problem is that we are faced with a distribution of competences and absolutely irrational spending. So the economic concert is a proposal that only benefits Galicia and that actually responds to a different logic than the current financing system. This is a proposal that fits into the position of all those who have taken care of studying this subject with the will of Galicia to exist politically, that is, from an optical Welsh point of view. So, we see how from Alfredo Brañas to the Brotherhood of Speech and the Galician Party itself, with Alexandre Boveda in the head, defended the concert as the best model of financing a worthy Galician. Therefore, the alternative of the concert is in the tradition of Greek economic thought. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to have autonomy, true self-government with financial capacity, there is no other position than that of the concert, because it is the only one that allows us to collect all the taxes that are generated in Galicia, which covers them by the Government of Greece, enabling the necessary financial resources to cover the costs of health, education and social protection and to promote the economic, social and cultural development that our country needs, without preconditions or severe restrictions. The concert, therefore, is the minimum alternative for nations or peoples who have a political will to seal it. The concert is an alternative that ensures that all revenue from the tax burden suffered by the Greeks is managed by the Galician Board, then agreeing to a quantity or is enough to pay the State for the functions it performs in our country. In this way, the concert is based on its own capacity, responsibility and equality, in the face of a model of centralism and in the face of that idea, which defends with such momentum the state forces, Galicia's inability and that necessary protection of the State, because, if not, we do not seem to generate as a society sufficient resources to maintain the central elements of the welfare state and to be able to develop our country. From the Block we are very clear that the current system and any of the changes in its variables are in line to maintain the idea that Galicia lives on the solidarity of the State, instead of checking that we live on our own effort, being the State a financial product of which we support it. Only, therefore, from a colonial mentality can you say that with the Galicia concert you would lose. And I think it's very serious that the state political forces are still sitting on that idea, because it's causing great damage to our country and because, in addition, they're trying to tell us that the fiction that creates this financing system is the reality of Galicia's economic capacity. State parties always, and I suppose — I'd rather be surprised, don't they? — that today they'll do it again, this idea: the tax capacity that Galicia has is unique and exclusively to which it defines the financing system that means the part of taxes that are handed over to our country and they don't contemplate the whole, i.e., all the taxes that we pay well to the physical persons or to the economic activity of our business fabric. I mean, you want to draw a half-galiza and not see the whole thing we generate as a country. However, if we analyze the whole, the data is very different from the one presenting that fiction to us, that story that you're telling the Greeks and the Greeks. If we pick up the 2014 data, we'll check how the minimum real tax burden that the Greeks and the Greeks have borne has exceeded 11 billion euros, while the state's approach to the current financing system has reached 7.043 million euros. I also believe that it is interesting that we see that the current financing system does not guarantee the supply or financing of the public services that we have transferred. If we take data from the funding system, we see how the State has delivered EUR 5,108 million to the Union to maintain fundamental public services, that is, health, education and social protection. However, what destined for those games to the Galician Union in that year was 6,217 million euros, with cuts included. In other words, we have a reality in which this supposed solidarity and financial adequacy of which we are told does not remain in the current system. And I, of course, think it's an irresponsibility that they have to maintain this situation and maintain this fiction. Well, if we take the real figures, what we see is like among the 7 billion euros that we receive the Board for funding and the more than 11,000 that we actually support the Greeks and the Greeks for taxes, there are 4,088 million euros for difference. That's right: Galliza would have to bring the state closer to him because of those powers that the state has. And if we take the data you are currently using Euskadi to calculate the coupon — which I imagine the People's Party is worth to Euskadi — we see the contribution we would have to make is about 630 million euros. So there's more than 3,400, almost 3,500 million euros, of difference between the concert system and the current system. And these resources would be very important to improve the quality of life of our people and, of course, to develop an economic, social and environmental policy that is far from what we currently have. It is therefore clear that the current financing model is insufficient and unfair. And also Mr. Núñez Feijóo should humbly recognize at some point that his contribution to the financing system in our country the only thing he has achieved is that we have an ever-increasing system, because insufficiency is getting bigger, and, even if they don't want to recognize it, you know that. In 1999, the weight that Galicia had in the financing system was 7.59 per cent; in 2007 this was 6.93 per cent; in 2009, 6.78 per cent; in 2014, 6.73 per cent. What does that mean? That we have been constantly losing weight in what Galicia means within the financing system, and therefore these are resources that our country has no longer received and that, as we see, it would need to be able to finance the skills it has allocated in the current framework. And the serious thing is, in view of this situation, is that we see a German Government that, as always, does not want to change anything, that everything that comes from Madrid seems good to you and therefore denies that Galicia has a position that defends our interests and allows us to move forward. And, of course, for us, this looks like an unacceptable starting point. I, as I know this is a subject on which I will soon be disqualified — because it is the general tone that often appears — before I do so I would like to quote a person who I think has at least a certain political authority for at least one part of this Chamber — I don't know if it's another type. Look, it's a literal date, not too long. Say, "On the theme of the concert, look you, a Galician nationalist will want you an economic concert for Galicia, and, if you hear how you calculate it, there would be a very interesting debate there, because the Galician nationalist... — I put here a parenthesis, we seem like a strange species— because the Galician nationalist is absolutely convinced that we have an underfunding and that Galician resources are surpluses and would have exceeded. It is also based on mechanisms similar to other autonomous communities. But I do not know, except for a couple of autonomous communities, that they do not say that it is Madrid, that it does not give me what I belong to. So I don't say you're right about the demand, because it's true that Euskadi has it, Navarre has it, this is absolutely true. It is also true that the constitutional discussion reached agreement that Catalonia did not have a concert. Now, it is true that these things can be changed, raised and discussed, can they not? The problem is how we agree on the contents of the concert, which is what is measured and what is not measured, what is thought and what is not thought." These words are from the absent president of the Galician Union, pronounced a year ago precisely in Catalonia before the question of a person who was in that Circle of Economics, in relation to which was his position on the economic concert. And I think it's an interesting reflection that Alberto Núñez Feijóo makes us from Catalonia. First of all, because what he tells us is that there is debate, that there is debate, and that what he hasn't done 40 years ago cannot be an obstacle for us to do something different today. I believe, moreover, that if since the People's Party in Catalonia defends that the debate we are discussing is of great interest, we must take this initiative into consideration so that we can open a serious debate on the financing model and that Galicia has a strong position and a position that defends our interest and not the interest of the state forces or the state economic elites, and that we must therefore open an opportunity, a door to change things. But there is something that seems to me to be more transcendent, which is why the president of the board accepts the concert for Euskadi and Navarre, believes that the concert would be a reasonable option for Catalonia and yet denies that same position for Galicia. Look, I don't see the People's Party or the Socialist Party saying in Euskadi and Navarre that they want to suppress the concert. And they don't because they know it was a fundamental element...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u5	...in the economic development of these territories. And the question we have to ask ourselves is why you don't want that to be the element that also strengthens our country's self-government and provides us with the best tools for our better people to live in Galicia. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can change that immobility and that we can leave here today with a great deal of country agreement that opens up a different, ambitious and confident position in Galicia in terms of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u7	Mr. President, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already told you that our group is going to stand against taking this bill into consideration, because we consider it to be politically inappropriate, unwisely legally and unwise from the economic and financial point of view. Politically unwise because we are in a debate process on the reform of the system of self-financing, and this position is weakening Galicia by using arguments that are very clear, very clearly reinforced, to those who want to reduce the level of solidarity in Spain because they privilege the financial autonomy of communities over any other criterion, as may be the criterion of fairness and adequacy. That reinforces those who are fighting against us for the criteria of distribution of resources within the system of autonomous financing. He's drawing attention to the essentials. And what is essential in the case of Galicia is the coverage of the spending needs we have in a community that -- finally, I feel that the data goes in a direction other than their opinions -- is not able to finance the resources that generates all the competences it has, as well as contribute to the proper support of the State's burdens. He's drawing attention to the essentials. And then, finally, in the confusing waters of the Catalan debate, to introduce this subject complicated and confusing. Because, deep down, you're putting a confederal model behind you as a substitute for the federal model we have today. And it seems completely legitimate to me to defend that position, but it can't be done by the back door, but, frankly, in front. It's reckless from the legal point of view. You were wondering why the Basque Country and Navarre could enjoy the concert. Because there's a forecast in the 78th Spanish Constitution, I remember that in the first transitional provision it refers to the continuity of the regime especially for these communities. That I remember, in the 78th Constitution, there is no similar prediction of Galicia. So we have a legal difficulty also to put in place what you propose. We have a legal difficulty in complying with Article 133 of the Constitution, which is a basic article because it defends solidarity between territories and requires equal treatment for citizens throughout the Spanish territory. And this would not happen if we applied their economic concert formula and generalized it to the whole community. Because this means that everyone would have the funding they could generate. So for those with more fiscal capacity, more funding, and for those with less fiscal capacity, less funding, breaking that criterion of equal treatment for Spaniards across the territory. Which means that, in fact, if we adopted this bill and the Congress of Deputies then approved it too, we would be reforming the Galician Autonomy Statute of the year 81. And I think that we must reform, I think we must reform, but we must do so in accordance with the procedures that are established, discussing the whole, discussing therefore competences and funding, and not doing so — I say — by the back door. And finally, but not less importantly, I think it's a proposal that from an economic and financial point of view is unwise for Galicia. They apply a principle I share, which is the principle of financial autonomy. It is a principle that I share, which I believe is insufficiently considered in the current system of self-financing, and we should have the ability, through this reform, to expand the financial autonomy of the whole of the communities, not only of Galicia. In the expert committee itself, for example, a system is introduced so that communities can decide on the types of VAT collectively, so that, at the same time as they have more financial autonomy, they do not break the market unit or create problems when moving goods on the territory. These are reasonable proposals, but that's not what you propose. You propose the principle of financial autonomy as the only principle, the only principle, and also unilateral. It means that if we generalized the concert system, we would have a very important farm, which is the central administration's farm, which would lack any resources. And if the principle of financial autonomy is a valid principle, it is also a valid principle for the central farm. And we should provide this with the resources needed to carry out its tasks, which are some minor tasks, or which seem to be of little importance, such as defence, but others as important as justice or infrastructure. So we have to be consistent. And you're not at this point. But it's, above all, a one-dimensional application. Where, in your proposal, is the principle of equity? Where is he? Breaking fairness, which is the application of the principle of solidarity between people or between territories, breaking fairness, may be an option for the strongest, but for those who are weaker in economic terms that is not an option, it is an economic suicide. So it can't be. And I am surprised that, from progressive political positions, we have forgotten the application of this very relevant principle. But, of course, when reading the explanatory statement of his bill I see that they have an absolutely conservative, individualist vision to the end, in what taxation is. They're talking about the application of the cost-benefit principle for individuals in relation to taxation. This, at last, reminds me of the "tax waste" of a Nobel Prize, which I think makes a lot of contributions from an extremely individualistic perspective, as is James Buchanan. But I didn't expect to find it in the BNG documents. At the same time, the financial effects of this proposal must be calculated. These days are published the fiscal balances corresponding to 2014, a very high-quality technical work, a very interesting technical work, very well done, by highly recognized professionals, which in Spain cannot be considered sensibly about its results. For the public action set in Galicia — not just for the autonomous administration, I want to need it — for the public action set in Galicia, indicates that there is an imbalance between revenue and expenditure, which is EUR 3,692 million for 2014, EUR 3,692 million more in public spending than in revenue. Public expenditure for Galicia doesn't mean just public expenditure in the territory, because that also includes, without a doubt, the contribution to State charges and also the social security system. So we can't compare it with its figures. But in a very light but approximate calculation of what it would mean in terms of declining autonomic financing and local funding — which is included in its proposal — its system indicates that we would be over EUR 1 billion, around EUR 1.2 billion, less funding for Galicia. This would be the result of your proposal unless we stopped contributing to the state's expenses, but we would have to do it here because they are necessary functions; or that we stopped paying the public debt. But we would have to do it because it's also part of our duties. One billion euros less means many less public services, which means that we would have much less capacity to meet our spending needs. I understand your proposal is sacrificing public services and general interests purely in pursuit of an ideological goal. And then you call my attention, finally, to some specific question of your proposal, which I think you have a lot of interest. There is a section dedicated to local taxation which is included in this. Well, I think local taxation must also relate more to autonomous competences. You can move in that direction. But if you read the text of what they propose, they say that the definition of local taxes is a competence of the Galician Union, not of the Galician Parliament, not, not of the Galician Union. In fact, it is a proposal, I suppose, well thought-out, well thought-out and, finally, the fact is that, thinking that taxation must cease to be a competition for Parliament — when parliaments in Europe are born just to deal with budgets, taxation — to become a competition for the Executive, I think it deserves an interesting reflection. For all these reasons, I say, political inopportunity, legal difficulties and economic consequences, our group is going to stand against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u8	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u9	Good morning, gentlemen. As a previous consideration, the political project of En Marea, with which En Marea is born and is presented to the whole of Galician society, was from the very first moment a German national project based on democracy and social justice, and this means, in the articulation in this case of the economic discourse on financing, the recognition of a particular context: the context of plurinationality; therefore the context of recognition as a basic principle to articulate the discourse on the financing of fiscal sovereignty, and, around it, the development of a series of consequences that we will discuss below. I mean with this, in relation to the subject's exposure, two things. First of all, starting from that axis of fiscal sovereignty, being part of the trunk axis formulated by the BNG, we will vote favourably for consideration, although we later draw our own consequences, given the way of designing the articulation of that national project in the Spanish state as a whole, and which will therefore give way to what I explain these particular circumstances. Nor is it surprising that at this time of year, with the debate already very advanced in political and even economic terms, even today we do not know what the People's Party's proposal for self-financing is. Because it was not — as we said here several months ago from the rostrum — independent experts, but policies that made it possible for the experts to develop a concrete link in that political position, a position that we are still ignoring today, with which we assume that it is nothing more and nothing less than a statu quo defender that we believe it is necessary to change. Therefore, the approach to which I will now refer is a sovereign and confederal approach to designing the autonomic funding that must answer three questions: what, what and how. That first, in articulating a fair and equitable system of autonomous financing for our country, implies, firstly, fiscal sovereignty, as a consequence of the Greek national character, something which was already recognized in the 1978 Constitution — at that time as a historical nationality — and which therefore does not entail any kind of constitutional affront, although, of course, the original power to establish taxes established in the Constitution would give rise to a possible articulation of full normative capacity in matters of taxation through Article 150. For us it is also a matter of co-responsibility, or rather, as I say it fully, of responsibility. It is an imperfect system that foresees a political power that has the ability to collect taxes and that then confers on another power a limited capacity to spend attributing powers. It is not acceptable to have a competitive duty on the part of the Galician board to meet fundamental rights and social rights, but then not to provide resources to do so. And awed by this, as it corresponds to a democracy, the principle of electoral control must, of course, be sealed. It's necessary to refer or not politically to whom you're making not only spending decisions, but also income decisions, and you have to be responsible for one or the other. That is to say, we must require those who have the competence to establish public spending policies, because they have assigned competences, also the tax capacity, among other things, so that citizens can decide on the existence of a correspondence between that income and that expenditure and the type of fiscal and policy policies in general that they want to be established in this regard. Therefore, since it is not acceptable — we understand — a regime of uncontrolled powers over resources, we also understand that, from this point of view, fiscal sovereignty is a solution to this problem. Thirdly, and related to this, control over income is not just containment over expenditure, which is what we've seen in recent years. This is a sovereign exercise of a fiscal policy also related to the policies deriving from the material competition itself which establishes the Statute of Self-Government. We want to activate a social justice mechanism that is produced when income and wealth are redistributed, and the redistribution of income and wealth is produced not only by exercising material competition over what the Statute of autonomy establishes, but also by collecting through the tax route the wealth of those who have it in order to be able to redistribute it according to the principles of solidarity. Sovereignty, therefore, to make social policy; sovereignty to make fiscal policy; fiscal policy of a social character and redistribution of income. And in view of this, we have faced up to this moment with tax and insolidary neoliberalism, which is now installed in the state as a whole and also in the Government of the Union, where the collection - and we have just known the data of the last few years - is at the expense of indirect taxes, while lowering the collection at the expense of the direct ones, particularly in the business benefits, which we consider totally unacceptable. The second part of this exhibition would be what. We understand that the answer to the idea of resource adequacy. We have the right to meet the fundamental rights and social rights that have been entrusted to us in this old Statute of autonomy that it would be necessary to improve and overcome, establishing and recognising new social rights and new fundamental rights that are now not properly addressed by the policies of our country, and that would therefore underpin the need to calculate what expenditure needs are also based on the satisfaction of the social rights of the whole of citizenship. That's why we want autonomy, to make social politics, to be able to redistribute income and wealth, so that everyone can live better. And also, why not, we have said it many times, with the desire to expand and improve public freedoms and fundamental social rights, for which economic resources are also needed. Finally, to materially satisfy the content of autonomy, the autonomy which is political, non-administrative. We're not just managers like a council, with a series of resources and skills. We have political capacity, and political capacity means not only spending, but deciding in what way it is done and how social solidarity is exercised in this civil body that constitutes the whole of Greek citizenship. We do not comply with a system that today foresees that the resource adequacy should only be made in the light of the fixed photograph that our society offers; we do not comply with the idea of a shrinking Galicia, in which to meet a dispersed and aging population. We're sick of that speech. We want political autonomy to serve once and for all to reverse social situations that are not desirable for our country. We don't want a tiny country, we want a country that has opportunities for the future. We don't want unemployment, we don't want immigration, we don't want depopulation, we don't want disarticulation from the country, and that's why we need an alternative fiscal policy, so we need sufficient resources. In these terms we want to devise the debate on self-financing, and we want all this to serve to ultimately change our country from a social point of view, making social policies. Where does the money come from? We were told here several months ago by the President of the Board himself that the new funding system should serve to share what is going on. We don't agree with that, there are more resources than those that are put on the table for the new system of self-financing. The current funding system that is intended to be reformed puts on the table no more resources than those that have so far become autonomous communities, and we think that should not be the case. The State has the capacity, and it is reaping a number of powers it exercises and others it does not exercise, but it is reaping the same, without there being a correlation between the money it collects and the competences it exercises, and all this must therefore be opened, there must be more money to adequately finance autonomous communities and to finance in this case, in particular, our country in relation to the resources it needs to meet the social needs of its majority. This is not being done, and the People's Party has no desire to do so. That's why we reject any model of maintenance of the status quo, because we want to ensure a well-being that is not now secure, because there is no correlation between the powers assumed by the State and its financing system. And the third point would be how: how to make this financing system. We believe that the two above principles must come together with the principle of cooperation. A system of multilaterality since equality, the full recognition of the fiscal capacity of each of the elements that form a sovereign part of the Spanish State, and hence from there on a full equality, to negotiate a fair and equitable model that will enable us to meet the social needs of our country. Cooperation and cooperation to guarantee income soil. We said, and as part of our economic discourse, that we don't have a expenditure ceiling problem, we have an income soil problem. We have to guarantee this, and for that are the institutions, to ensure the sufficient resources to meet social demands. People have the right to live with dignity, and it is the obligation of the public authorities to guarantee the material conditions to live with dignity, and also to develop economically and culturally, in a prosperous manner, the whole country, and that must do it cooperatively, to ensure that the redistribution of income and wealth is produced by ensuring a minimum of income. That minimum income is produced by co-operating in that large courtyard of apple, which is currently the Spanish State, in that large house which is currently the European space. State context, therefore, and European cooperation context. We reject tax dumping, we refuse to defiscalize capital incomes, we refuse to defiscalise business profits. We believe that wealth must be sought wherever it exists, and we must avoid all means of circumvention and tax evasion, which is of great interest to the People's Party, which after this great Spanish patriotism based on the indissoluble unity of the nation, which also leads them not to understand the principle of fiscal sovereignty and cooperation, they use Switzerland or Panama as second nationalities. So we, in a reinforcement of the fight against tax evasion and circumvention, understand that a cooperative system must also be made. I'm going to finish. In short, In Marea, what it wants is tax sovereignty to ensure sufficient incomes that enable us to redistribut income and wealth in our country; that is to say, to exercise social justice and put into practice economic policies that allow us to reverse the diminishing situation in which we have been subject to the neoliberal policy of the People's Party. No, we don't resign ourselves to the People's Party or its maturation. We want a prosperous Galicia, so we defend an alternative financing system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u10	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, just over a year ago, the Block brought up the same debate in which we have already expressed the motives of our opposing vote, and since then not many more arguments have been given to change our opinion, the opinion of our group. The technical and political arguments given then are perfectly applicable, because I insist that there has been no change. There was no fundamental change at the entry point, which was that the Block brought a role in which those figures that literally invent and paint were minimally backed by reality. There's been some news since that debate. For example, the democratic control that the spokesperson for En Marea passed. In fact, who brought up the cupo debate lost a seat and lost two percentage points of vote. And whoever rejected it, in that case the People's Group maintains the number of seats and raised two percentage points of votes. There's also new, rigorous academic information that confirms the exhibition a year ago. Despite the controversy about the usefulness of tax balances, one has just become public, one that demonstrates that in Spain there is solidarity, solidarity between people and solidarity between territories; that autonomous communities where people have high incomes contribute to financing the public services of people with low incomes who reside in other territories, because we are with a progressive tax system, which raises the tax burden on citizens who have the highest incomes and lower incomes and offers more public services to those who have the lowest incomes. Tax balances say that Galicia benefits from Spain's tax flows at 6.85 % of its GDP per year, on the Castile-Leon and Andalusia line, while Madrid loses 9.82 % of GDP and Catalonia 5% of GDP, which is, of course, common in all federal systems applying a territorial redistribution system. Of course, tax balances also show the anomaly of the Basque and Basque Country, which, having an income above average, has a favourable fiscal balance, 5.30% of its GDP. As the balance expresses what is collected with taxes, which has to do with the wealth and income of every person living in each territory, and the expenses also have to do with issues such as unemployment, which meets the State, or social needs or social security, which also finances the State, it is clearly seen that there is solidarity with the Basque exception, of which it could be discovered that what is needed is to recast the coupon and not, on the contrary, to generalize it. We were talking about Social Security, and in the debate on the financing of Social Security and pensions, in addition to social contributions, tax financing is included. That's another risk of breaking the Spanish tax system. And the latest data, where it's seen that, despite growth, spending on pensions grows in Galicia three times as much as contributions, they think that that deficit of more than 2,000 million people have pensions in Galicia, which is likely to increase also in the whole of Spain and that, therefore, it has to be covered by taxes, gives us a little bit of insight into the misappropriation of the proposal that BNG brings us. The Union is defending a clear position, Mr. Villares, you were in this House when on 7 February we voted a motion that we dealt with with the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party; there is the political position of the Union and the Government is defending it; for example, the first point of that initiative was to get the solidarity of the system to be full, and not, as they defend and defend Catalan nationalists, who were not full, who excluded from public services, except two or three considered more fundamental; for example, Justice was not considered a fundamental public service. The experts, among them being appointed by the Galician Council, after consulting the groups of this House, have precisely managed to introduce this aspect into the report they have submitted. Therefore, the Union has a clear position. The Basque exception was specifically excluded for Catalans and Greeks, by the Catalan and Greek Members, who knew that this was an anachronism, the result of a historical process in which there were three carlist wars, three civil wars in Spain, was the fruit of a pact, and the important thing is that we defended it exclusively not by its results, which could be adjusted, but precisely because they are included in that Constitution to which you two were yesterday in Catalonia saying that they do not want to comply, that they do not want to respect and that they need to jump to the tower. That's the situation. [[Applause]] Ultimately, the coupon is an ungeneralizable mechanism. If it were done, it would end with solidarity, and it would certainly be detrimental to Galicia. There are other minor changes in the Block proposal. It's in the explanatory statement and today who defended this bill made reference to this: an idea that reinforces the technical inactivity of the proposal that the Block presents to us — I insist — without any role. It is said that we refer ourselves to the tax settlement, to the tax collection data in Galicia to show that we would have more money with the coupon; indeed, I remind you of what the last liquidated report of the Tax Agency, of the year 2014 -- it seems that you sometimes paint the data, quote the sources but do not quote them well—. In that report it was said that the collection of the Tax Agency in Galicia for all taxes was EUR 5,777 million. And Galicia has definitely liquidated 6,385 million euros, we're talking about 608 million euros. If you add, in addition, the EUR 1,110 million of the state transfers to finance the expenditure of the Greek local authorities and the EUR 367 million received from Galicia as finalist resources settled in that exercise, you will see that the difference between the revenue in Galicia and that spent by all the administrations in Galicia as a result of the transfers of the State through the system of autonomous financing, the local financing system and the finalist resources, is EUR 2,000 million. And you just said that, according to that report, just by looking at the liquidation, we would already have a deal done; obviously, a ruinous business of 2,000 million euros less. Of course, this is not how the tax balances are calculated — and I refer back to what I just said earlier —. The fact is that in Spain there is interpersonal solidarity, there is interterritorial solidarity, this is guaranteed by the Constitution, and we, within the constitutional system and the reform of self-financing, will follow those principles adopted in this motion in February, we will continue to try to maintain the capacity of the Autonomous Community. Political action, ladies and gentlemen, can move by principles or by interest, and I'm talking about legitimate interest. In fact, we have an obligation to defend Galicia's interest, and each one defends Galicia's interest in accordance with its principles. And, of course, I believe that, on the subject of self-financing reform, we defend the principles that markets generate unequal distribution, which must be corrected by means of equity instruments. That's in the Constitution, and I'm sure Professor Buchanan has often published that the mechanisms of the redistribution of the Constitution are an appropriate way to resolve social conflicts. We think these mechanisms of redistribution compensate for historical evolution over time, and the nationalists well know that there have been times in which Galicia sent to other autonomous communities, for example Catalonia, many people who contributed to the growth of Catalonia, and that many Greeks who emigrated to other countries of Europe or America sent savings that for many years have helped to strengthen investment in other regions like Catalonia. We understand that redistribution to balance market results is a basic principle. That system, which is constitutionalized, of course, is the principle we defend. The Basques defend another, defend the principle of full tax sovereignty, which is recognized in some way by our Constitution, and pay them the bill, because they're above average income. What is absolutely inconceivable is that a group that claims to defend Galicia's interest, by principle, defends a position in autonomic financing that would be a real ruin for Galicia. BNG has this as an example of its highest inconsistencies: it is against the redistribution of the market generated over many decades in Spain, it is against what is of interest to the Welsh public archives, and, in addition, in the case of generalization of this system — as one of the precedents has already said in the use of the word — Galicia would lose funding to exports, and look at that we are talking about more than one billion euros, contrary to the current financing system, where per capita and adjusted resident funding is giving Galicia more resources than the average of autonomous communities. Finally, there's a problem of opportunity. On the last day, we saw someone posting tax balances, saying Catalonia is damaged. We also saw the simulations made by a member of the Catalan National Assembly, who represented the experts, the Balearic Community, which said that what was to be done is to recover ordinary, and according to that report, Catalonia would earn 1 billion euros and Galicia would lose 570. This is when we are negotiating how the principles of the report are translated into a reform of the system of self-financing. We know that the quota costs are impressive for Galicia, that the current system is giving us a tax balance of 5-6 % of GDP. We know it's not generalizable, we know it's irrational from the point of view of the organization of a Territorial Farm. We know that it is incompatible with what marks the European Union, which means the principle of beginning to introduce fiscal harmonisation at European level as well. Having so many costs and so many risks associated with the introduction of the coupon, as opposed to what was foreseen by the Constitution, they bring to a full sovereignist challenge, and of course, the Block is on a step further from the return to the past; that is, you had a moment when it seemed that they adopted autonomy and now they go back, also electorally. You'll know what they're doing. In the end, the BNG does what it does is to defend a system of harmful financing for Galicia, at the worst possible moment, which is when it's reforming. They defend the reduction in the redistribution of income between people and between territories in Spain, they defend financial isolationism, and also economics. Spain was the fifth country in the world that in the last forty years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u13	...with a decentralized democratic system, it grew more economically, thanks to openness to democracy and autonomy. We would very much like them to reflect on this and leave and abandon these things based on painted numbers that would, in addition, be an illogical thing from the point of view of the fundamentally prejudicial principles for the Welsh Fairy and hence for all the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u14	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank En Marea for her support for taking into account a law so that in this Parliament we can debate a proposal would be ambitious, beneficial to our country, and that would allow us to break with a centralism that — I insist — is a bad business for Galicia. And I, with regard to the interventions that have been made by the groups that will not support this initiative, the first thing I say, from respect to affection, to the spokesman for the Socialist Group is that I don't give progressive training; it seems that you come here to give us the flesh of progressive. What I'm very clear about is that progress is not being built into a gang with the People's Party on such an important subject for Galicia as is the financing model and breaking precisely some of the injustices that have created the current status quo. [[Applause]] They insist on those arguments almost the same; they don't match the figure; one says we lose more than another; I don't know if they have no papers or each one makes the accounts as appropriate; in any case, you say that this proposal is not timely for what happens in other territories. Because I believe that Galicia cannot be taken captive to the debates that we have to give as a country according to what others do. Precisely that's part of the problem we have to be able to move forward. I have often heard the President of the Galician Council complain that in the debate of 2009 he was a guest of stone, who did not paint anything at all in that debate. And what they're doing, in full, in 2017 and in the debate that's going to happen in 2018 is that we repeat that scenario again, that Galicia doesn't look absolutely nothing and that we're going to go out again losing. We're out losing because you're not defending Galicia's general interest; no, no; they're defending the interest of centralism, because the problem we have is not that there are no resources or that citizens aren't paying a lot of taxes right now; no, no; the problem is that we have an unfair fiscal system, inadequate in many cases to our reality and, thirdly, that allows the State to have spending priorities that have nothing to do with the needs of Galician society but that end up paying the people who live or we live in our country. During the years of the crisis there was a time when the level of collection dropped greatly, but there was another time when, if we compared the last few years, we see how there was a tax recovery for the reforms that the central government has made, and it turns out that this higher tax payment did not have a reflection on the financing system and we did not get any more resources, because the central government, with you agree, decided that it was priority, before saving education and education, rescuing the bank, ending by giving it more than 40,000 million euros. And we want to change that model. And this is a proposal that has no legal problems. Tell me, if not, what were the legal repairs that the Bureau of Parliament has made to you? Were there any legal repairs? No one, because it's not a problem of legality, it's a political problem. The Spanish Constitution doesn't say anywhere that we can't have an economic concert. You tell me where you forbid us to have an economic concert. It's his centralist mindset that's preventing us from moving forward in a system with which, of course, we would have only advantages. And then you tell us two criteria, such as solidarity and equality. So they tell us that the current state is what guarantees us all and that we all have equality and solidarity. Are you really convinced of that? Do we have the same services they have in Madrid, we have exactly the same AVE connections, the same railway connections, the same wages, exactly the same pensions? Is that the equality you're talking about? What equality do they tell the Greeks and the Greeks, who have the lowest wages, who still have to emigrate in the face of lack of opportunity, because there is no political courage to trust the possibilities we have and develop a future project? You're keeping an absolutely busy structure of centralist state and telling the Greeks and Greeks that we are worthless, that we can't, and at that, of course, it doesn't contain us. [[Applause]] Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, pays a lot more taxes than those 5,000 of those you're talking about, because they keep insisting that Galician tax capacity is the one that recognizes the current financing system, and that's just a small part of the taxes that we've already paid by the Greeks and the Greeks. And you also know Mr. Puy -- because I know he's a smart person who doesn't make such mistakes -- that the debate about the model of the funding system has nothing to do with the debate about the pension system; they're different boxes, the pension system is paid through the taxation of workers; and all they want is, as at all, to scare people and not want to take up debates about political positions and also about the opportunities they open. We are at a time when the debate on the financing model opens, and the proposal that the People's Party and the Socialist Party defend seems to reflect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u17	...—I have finished, Mr President—in that report by the experts. A proposal that states that the State does not have to put more resources on the financing system, which says that the alternative is more centralization and less fiscal capacity, where it also says that there is a need to break with that clause of the status quo, which may mean less income for our country, or in which one of the formulas for financing public services is said to be more health-related or a higher rate of tax returns, such as VAT. That, of course, can't be a valid starting point, because it's an antisocial and old-fashioned proposal, and what we're defending with this proposal for concert is the proposal that we trust that Galicia can, and of course, the public services that we don't have in them pay anyone from Madrid, we pay them the Greeks and Greeks with the taxes that they religiously charge the Spanish State every day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Consideration of the G.P. Bill Proposal People in Galicia, promoting the implementation of business initiatives in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u19	Mr Tellado has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u20	Thank you, President. Mr. Economics and Employment Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, very good days to all. Now if we're going to talk about something that interests Galicia. We presented the G.P. bill. Popular, the Law on the Promotion of the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives. We are not going to find out here today that in the last decade we have lived for several years of fundamental economic crisis that led to the destruction of part of Galicia's productive tissue. Nor will we discover that the new context of recovery and growth is opening up a new horizon for our economy that we should use to give impetus to our consolidated sectors and to capture new ones that strengthen our economy. A world where the market and competition are international; in that world, the challenges are very big, but so are the opportunities. And that's why we have to deal with the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities that we have. That is the dual objective which the People's Group brings with this proposal to promote the implementation of business initiatives. We believe that we must take a step forward to turn Galicia into a place that is able to compete with territories around us and that it is attractive to host quality industrial projects. The central idea of this text is a question of political philosophy, the way we should understand institutions. From the People's Group we firmly believe that administrations should not be a factory of obstacles to economic activity but rather a facilitator for it to be produced with guarantees. And that's why this bill is born with three fundamental objectives: the first is to simplify, the second is to liberalize and the third is to empower. We want to simplify; simplify administrative procedures to reduce to half the duration of the procedures necessary for the implementation of a new industrial project. We want to liberalize; liberalize sectors to convert Galicia into an international reference territory. And we want to empower; boost the attraction of companies with incentives and exemptions so companies choose our land to start their new business project. But this is not about generic ideas, but about a battery of measures that facilitate the whole process of implementation, from the documentation process, the birth process of the industrial project, through the search for placement and the beginning of activity. We want to accompany the new industrial projects in all that step, in all that process, and do it from the administrations, not only from the Galician Union, but also from the municipalities. And, therefore, this is a law that implies everyone, it's a law that we want it to be born with as much consensus as possible. Under this law, projects that choose Galicia will have to be addressed to the Autonomic Administration to integrate into a single procedure integrated environmental authorisation, environmental impact declaration and, if necessary, the relevant sectoral report. This is not about reducing environmental demands, what it is about reducing bureaucracy, reducing procedures, reducing times and, therefore, I think that no one can be against the non-reduction of bureaucracy, because bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely no guarantee of anything. And that is what we want with this initiative. We offer industrial soil in the most advantageous conditions possible, we will raise the range of law to its bonus, as well as surface rights or preferred right on neighboring farms. In addition, we propose new measures, such as the development of polygons to measure the current demand at every moment, allowing the partial urbanization of certain areas; we will create the Galicia Industrial Solo Census and we will offer speedy payment and no interest to facilitate the purchase of parcels. We put on the table the need to give economic incentives to businesses, ensuring that they can receive the maximum level of aid that allows the European Union and through which the municipalities relieve the tax burden that makes them bear. And, as we are aware that we will also ask the local administration for an effort, we will also give them a counterpart: we will offer to the municipalities that collaborate on this line direct benefits to those who agree to reduce their taxes, encouraging them to join the Doing Business Councils initiative. We must all play our part in strengthening economic activity, and the municipalities are the first interested, along with the Galician Union, in fixing population and in improving their public services. We were talking earlier about sectors that should be liberalised, in our opinion, and in this sense we would like to highlight the measures in two specific areas: wind and forest. As for wind, the public tender will be eliminated, transparency will be provided with the creation of the Galician Wind Register and temporary certainty, setting maximum deadlines for authorization, construction and exploitation. And in the forest, companies that want to make a cut can approach a single window, which has been demanded for a long time, which will provide the guarantee process. And in general, the permit will be limited to a prior communication to reduce processing deadlines. In addition, as far as mining is concerned, legislation is also improved to speed up the implementation of projects, and in cooperatives the number of partners is reduced to the maximum in order to form them. Finally, I believe that we are faced with one of the most ambitious bills that will be carried through this legislation and that can give a significant boost to our industrial policy, something that opposition groups also demand — at least it was what they said in their speeches in the previous part-session. We will now see whether this demand to promote Galicia's industrial policy is certainly accompanied by that support for the processing of this law, which would open this way. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group we sincerely believe that Galicia and the Greeks deserve to have a sincere, uncut, reflection on the situation we are facing. We compete, we compete with many places, but we're all aware that our immediate rival in industrial deployment is northern Portugal. With that idea this law is born, with that idea we present this bill. According to the Global Competitiveness Report of the World Economic Forum, of what some media have echoed in recent times, Spain and Portugal show differences in silence in many of the items the index analyzes. We don't want to compete with Portugal either through wages or through workers' rights, we want to influence where we have the ability to do so; from our own self-government we want to determine where we have the capacity to do so, and this is in matters such as regulatory restrictions, the time to start an activity or the number of procedures to start a company. What we propose from the Popular Parliamentary Group is to equip ourselves with all the tools that enable our self-government to minimize, to the least expression, the gap with the Portuguese neighbours at these points. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. From the People's Group we have made repeated calls to opposition groups over the past few weeks to reach an understanding of a law that will be of the most transcendent of this legislation. This law answers, at least at an initial stage, many of the demands that the opposition has expressed in recent months in this House. They've been asking the Government for months to counter the harsh competition given to Galicia regions around us, and this text provides answers. For months, they have been calling for measures to reindustrialize the country and facilitate the implementation of new economic activities, and this text provides measures in that direction. They've been asking for measures to help create jobs and that these jobs are becoming more and more quality and stable, in companies that offer high added value and this text offers measures oriented in that direction. If your argument to vote against this law, as some have already announced -- I think even without reading it in the last few weeks -- is that the text is insufficient, I can tell you that no long way is made without a first step. And this law is a first step, and this law that we bring here to take into consideration and that initiating parliamentary proceedings is an opportunity to sit down and talk about what really concerns the Greeks and the Greeks, which, of course, is not the coupon and, of course, has nothing to do with what's going on in Catalonia; no, no. The Greek people are concerned about creating jobs. We're creating jobs; we're in a situation of economic recovery; what we're talking about is taking advantage of this situation to create productive tissue. And here or if he's or he's not, but what's not worth is criticising everything, being installed on the "not by the no" and, finally, always against the Government, which is the same thing as being against Galicia. You have a chance to prove that what they say and what they do is the same. If, as we suspect, your argument is that of not by no means, that of opposition to everything, you will be doing an unacceptable political hypocrisy exercise, you will remain in this Parliament and in view of the public opinion portrayed as what many of us believe to be: enemies of economic activity and hence enemies of the well-being of the Greeks. We see them here worried about employment, but ultimately, at the same time, what they ask is to close companies, the line followed. And the fact is that those who create jobs are business initiatives like those that we want to enhance with this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that many of you are more concerned about the internal struggles of your parties than about the problems of the Greeks, but this is an opportunity to start well this session and to start building, also from opposition groups, a different speech about Galicia in which we live, rather than talking permanently about what happened eight decades ago. That's very good to divide, to confront, but ultimately, it doesn't produce jobs, and we're here to change Galicia's situation, to take advantage of the situation of economic recovery and to create jobs. [[Applause]] And, therefore, what we ask of you, with the introduction of this bill, is that you add to an open debate in this House, that you can hear, read your amendments, and that you can, among all, enrich a text that I am sure you can incorporate measures, proposals from the opposition groups. To say no by no means at the end is good enough to oppose the Galician People's Party, but not by no means by the end, the only thing that leads to is to oppose Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u22	Good morning to all and to all. We are debating today this proposal made by the majority group; a bill in which they already practice something that advances in this legal reform, which is to skip steps and skip reports. In his particular version of coworking, the People's Party presents this law as a parliamentary group, not as a government, although the Counsellor has been on tour for over a month, announcing to us the goodness of these laws, even advancing some of the changes that are not yet collected. For that, since you came in time, Mr. Count, you could come here to talk to us, though it is always a pleasure to hear Mr. Tellado. Finally, the reading we do of this is that you save some reports with this maneuver, for example, the report of the Economic and Social Council of this country, which brings together different agents and which is also preparing a study on an alliance in the German industrial sector that would undoubtedly be of interest. But, well, you don't care. After that, the justification for urgency is already a direct insult to intelligence. You are based on an analysis that is entirely part of the macroeconomic framework, and you are not trying to make an exhaustive X-ray of which are the needs of our productive tissue. They forget once again a fundamental piar that already invalidates this proposal from the root: that the economic model always feeds the social model; and we cannot understand it separately or we will continue to leave many Greeks and Greeks behind so that the figures of macroeconomics are not assuming any improvement in their living conditions and they will not get them out of the precariousness in which they are installed. Look, Mr Tellado, you're late for the relocation debate. After companies, trade unions and opposition groups had insisted untiringly that a country strategy was needed for this issue, it seemed that you fell from the donkey; it looked, but it didn't. They first got profiled and now they're trying to take advantage of a problem and a reality that's already recognized all over the world to get us into a law that's a real tailor's drawer. It's the early version of any of the accompanying laws that you always implement with budgets. You take advantage of a need that this country has, for example, of agitating procedures and favoring the management of the industrial floor, which is a demand that exists, but that they use only and exclusively as a disguise, as a disguise, because what they actually do is to substantially modify, in a discreet manner, numerous laws of vital importance for the well-being of our citizenship and for the development of our industry. They change the Mining Law, they modify the Wind Law, they modify the Mountain Law, they change the Nature Conservation Law, they change the Water Law, they modify the Land Law, and many others without consensus and without participation. Already as much as possible exercise of political cynicism, they come to write this exhibition of motives saying that they have opened a process of public participation for citizenship in general, and now Mr Tellado has come to tell us that he has been calling the Holy Spirit and the opposition groups but what planet he lives on! [[Applause]] Look, one thing, by the way, doesn't really become, and what you just said is directly a lie: there wasn't any such procedure or it won't exist, because you're going to go through this legal text with your crusher of the absolute majority. So since the Galician Nationalist Block we also call them: if they really want dialogue, what they want is consensus, talking to opposition groups and talking to social agents, because they withdraw this bill, withdraw this bill and start a more relaxed process, if that's what they want, because we don't buy them either forms or content. Look, we are faced with a decisive moment in which, in the face of these challenges of relocation, these challenges of exiting from the consequences of the socio-economic crisis and the lack of investment and design of this country, there are two exits: on one side, which we defend, which goes by boosting a change of productive model, intense, in activities of greater added value and knowledge, and counting on public participation as an engine; or on the other hand, the output directly proposed by the People's Party, which in this law draws the most incarnated neoliberalism. And I will be direct: this law is the law itself, ladies and gentlemen, of a colonized country, and we will not give it our favorable vote. The evidence is that it focuses exclusively, in practice, on three sectors: on energy, on extraction and forestry. Energy, extraction and forest. Tell me, what economic development planning is that in a country? Just open the doors so they come here to bring the resources you want to consider? We understand, of course, that with the changes they are implementing, what they do and what they seek is that the general interest of extractive or energy companies prevails above any other kind of interest, without margin for consensus and for negotiation, just like the birth and end of this law. And they do it by limiting, among other things, access to information and deadlines for public exposure. There is no doubt that there are deadlines in this country that need to be agitated, that there is a need to promote the connection between administrations and rationalize all that intruder. But where you say axillization, what there really is to skip transparency and limit the capacity of opinion and intervention of the neighborhood, of the collectives and also of the municipalities, yes, of the municipalities as well. Because it's absolutely scandalous the use that you make in this supermunicipality law, understood as a tool to skip the municipalities, not to cooperate with them. They do it by legalizing and strengthening two great Trojan horses: strengthening that declaration of singular business projects by reducing conditions, and thus falling into that friendly capitalism, because more than liberalizing what they do is friendship capitalism, so that it's the Board of the Board of Trustees who put the name and names of companies and points. It is also in this sense the reinforcement of the shape of strategic industrial projects, so they open the door to large companies waving our resources out of control and without political and social consensus. And that's not what we're going to allow, and we trust that this country will rebel against these issues. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I recommend that you abandon your cynicism and tell us clearly: tell us clearly whether this law is the safe haven for Elnosa, tell us whether this law is the safe haven for Ence, if it is the safe haven so that Porto Cabral is a shopping center instead of a communal mountain, if it is the safe haven for situations where the installation of an windman has some kind of collision with the neighboring and municipal interests — as in Laxe — go forward, if it is the safe haven so that the Fenosa Natural Gas can make — changes to the hydraulic law — the changes that give him gain in the coronation of Conchas and of Salas and that he must not go anywhere. [[Applause]] If that's their political philosophy, we don't buy it from them. And look, I'm also going to make some more progress in the short time that I have left. This law also shows that you lack a country model and only listen to yourself. An example: Sogama. You claim in this law the creation of a Sogama composting plant, which certify that the incineration model is dead and failed, because you have to finally assume the conditions that the European guidelines and environmental and ecological organizations put on the table. But they still show that they didn't learn anything. They introduce a minor cannon, which is what Sogama is charging, assuming it's cheaper, and they don't even make a strict bet for bringing more composting plants to more composting areas in the country. While you do that, the Pontevedra model is going five steps ahead, and it's already working on composting on site. But there's more reason to make sure this law is an absolute nonsense. There are numerous evases and shortcomings. For example, they limit the economic aspect to subsidies, without setting the criteria and leaving the decision basically in the macro-counselry of Industry, and the reduction of municipal rates. They're actually giving up public participation. They continue to pay with the modification of the most fine wind law because they have secularized the Bipartite's exemplary wind contest, but still they continue to renounce public participation. They also do not propose a single improvement in the role of Igape, nor a single measure to promote the closure of productive cycles in Galicia, in the line of the creation of the Galaga Forest Agency and the promotion of any kind of stalemate and the reduction of any aspiration to a multifunctional exploitation and the endowment of economic value from the mountain, apart from wood production. Not a single measure to promote territorial rebalancing. It is not enough to collect that there may be smaller polygons, but measures must be introduced for rebalancing and for the south of the country to grow equally.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u24	Not a single measure — and I will end it — for specific actions to reverse that relocation which it seems they finally assumed exists. Not a single measure to influence the criteria for job improvement and quality. Not a single measure in connection with R+D+i or the Greek universities. In short, this is Troy's horse law, so the companies that the Council of Galicia decides to do with our country what they want, and therefore from the BNG we're going to vote against their consideration, and we make a call that, if they really want to dialogue, they want to incorporate proposals from the opposition or from the affected sectors, they withdraw this law and they start that dialogue from what they so often talk and so little practice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, two articles published by Hannah Arendt have just been re-published, entitled "Truth and Lie in Politics." I'm going to read a small paragraph, because, actually, what I mean is that the first news I had as a member of the People's Party bill registered on July 28, 2017 at 9.30 a.m. was when the administrative services of my group sent me. I'm saying it's because someone thinks there's really been that period of prior consultations; at least with the Socialist Group there was not, I don't know if it was with the Galician Nationalist Block or with En Marea; then I would feel twice as much aggravated. He wrote Hannah Arendt, quite well, as always: "The lies are often much more plausible, more appealing to the reason than reality, because whoever lies has the great advantage of knowing in advance what his audience wants or expects to hear, has prepared his story for public consumption, finding it credible, while reality has the disconcerting habit of dealing with the unexpected, with that for which we are not prepared." We are not primarily prepared for poverty and inequality in a country that has improved its social situation for several decades, and unfortunately in that nonpreparation is where this ideological magma that Mr. Tellado described us here today. We're watching a real theater, with all due respect. When this bill is signed on July 28, and on July 29, the Counsellor said in an interview, speaking of this bill: "It's one more step, an important step that brings a vertebrate administrative simplification of the cycle of an industrial project. It is a work of the entire Government, in which all the councils of the United Nations have participated."man! Mr. Counsellor, at least it would be all right if you had remembered the People's Parliamentary Group, who had registered it, at least for this purpose to recognize the work done. [[Applause]] But, in addition, the press notes of Junta, that advertising and propaganda department that certainly works very well; recorded — I insist — on July 28th; press release of September 4th: "Conde starts with CEL the round of contacts to consensualize future Galician Business Implementation Act." I hope it's approved. Anyway, do you think the sequence is reasonable? Does it seem to you that, in terms of dignity, of this House, it is reasonable for the opposition's majority group to register a bill -- they have every right to do so -- in a way, as the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block, absolutely disguised, absolutely capitalized by the German Government? I really don't think so. See if you agree, because the round of contacts with the CEL starts now, in September, you see that Mr. Tellado has been put forward with contacts with parliamentary groups in virtual reality, that fourth dimension that I never know very well where he is. [[Applause]] There was a moment—and then I realized it was a mirrorism—in which even Mr. Tellado's speech sounded poetic; for a moment I said, "Fucks!" but no, it was a mirrorism. He said three infinitives, who logically rhymed: -ar, -er, -ir. But I have other three, which is what's behind this law, which is a deeply ideological law. You are voting on the proposals from the opposition, the Socialist Group and the other groups, to improve what is the industrial policy of this autonomous community, not in this legislation, since 2009, and tell them who has been a spokesman — with greater or less success — in terms of votes in Parliament with very little — for some time now. It's not about deregulation so you don't know very well what. No, no, the sequence is different, Mr. Tellado and Mr. Count. The sequence is a sequence that is not new, which is not invented by the Galician Union, which has been dragged into what is the capitalist economy for decades. And it is, first, to destabilize public administration, with which there are many rules, with which it makes it difficult, with which it paralyzes etc., etc., and then to open the door to deregulation — and we are at that stage — and then justify privatization. And this sequence, which is not an obsession with Abel Losada or the Socialist Group, is what happens every time he governs the right in the developed Western countries. You can dress it the way you want it, but by the way, you've even been dressed badly. I got the trouble of looking for some keywords on these 82 pages — 82 pages, eh!—. Research; once; 82 pages, once. It's true. I'm saying that you're going now to Acrobat, which leaves six others, but that's exactly about mining research and wind research. Oh, by chance! Research into a macro concept—that's what you like so much, Counselor; I think Mr. Tellado too. Once. "Innovation" appears once when referring to the order of the Industry Council on 7th of 9th of 2007. The word innovation in this business deployment, in 82 pages, appears once referring to an order of a government of the Union; therefore, as if it were not. "Training," zero; "human capital," zero; "stable and quality employment," three times—82 pages—; "competitivity," two, none in the articulated, the two in the pattern exposure. I believe that this perfectly frames what the political objective of this law is, and sets it up, because the political objective of this law, in fact, as I said before, is, after disparaging the public domain, deregulating and subsequently privatizing. And look, when administrative procedures are delayed... I fully share the single window for forest cuts. But the solution is not to eliminate procedures, eh!, the solution is that there are public personnel that solves in time. That's the solution. When ideologically it is decided that the state and public administration should be thinned because that's the problem and not the solution is when there are bills like this. So don't be fooled, it's not a matter of agitating anything, it's a matter of deregulation to allow the economic interests of private actors to campaign on public collective interests. And that's the objective of this summer snake -- also the voicer of the BNG -- is absolutely complex in the formal because, indeed, it's a sort of a bis accompaniment law. I just hope that now in the Budget Accompanying Law we don't get 82 pages of changes again because, if not, I recognize my personal, intellectual incapacity, almost of reading ability to understand these issues. In fact, what you do, Counsellor - and you know it perfectly - is to skip the preceptive reports. Does it seem reasonable to you that a bill entitled "enhancing the implementation of business initiatives in Galicia" does not go through an ESC report? Do you think it's normal, the common? Is it so urgent? If it's so urgent, can you explain to me why they have to vote not systematically on opposition initiatives that have to do with these issues directly? Because they want to skip those kind of controls. And I want, very quickly, to go to the issues that affect: Local administration, hydraulics, soil and urbanism, environment, Sogamma, electricity, investment incentives, installation of distribution for oil products, mining, wind farms, cooperatives, ports, mountains, tourism, roads, cultural heritage and autonomous administration. It's so bad that in the pattern exposure it doesn't even refer to the laws it changes, it doesn't even refer to all the laws it changes, which is always surprising. It has nothing to do with what appears in the election program of your party a year ago. Most of the measures don't appear... Mr. Tellado, perhaps you have an improbable version of the PP electoral program. I'm talking about what was hanging on the website, which is the one I have access to, of course. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, most of the issues do not appear in the famous Strategic Plan 2014-2020. By the way, we already know there aren't many of the issues that you're going through. And finally, the only thing they seem to want to talk about — but it's really what they don't want to talk about — is the Sectoral Plan for Management of Business Areas, which, by the way, in their roles is gradually going to get bogged down. It's less and less square meters. It used to be because the demand was decreasing, now, which looks like we recovered, I think it would be convenient for a review to rise. I would like to remind you that in February 2015 — i.e. two years ago — the legislative decree was enacted and the provisions on industrial policy were consolidated: the 2010 Act on Adaptation to Services in the Internal Market; the 2011 Act on Industrial Policy of Galicia; the 2013 Act on Entrepreneurship and Economic Competitiveness of Galicia. You can explain to me what a new element is on the economic stage of this autonomous community that leads to this -- and let me... I would say chapuza, but probably the word is... at the end... to this job ideologically biased, formally entrepreneurship and that the only thing you want to skip...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u28	...the administrative controls that should have a law in a serious country? And finally, as always, the Council of Galicia. The board invites and the council to see if they pay anything, which, given that they have only assumed competences which are not their own, because here, one more. That's right, you're talking about hypothetical support in certain subsidies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u30	...but nothing but that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u31	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u32	We will therefore vote against this initiative. And by the way, speaking of councils, I want to express from here the support of the Socialist Group to the councils governed by the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which, without any doubt, must defend legality, something as basic and simple as that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u33	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u34	Mr. Losada, you've been left for a few seconds to have a perfect intervention, the last; for my opinion, of course, of course. Yes, Mr. Losada. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Tellado was talking about a globalized world. I say, yes, where the capitals are globalized. And it's true, no one with two fingers can prevent all measures from having to be focused on that reality, but you in that globalized world seem to be committed to converting Galicia to Katanga, which has an economic model, to the misfortune of its inhabitants, which allows the spore of large companies with activities of great environmental impact and little generation of jobs that leave little wealth and that leave these countries mortgaged, even in their health, for many years. Nothing said today or what was said when the People's Party introduced this bill is true, nor anything said of the explanatory statement is true. This is not a law to promote the implementation of business initiatives, it is a law of environmental deregulation, of deprotection of our heritage, of reducing public and business participation for a few companies in the electricity, mining and some forest. It is done by large companies to speed up policy in extractive activities that usually cause high impacts and create little value and little employment. No new bet to develop endogenous sectors, such as the agri-food industry, the auxiliary automotive industry, the auxiliary renewables industry, etc. They want to specialize in selling cheap raw materials to benefit a few companies. They write at the fingertips of certain economic and business lobbyies. They're talking about public participation in the explanatory statement, Mr Tellado has just said. Where is he? They don't explain it. Look, personally, they held meetings — we held meetings — with the Galician Labour Union, with Agricultural Unions, with Ventonoso, with Adega, with the Common Neighborhood Mountains of Galicia, with Workers' Commissions, with the IGC, with the Contamination Platform, with the Corcoesto Defense Platform, with associations for the defence of heritage such as Marine Heritage, etc., and nobody knew the contents of this law or had conversations with you. And since I don't like to call them liars, I do think there was public participation. If the broad list with which we should have public participation remains for all these groups who live on earth and who defend the earth, what is left of us, of course, are those who will benefit from this law. You did participate with Sacyr, with Natural Gas, with Endesa, with Iberdrola, with these companies that will benefit from this law. Yes, because it would be too rude for them to present it directly. And you act like an instrumental party of these interests. On the other hand, it is also false, from the very beginning, Article 1, the object: "The object of this law is to promote the implementation of business initiatives in Galicia through the provision of measures to facilitate the development, access and management of the business ground, the improvement of applicable legislation and the timely implementation and provision of appropriate incentives, as well as the coordination of the actions in this direction of the various councils of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community and the Town Councils, within the framework of the exclusive competence of the latter for the promotion and planning of Galicia's economic activity." Not a word that here changes from above the model of the wind sector, not a word that they could not introduce when they wanted to do the Sectoral Plan of Extractive Activities, which was drafted by the Mining House itself, and they couldn't for the social answer that had the document; not a word of the shift from above under the Mining Law to further benefit the policy. They try to hide those measures that they could not achieve democratically, because in this country there are people who want another model for the country, a model of economic activity that also allows the conservation of our heritage, our environment and our landscape, which, in addition to us, are basic to the future economic development of this country. That's why they do it again with nightlife and alleviation, to take these measures out of society. That is to reduce administrative barriers. Exactly what it means for you to reduce administrative barriers is to reduce administrative barriers to large ones; for small ones, nothing to reduce administrative obstacles, increase them. You break down the administrative obstacles to the electric oligopolie, while a person who has to apply for the electric ticket has to do a lot of procedures, and many of them cannot have that help for the bureaucracy — that is bureaucracy — which harms the common people. You don't remove administrative obstacles from a small power producer. You made a decree of self-consumption to put administrative obstacles on anyone who wanted to produce electricity in their home and, above all, put taxes on it. And, in the end of the defeat, Mr Feijóo says that they will not use franchising methods against the Franco family, of course not; they will not use franchising methods with the Franco family, but for the common mortals they will use them. What you propose in this law is to strengthen, against the people, the 1954 Law of forced expropriation — French — so that companies like Sacyr, Natural Gas, Endesa, etc., use as a pressure weapon to get the land and get it at cheap price. Neoliberalism itself, but with Dad State behind; this is what these companies practice. Both in the mining — and I do not have time, in this great debate on a topic as crucial, to say — and in the windmill you reinforce the figure of the statement of public utility. How is it possible that in this country it is systematically declared of public utility what are private businesses of large companies against people? How can it be that systematically, always, if you decide on the same side what utility is public? It's a private business. In such a case, we will discuss where to do and how to do, but these companies are doing is a private business. You can't systematically use the public utility to harm people and get these companies to land. A glover, when he wants to increase the territorial base of his exploitation, does not have behind the statement of public utility to threaten with the expropriation to those who do not sell the land, even if he has abandoned it, without cultivating or planting eucalyptus on agricultural land. They don't have Dad State behind them, like the big companies you work for. Or projects declared of particular interest. You're changing the wind model from above. They give you a folder to the model of the contest and instead of making an open debate about which wind model, after giving you a folder to the method of the contest we want to make, you hide a bill that you're going to do is to focus even more on the business in a number of companies. The wind model developed in this country results in data: more than 70% of the megawatts in this country correspond to companies that are based in foreign countries, vacuum funds, large electricity companies, large construction companies. It invoices this sector between 600 and 700 million euros. And what's left here? There are studies that say that there is 1.5% left in rentals, when there are only 6% more countries in this concept. No measures to improve that. No measures to improve social return, no measures to have areas of exclusion beyond the Natura Network, which in addition to that exclusion is partial because it will allow repotencing. There's no measure for wind farms like what they want to install in Laxe to pay for the wind canon: three aerogeers, nine megawatts installed and won't pay even a euro of wind canon. But you don't do any action for that. Projects declared to be of particular interest. They'll cut their deadlines in half, and so will public participation. For a company to reduce fifteen days in public participation, or ten days, it doesn't mean the difference between installing or not installing. But for people who want to make claims and who have the right to do so, it can mean the difference between being able to make claims or not. That's the real goal. Just like when they withdraw the authorization from Heritage. You're talking about administrative procedures and bureaucracy. Say goodbye, say goodbye, because you are responsible for this mismanagement. You're responsible that when a person wants to cut off in a BIC place, or in the surroundings of cultural interests, he has to wait nine months, ten months or a year for the authorization of Heritage. It's your responsibility to mismanagement. So what we have to do is not suppress the authorization, as is done here. If it gets deleted! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, sir! Read to her. I'm fine, I'm fine. That authorization is removed instead of putting more resources in place. That's also creating jobs. Look, there are two archaeologists throughout the province of Coruña. Then put more to make those reports. They're not that hard. If there's a mamma, a report is made on the measures to be taken before she cuts and it's done. It's fifteen days. They put people to work in archaeology. We can also generate jobs for the value of that heritage. That's economics too, but it's economics that favors ordinary people, not electric oligopolies, mining oligopolies. If there are administrative obstacles, it's because of its ineffective management, but you can't solve that by removing the procedures, the guarantees, as you do. They even get in the way of Santiago, who had a three-meter margin protected for the generalized cut of native leafy trees and you open your hand for cases of generalization of these cuts, when you know that the main problem in the forest sector for this country is not administrative agileization -- even if there is one for the common people -- it's not. It is to change the model to create a model that creates more jobs, that creates more value, that transforms here. And of that, not a single line in this bill. It's the same in mining. You can't approve this in the light of the day, you have to do it at night. Because here mining requires another model diametrically opposite, more environmental control, less uncontrolled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u36	You've already made a master plan for Natura Network to allow Natura Networks to expand their operations in the open sky, etc. It's all a lie, because in fact you can't go in this country, as much as Mr Tellado, in a totalitarian gesture, say that voting against this is against Galicia. You're not Galicia, you're part of Galicia. Well, not even in this society, if you present this to the truth in the future, you could approve it. Because this country doesn't want to be Katanga. This country wants to combine economic activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u38	...with the conservation of the environment, the landscape and the return of society, which does not have an activity of 700 million euros — which is half the agricultural production — that brings it to 95% of the foreign companies you owe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u39	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u40	Those natural resources belong to the people and the people have to return.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Replica. For the author group of the bill, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. It happened what we expected to happen, that they had done their part, that one in which they've been in, last year, with the clock stopped: "You're not, we vote against everything." Of course it is to vote against Galicia to vote against this bill. Because this is about generating industry, generating jobs, and you're constantly against employment, that's reality. They are the only ones who come to this Parliament to close companies. He won't see us in that set. And they don't understand that the People's Parliamentary Group can make a law in collaboration with the Government, with our government, with the government emanating from our majority. And they don't understand it because you, when they ruled, what they did was to oppose themselves. They opposed themselves from their own party, from the group to their party councillors, from the other party, among them... one announced a measure in the morning, the other criticized her in the afternoon. That was his model. But we, who represent the majority — not because you leave us, Mr Sanchez, but because the Greeks wanted it — work every day, and together, the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group that supports it, most of them. We work every day to generate jobs here in Galicia. So criticism allows me not to buy it. And the truth is that it takes courage from certain groups to come here to complain about the parliamentary procedures for which this law is being dealt with, when you justified what happened the other day in Catalonia, you, you... [[Applause]] That's an anti-democratic joke, an anti-democratic joke. I must remind Mrs Noa Presas, moreover, that Mr Francisco Conde is a member of the Popular Parliamentary Group. And indeed, he is sitting here as a member of the Government, but he could sit on the back bench as a member of the People's Parliamentary Group. And, therefore, how we are not going to collaborate with the counsellor in the drafting of the law! How we're not going to listen to the government, who is with the interlocutors every day!, not with the next ideologically you, as you do, who only meet those who are interested in them and those who dance with them. No, no, we met with social agents from Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u43	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u44	Madam Presas, I have the feeling that, traveling to Catalonia, he didn't have much time to read the text of what we were talking about, he didn't see it, and he did have time to take pictures of himself with Arnaldo Otegi. So, you understand, don't talk to me about parliamentary procedures. [[Applause]] We, of course, will never be in that lamentable picture. I have to tell you that Mr. Luis Villares has been smarter, that I don't know if he's been with Otegi. At least he shared a sign, shared a claim, but no photo was taken, no picture was taken. I guess... well, the nets would fail. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're talking about colonization. Look, we're in the 21st century. We have to compete. Give up the rancour speeches, those speeches that make you stand in opposition for so long. And you're talking about "friend capitalism." Mrs. Noa Presas, amicable capitalism was Bipartite's wind competition. You don't wake up because you weren't here. A contest that was criticised by 50% of the Government to another 50%. [[Murmurs.]] We didn't tell them, Mr. Pachi Vázquez said, Mr. Méndez Romeo, that there were many doubts about it, that if it was approved with night and relief, at the limit, in time, of an autonomous election. Friendship capitalism, Mrs Noa Presas, indeed. Mr. Losada, you say it's an ideological law. Indeed, of course it's an ideological law. We have a goal, which is that Galicia is competitive, competitive with our surroundings, that in Galicia is creating jobs, quality jobs, stable jobs. You're on other things. You've already confessed that you haven't read it. He used the word searcher and searched for words. You read words, but you haven't read the literality of the law. They're very busy in internal feuds, I understand. But they should have spent a lot of time reading this law, because it's important, because it tells a lot of things you're talking about here. And so when you put forward initiatives in one direction, what you really want is to vote against them. Because now we have the opportunity to process all together this Galician Business Implementation Act and you're saying no, that it's not through, that it's the best. What are we left with? It's late, but you'd rather not get there. One by two, at some point they're not telling the truth. I have to tell you that many of the measures of this law are in our government program and are in our president's investment speech. So, I think they have a chance to separate themselves from him "in you're in," which is a bad copy of the populists. Mr. Sánchez, our model is not Katanga, but it's Venezuela. Our model is Galicia, our model is Galicia! [[Murmurs.]] And Galicia is betting on employment, knowing what entrepreneurs do, supporting business initiatives. Open... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u45	Quiet, quiet! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u46	Galicia's model is not to shut down companies or launch businesses in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u47	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u48	That's what you guys want to do. His model is Venezuela, that Venezuela. Your model is to go to Catalonia with Otegi.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u49	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u50	Ours, no. We're not in them. So here everyone who rents accounts of what he does and who returns accounts of what he defends. His model is Venezuela, our model is not Katanga, our model is Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u52	And he didn't hear my intervention, because I talked about windshield and I spoke about mining clearly. What we want to do is dynamize these sectors, which are generators of employment, wealth and jobs, they like it or they don't like it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u54	You use propaganda speech, phrases made that are nothing but propaganda, but that ultimately say absolutely nothing. Look, the Greeks are asking us to bet on the job, we're going to generate a job. And jobs create companies that have benefits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u55	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u56	You want to sink all Galician companies because that makes us feel much better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u57	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u58	We certainly regret the exercise of hypocrisy of opposition groups. Don't come here talking about reindustrializing Galicia. Don't come here talking about jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u59	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u60	...because that, of course, is not your concern. We will pass this law because the Greeks gave us a wide majority to advance Galicia. We shall approve the processing of this law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u61	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u62	...and, of course, we'll have a chance to listen to your proposals if they do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u63	Thank you. We shall vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. Voting of legislative texts Vote on the proposal for a law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to present before the Congress of Deputies, for which the model of financing of Galicia is approved. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 52. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration. Vote on the proposal for a law of the G.P. People in Galicia, promoting the implementation of business initiatives in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. Therefore, this bill is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u64	Open the doors, please. We move on to the second item on the agenda. Opinion of the Economic, Employment and Industry Adviser, on his own request, to report on the 2020 Self-Government Strategy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u65	To formulate the intervention of this audience, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Since the Greek economy began to present its first symptoms of recovery, this government's priority has been to make that recovery palpable in homes, in the streets and in the productive sectors of Galicia. Today I come to this House because, almost a decade has passed since the crisis began, one of the pillars that most contributed to our economy for it to return to the path of growth was precisely the self-employed and self-employed in this country. I compare, therefore, to expose the main lines of support that the Greek Government has made available to this collective, which is, as you know, the backbone of the Greek economy, but also to talk about proposals for the future and therefore to work to make Galicia more and more enterprising and more innovative. And I would like the background of my intervention to be a clear message of recognition to the self-employed; I acknowledge how much they contribute to their work in creating jobs and wealth in Galicia, as far as it requires a self-employed to convert a business idea into a profitable company — sometimes requiring a second opportunity — however they have to risk on the way — in many cases, their savings and their wealth — and finally also because of those resignations that the self-employed have to do often when they are called upon to develop a job and, therefore, to give up aspects related to family or personal income. I used to mention our goal of broadening the scope of this recovery cycle that we have started. And there are a lot of reasons why the autonomous and the autonomous Welsh are at the heart of our growth and job creation policies. First, because, as an administration and as a society, it is up to all of us to compensate all those efforts for being a professional collective that is so close to our economic model. And secondly, because by paying particular attention to their specific circumstances, we are ultimately giving concrete solutions to the Greeks and to the Greeks in such an important framework as employment and enterprise. And that, ladies and gentlemen — employment and entrepreneurship — is an undeniable and unappreciable commitment to this Government. What I'm talking about, about the weight that workers and self-employed people have in the Greek economy, gives good faith the latest data recorded, some data that tells us that in August 2017 there were 224,540 self-employed people in Galicia and on their own. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen, that one in four memberships of Social Security in our community belongs to this collective. I'm about a thousand more affiliated people than this year's January, and this is a percentage that has remained stable in recent years. If we do a comparative analysis of Spain's set to, therefore, know what this collective's position is about the rest of Spain, we find that Galicia is the autonomous community with a higher percentage of autonomy. It brings together 7% of the self-employed and self-employed members of the Spanish group. But in addition, we are one of the most stable self-employment autonomy: 6 out of every 10 businesses are over five years old. And in terms of equality, women's participation in Galicia's self-employment is Spain's largest. The percentage of the autonomous women in Greece is 42.2%, which is 7 points more than the national average. With regard to this last point, I would also like to highlight the nuances of self-employment, because even we are talking about traditional companies already consolidated as startups, or even suggest to us entrepreneurship and youth how it covers the caseuistics of the generational relief. I mean, this is a very extensive and heterogeneous professional collective, and maybe that's what makes government measures more demanding to support and design those solutions that they need to save the problems they have to face every day. We are aware that autonomous people make up a sector that has suffered from the crises like no other. But also, because of its roots in Galicia's economic and social structure, we know that they are decisive actors in job creation and, consequently, economic recovery. And I use a significant data to illustrate it: since 2009 the percentage of self-employed people with employees rose to Galicia in more than three points, from 18% to 21.4%. Ladies and gentlemen, eight years ago we have assumed the Government, and since then our goal has always been to protect that fourth part of the Greek economy, which is the one that workers and workers represent on their own. And the way to do this was, first of all, relieving many of the obstacles that the economic crisis put on them by the way. Today we can say being autonomous in Galicia is easier than it was in 2009. Today, as a general rule, it is not necessary to have a license prior to the opening of a business. Today there are tax incentives for self-employed people, such as zero taxes in rural areas and the help I will give them to detail during my intervention, aids that reduce the burden of working as self-employed. Today, self-employed people have a network of accelerators in Galicia that supports anyone with a potential business idea. And today in Galicia, any autonomous supplier of the Galician board will charge his bills with more agility than ever before, 23 days before the state average. They are, as I said, some of the measures which have already led to alleviate the difficulties involved in this activity, and which are often more in the regulatory direction than in the direction of incentives themselves. But we bear in mind that the challenges of the current economy and the demands of the markets need that the administrations, that all administrations, meet the needs of self-government. We are well aware that the response to your demands is to adopt initiatives that help to simplify the life of the autonomous, that give them security and guarantees in order to start a business, that reduce the burden of excessive burdens they have to face in order to get it out, that give them greater social protection and, ultimately, that they recognize their rights as workers; principles, all of them, that I believe we should share in this House, because we all have the political responsibility to support a professional collective as indispensable to the economy of a country as the autonomous. That is why we understand from the Government that strengthening economic recovery in Galicia must necessarily happen by giving the autonomous more facilities to continue to generate employment and economic activity in that country. With that premise it was how we developed the 2020 Self-Government Strategy, which, as you know, we approved at the beginning of this year 2017. This is one of the fundamental pillars of our Agenda 20 for Employment, and with it we want to help and support the needs of the self-employed and, by extension, to support and strengthen our economy. Each and every of the measures that this Self-Government Strategy 2020 is designed to meet four challenges and four priorities. First of all, to incorporate new people into self-employment; therefore, we need to continue to favour entrepreneurship. But at the same time we need to consolidate the activity and quality of existing employment, of the self-employed who have been fighting for years and decades to get their business forward. That is why we need to simplify and speed up the administrative process. And finally, we also need to facilitate, as far as possible, generational relief as a formula for taking advantage of the knowledge and the veterinary nature of the talent that this sector holds. In short, we want to lift the barriers to the German self-employed, which is easier to develop their activity and that their only concern is precisely to see their business grow. The strategy has an budget of 160 million euros for the next four years, and with it we propose to help 40,000 workers in this collective. I should like to point out that it is a 45% increase in respect of the previous legislation, and this reinforces Galicia's position as the autonomous community with more public support for self-employment, with more than 40 million euros per year by 2020. Of the 20 support initiatives that raise this strategy, half are novices. But the most important thing is that, by 2017, 9 out of every 10 euros of the planned funds are already activated. And it will be at the end of this month when the whole strategy is activated to 100 percent. Today I would like, if I may, to stop the five measures that make Galicia a pioneering community in support of the professional collective of self-government. These are five measures that aim to be the best complement to the measures which the Central Government has already taken and which are allowing, from the perspective of the State's own competences, the autonomous and the autonomous Greeks today already have a much more favourable and much more equal fiscal and social regulatory framework. Logically, with these five measures and the set of self-government strategies, what the Galician Union wants is that autonomous people have a proper complement in those issues where precisely the central government's own strategy needs to be strengthened. Their first goal is to help them consolidate their business. Traditionally, aid to self-employed people was intended for entrepreneurs, those who started their business. In this case, the Government puts a measure, precisely, for those self-employed who already have an age greater than forty-two months; therefore, we will try to help them consolidate this business by strengthening professionalism, reinforcing strategic development and fundamentally strengthening their competitiveness. I am referring to the autonomous bond, which, once the deadline for submission of applications was closed on 31 August, has already received 2,224 applications. It has a budget of 4 million euros, with an aid of up to 3,000 euros that workers and self-employed people can first enable them to professionalize their business. Because through this autonomous bonus they can access financial management services-oriented aids, optimize processes within their business, promote marketing and marketing activities, and also promote their web-based positioning and social networks. Secondly, you can also develop a business improvement plan and redefine the autonomous business model, or also identify new markets or potential partners. As I told you, this is the first time that the Government has launched a specific support measure for self-employed people who have an age greater than three and a half years, which is a clear way to make it easier for them to consolidate and adapt their business to the new demands of the market and the new demands of the consumer. Another measure of silence in this strategy is the six-month extension of the State's flat rate. Last August 24 was published in the Official Journal of Galicia the call for this aid, which has an budget of EUR 3 million, and which we estimate can benefit 6,000 people. Thanks to this initiative, the autonomous Greeks will be able to maintain for half a year more the reduced share of Social Security, paying only 50 euros in this way during their first year of activity. This is an act addressed to those people who believe they would have benefited from State aid this year 2017 and have exhausted it. And it will allow the autonomous and the autonomous Greeks that are constituted as such this year 2017 to have the same treatment as those who do so once the new legislation of the State enters into force, by complying with an agreement adopted in the Bureau of the Self-Government. As you know, from next year onwards, the Greeks and the Greeks who work on their own can still benefit from a flat rate of one year, which, in addition to the particular case of those under 30, and women up to 35 years old, will extend to thirty-six months. It is a measure that will encourage the incorporation of new generations of self-employed but which, above all, will support the progress of their business, because, as you know, this flat rate will be maintained when workers are hired. I was referring to the beginning of my intervention to the resignations that self-employed people have to make from the personal and family point of view, some autonomous people who often have to attend their business 24 hours a day, or 365 days a year. Part of the rights that both the Union's strategy and the Government's Self-Government Act want to recognize them have to do with giving autonomy greater social protection. So that one of the newest proposals on our support line to this collective is to expand in 16 additional weeks the bonus of 100 percent of the share of social security of the hired person when an autonomous or autonomous person has a son or daughter. Through this support, professionals on their own will get compensation to extend for sixteen more weeks to those who replace it in front of the business during the maternity leave period or — and this is another novelty — by parenthood. The paternity or maternity leave for workers and self-employed people will be such a real drop, and it will assume a fundamental step towards equalizing rights with workers on an equal footing. This order will be presented tomorrow to the Galego Labour Relations Council for its ruling. And the forecast is that it will be approved this same month by the Board of Trustees. It is ultimately a way of broadening our commitment to a work framework that enables the reconciliation of working and family life also among the autonomous groups. It's an initiative that complements the fact that self-employed workers who return to work after their maternity leave also enjoy the flat rate for a year. The challenge they face, and that with these measures to Join Galicia, they want to help them cope, is not only to start a business, in the case of self-employed, but, as I said, to make it solvent and to give it continuity. They know that Galicia has the strongest network of family businesses across the state, and somehow what we want is that this culture of business continuity, based precisely on professional experience and business knowledge, can also be transferred to self-employment. We're talking about the self-employed who end their working life and find themselves in the set of having to leave their company to give relief to a new generation. In this case, the Self-Government Strategy envisages a generational relief programme that we are profiling and that we are in line with the associations of the sector; a programme that starts precisely from the need to set up accompanying measures for people who will retire and also for those who will raise them; a programme that will offer a set of instruments that will make the process of generational relief easier, not only through support funding, but especially — and there will be the key to the operation of this programme — through training services and advisory services. We do so convinced that it is a way of taking advantage of the experience gained over years by this collective, but above all it must also provide an opportunity for young people and young people from Greece to enter a job with the advantages of an activity that already has a consolidated trajectory. It's not a simple process, we're fully aware, because it's not, ladies, very easy to match in time the willingness to give continuity to a business by an autonomous, who also knew how to convert into a successful project, with the volunteerism of an entrepreneur who has the ability and illusion to assume it. It's not easy, but I'm convinced that we'll try to get Galicia to have a generational relief program that allows you to move forward towards a more collaborative culture and a culture that supports entrepreneurship. All these measures, all the services of the Generation Relief Program and the various measures that make up this strategy, will be included within the Office of the Self-Government, a measure that is very relevant for autonomouss to have an integrated information point and management point. This Office of the Self is born with the idea that it is a true virtual office, which connects with the electronic headquarters of the Galician Union, which acts as a single window, but above all that it is also a aid processing office that the German Government makes available to professionals; an Office of the Self, ultimately, that has more transparency, more information and better processing of self-government. This whole line of self-sufficient people I've just exposed to is a reinforcement of the traditional aid that the Government has been making available to self-sufficient people this year 2017. I refer to the aid for self-employment and the aid for indefinite recruitment of workers, whose term is open until next October 2nd and which has an budget of 18 million euros. I also talk about aid for the promotion of self-employment among those under 30 who are enrolled in the Youth Guarantee System, which this year is provided with EUR 2.5 million and will allow the aid received by the most young to double those received from the general scheme. I am also talking about aid for the training of the unemployed, an essential training of workers in support of training, and that this year is provided with €22.5 million, but the relevant thing is that it has a specific share of €3.5 million allocated specifically to the self-employed. It is therefore an opportunity for self-employed people, through this training of busy people, to be able to recycle their work curriculum, and thus improve the competitiveness of their business. But in addition to the employment promotion aid, autonomouss also count on the services offered by the Galego Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, and they have at their disposal the Igape, so that, through Igape, they can obtain funding through the various initiatives to develop their business projects; funding lines that also have to reach the autonomy and autonomy of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am done. Few days ago we knew that Galicia was one of seven autonomous communities where unemployment came down last August, specifically the third autonomous community in which it came down most. We were the autonomy in which the social security affiliations went up most, also in August. We have recently known that the Greek economy is now growing at an annual rate of 3.2% above the state average, reaching pre-crisis levels and exceeding the forecasts we had marked from the German Government. They're all symptoms, along with the evolution of exports, that Galicia is on its way to economic recovery, and they're putting us in a more favourable position than a few years ago. But it is also true that the Government cannot fall into conformisms or triumphalisms. The challenge we have now is precisely to consolidate these data, and we have the challenge of helping the Galician companies continue to export, continue to innovate and continue to create quality employment, and in that context also to return incomes to levels prior to the crisis, to contribute to greater well-being and quality of life for our families, and so that recovery also has families as recipients. In this context, in autonomous workers we have a fundamental piece to consolidate economic recovery, and that's why the aim of the Galician Union is to give autonomous people the greatest facilities to undertake and grow, to create a more flexible work environment, with fewer barriers, more incentives and even more equal. Dedicated to them an annual investment of EUR 40 million by 2020 is an additional Government effort, but it is an effort that needs to be targeted precisely so that this collective can also face the challenges of the digital economy and, therefore, to improve the competitiveness of its business models. With a view to Galicia in 2020 today, we took into consideration the Business Implementation Act, which must also be a step further within this objective that self-employed people and our businesses find less jobs, more easily and therefore easier to develop their businesses. So I wanted to conclude with this support and this recognition of what my intervention was starting with for the self-employed. If the crisis has particularly affected some collectives it was precisely in the autonomous ones, but they have been able to save the different difficulties, and now, in this consolidation process, we have to count on them to make the recovery of the Greek economy stronger, and that also means strengthening the support of the autonomous ones. By giving them a final data, since 2009 the business initiatives of less than six months promoted by autonomouss have been doubled in Galicia, and there are almost 9,000 Greeks and Greeks who have been joining and are deciding to start their business on their own, which is 6.3% of the total. It's data that reflects that the autonomous are still the driving force of our economy, and logically, even though we know it's a long road and that we're still far from the end, it's also true that we have the measures to be able to accompany the needs of the autonomous; complementary measures that the Government of Spain has taken. Finally, you have to make this normative framework and this framework of incentives that the autonomous Greeks have at their disposal, whatever enables them to develop their business with less obstacles, more ease, more incentives and also a more equal environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u67	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u68	Good day to all and all. Good morning, Counselor. Many of Galicia's background problems are blocking and impossible to develop. The need to provide them with a real alternative policy is imperative; problems that have led to this situation of backwardness, in which, despite their self-comprehensive speech, Galicia is the result of a disastrous policy of integration into the European Union. Galicia has accumulated problems of decades, of right-wing political disasters, of neoliberal policies, of policies of the People's Party; policies that made Galicia a country more deindustrialized, more dependent, more impoverished and more vulnerable. As it shows, we have the degradation of the social situation and the backwardness of the living conditions of thousands of Galicians and Greeks, who have made Galicia extremely vulnerable and fragile and who express themselves in an aggravated deficit in production, demographic, land planning, infrastructure and public services that make Galicia an extremely exposed and without instruments. And the People's Party continues to deny that Galicia has instruments so that it can act independently, so that it can make decisions that can have a Galicia, of course, the owner of its own, and not a dependent Galicia, in the service of other people's sayings. Today morning, in fact, the People's Party votes in favour of taking into account the law of business implementation, which is a law of a Greek government that desists from such, which ceases to exercise as a Greek government. And as much as bothering Mr. Tellado, the words have meaning, and "colonial" means precisely that: having a country with a government that does not exercise its own, doing all kinds of measures to favor the policy and plunder of our resources. You have just approved the consideration of that law solely for that purpose. We have an economic situation in Galicia that is increasingly dominated by monopolies, large capital, investment funds, venture capital, all these that control the financial system, insurance, telecommunications, the media, food distribution, the large industrial sectors, public services, which you are zealously giving to all these companies at the service of the oligarchy, and in addition to the oligarchy outside of Galicia. It's a big paperboard what you're doing. What I'm telling you, Counselor, is that there is no compatibility between Galicia's needs and the interests of large groups that dominate our economy. And ignoring that reality and pretending that it is possible to have an economic and employment-promoting policy, to promote self-responsive self-reliance. I'm no longer saying they could solve these structural problems, but at least they could put themselves in the direction of trying, and, of course, of their exposure, nothing at all. You gave here a series of data about the employment situation and the self-employed in Galicia, but you gave them who you wanted, and as always, then you redirect them. What didn't happen is that in Galicia today there are July data: 215,455, which is 2,229 less than in July 2016—at 2,229 less than in July 2016!—. And what he doesn't say is that there are 13,221 autonomouss less than in 2009, in which the People's Party returned to the Government of the Union. That data you forgot to give it to them. It was also forgotten to mention that Galicia was one of three autonomous communities in the Spanish state that lost autonomy in the first half of 2017. I'm talking about EPA data. You'll then refer to what data; I'm talking about EPA data, of the only three that have lost autonomy. Also, one data: more than 85% of the self-employed do not exceed the minimum quote base in Galicia. This is no coincidence. If an autonomous pays at least, he knows he'll be retired and benefits at least. Why do they do it? Because it turns out they have some income that doesn't allow them to pay beyond the minimum quote base. What's wrong? That goes up to 90% when we talk about self-employed people who have been discharged for less than five years. It goes up to almost 100% when they're under five years old, and when they're under 40, they're up to 90%. Of course, they're not data to be able to suck. Consequence of this? For in Galicia the autonomous have an average pension of 556 euros — August 2017 data — while in the Spanish state they have an average of 640. It's that 80% retire with pensions that don't reach the minimum wage. That's the reality of self-government in Galicia. And another reality is a very high rotation. You need enough more than 10 memberships to stabilize an autonomous. You know perfectly well that's the data, and we're talking about a reality of poor self-government and self-government, and that's not what the Galego Nationalist Block says here, but it says it's a study carried out by the European Commission annually on employment and social security, which says that for the Spanish state 35% of the autonomous between 35 and 39 years is at risk of poverty. At risk of poverty, you know that this is to be below 60% of the average. And the grave thing is that it is only overcome by Romania, in the European Union, only overcome by Romania! And what is one of the main causes of this impoverishment situation? The European Commission figures it on the alarming situation and proliferation of false autonomy. What are false autonomouss? So all those people who had to be working for businesses, but their labor reforms, what allows these companies to fire them and then force them to quit as self-employed, working for those companies. I'm not Trade, I'm not that kind of work mode where 75% of the job is billed for a company and then they have a consideration of Trade, but it means they're entitled to unemployment, they're entitled to a number of benefits; they're not, they're false autonomous, which means they're poor, they're very poor under a few minimums to develop a minimum quality of life, and so we're talking not only about workers on behalf of the poor, but also about self-employed and self-employed. The data show that the measures promoted by the People's Party did not serve to resolve this situation. And the People's Party comes here today... and I remind you that they're not new, that they're wearing a few pieces of legislation, and they're like they've just discovered the situation of the autonomous. The reality is that neither flat rates nor deductions nor incentives nor quota arrangements have allowed a solution to the situation of autonomous people in Galicia, which, indeed, are 25% of the workers and workers; that is, 1 out of every 4 employees in Galicia are autonomous and have this situation that I have just described to you, Counselor. This data shows that the Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness Act they presented in 2013 was a failure because you have already presented here initiatives and because there are to favor the situation of self-employed people, giving them another name. At other times they rode on the backs of the entrepreneurship as a great mantra. What was that law of the entrepreneurship of 2013, four years ago, Counselor? What's the result? What's the evaluation? When will you come here to give data of what is the result of that question? What is the evaluation of that bill announced to bomb and plate? By the way, what was it about the Self-Employment Council, which was also one of those measures announced with great joy and that seven years later, of course, the information that BNG has is that it is totally inoperative. What did you serve that body for, Counselor? In view of this situation, some of the measures proposed in this Self-Government 2020 strategy are progress, but they are totally insufficient. They're patches to solve the situation I just described. They don't find the main impediments to developing an entrepreneurial activity. They have to deal with a totally deregulated economic system and with the economic policies of the People's Party which, of course, prevent an acquitted context. You in this strategy don't mention that one of the problems of autonomouss is a fragile innovation system, it doesn't talk about which resources are destined for innovation, how much they have lowered those resources, that they have passed from 1% to 0.89%, the lack of access to credit, the dismantling of our financial system, that there are thousands of euros from what they save the Greeks and the Greeks who emigrate from Galicia, who are not at the service of the productive sectors in Galicia, you don't speak of an economic and commercial model that does not favor the consolidation of these projects. This strategy, counselor, instead of focusing on these structural problems, what it does is a type of inconsistent proposals that in many cases have nothing to do with the main objective of solving the problems, but with the objective of getting headlines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u70	Measures to improve employment statistics, Counselor, but not to improve the working and living conditions of self-employed people. They provide favourable conditions for unemployed people to be discharged as self-employed, to be discharged from REA, but not so that they can then continue their activity. And you know this is because you know that the data says that 80% of these entrepreneurs you're told to have all these facilities, at the age of two, die; these projects died at the age of two, and 10% more die at the age of five. That's the real reality: self-employment, self-employment, self-employment, self-employment, self-employment is perceived as a necessity, like a burning nail...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u72	...for many people — finished, Mr. President — but not as a real opportunity. And they last as long as the help to the enterprise lasts. They present, Mr. Counsellor -- let me tell you this -- a short-light strategy; a government's own short-light strategy that seeks to improve statistics but doesn't seek, or much less, to improve the economic and strategic situation of our country, because for that they would have to want to have instruments, and you systematically don't want instruments because I'm a government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u74	...in full prayer to what they tell you from Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, I read on the board's website the Autonomous Strategy 2020, just as I had read the Industrial Implementation Act, in addition to knowing there are search engines in Acrobat Reader... Look, one question, starting with numbers and really. Well, I'm sure you told your students that taking monthly employment data is, at least, methodologically questionable. Social Security affiliations actually increased in Galicia in August more than the Spanish average, very considerably, but in Spain as a whole they increased by 3.5% and Galicia by 2%. So, I think the speech was, in general terms, self-sustaining, and by the way, the number of autonomouss has fallen in the last year -- the last data I have, which are from July -- 10% in Galicia, from 217,684 to 215,455, in case there was some quantitative doubt. Some methodological issues that I think are important. Conceptually treating unequals ends up being always unfair and generating injustices. The world of self-government is an absolutely complex world, where there are differences — and I'm going to focus on that issue — business niches, information levels, access to information, ability to establish business plans -- finally, worlds ranging from vanguard innovation to a startup linked to a research center or a university up to a store of these multi-consumptions in an isolated municipality of inner Galicia. So I think a battery of measures with little functional discrimination is doomed. I don't know if to fail, but I think you need at least to take a look at it, you need a rethink, because, I insist again that the worlds are radically different. Then you also began your intervention by boasting about the high number of autonomouss in Galicia. The correlation is generally unfortunate, Counselor. I tell you, if you want, which is the three countries that have the most autonomous in the European Union, which are Greece, Italy and Poland, and I also tell you which are the three that have the least, namely Sweden, Denmark and Germany. So the correlation that there are many like something positive I personally think does not exist, but in any case, too, perhaps, I would have to give you some other thought, I don't know whether from the Board or with the invaluable help of Mr. Tellado and the Popular Parliamentary Group; it can always be seen as a bill proposal, which we all know is used at times. I'm surprised, for example, at the theme of generational relief. I say I'm surprised that now, I'm surprised, positively, yes, because just three months ago, they voted here against an initiative by the Socialists on this line. So, I know that the way to Damascus is long, that people fall off the horse, that they stick blows on their heads and see the truth revealed, which is very good, but, man!, perhaps, to recognize Caesar what you are from Caesar... for not to continue. Certainly, it is a fundamental theme in this autonomous community, fundamental in a rural legislation, fundamental in an elderly and fundamental autonomous community with an average level of qualification of the population that is much older than the Spanish average, as you well know. Of course, you've focused on the subject in a way that's hard not to share what he says, but I think there's a very important quantitative deficit. You have been ruling, not exactly in that council, but you have been ruling for nine years, or eight years; so I think you now realize that the Germans needed a strategy... Home!, perhaps, it's going with a certain delay, but, I insist, welcome. I think it's little needed and I think that, if you solve the problems of a group of autonomouss, of course, you'll necessarily leave another one alone. Actually, 160 million euros, four years. I have to congratulate you because the figure matches what you gave in June. I recognize that I expected inflation to take place between June and September, but I have to admit that it was exactly the number you gave in June. I'm saying this because normally your government tends to go on growing. We must now have about 200,000 squares from 0 to 3 years, although we only have 60,000 children, but in this case you... well, 160 million euros, which makes it a little bit more credible, certainly. Within this context we were saying to correlate economic success and the weight of self-employed people, for example in the province of Lugo, 41% of the members of the Social Security regime are autonomous, and 33% in Ourense. They're high figures. It's true that they're mediated by the primary sector -- finally, by a lot of variables. But I think we have to turn this issue around because, I repeat, in the weakest link in the chain, in the link of older and more autonomous self-employed, less qualified, etc., what are the general trends in the labour market clearly play against it. I mean, a labour market that in employees is getting more and more irregular -- I don't know if the word likes it or not, but, well, we can call it how they prefer -- with wages down, with a temporality that won't be reduced or with a growth of 3% of GDP -- I think something should reflect on this. What are we doing wrong or what is hurting the economic policy of the People's Party's governments so that, with a rise of 3% of gross domestic product, wage levels are literally frozen and temporality is not reduced. And not all is tourism. It is true that tourism has an implicit temporality, but not everything is tourism. And then, of course, data is not as optimistic as you say. Eighty percent of them don't have employees; that is, we're talking about individual autonomy; with which, doublely weak that step. Eighty percent are on the minimum base, Mrs. Prado said so. It's that they quote from the minimum base because the profit levels are absolutely reduced and that doesn't allow a higher rate. That's the usual behavior. It does not mean that there are no exceptional cases in which, in fact, anyone who could economically afford a higher contribution, by a retirement strategy, which is very respectable, because he does not. But, in principle, this seems to be the fundamental reason. And then there are three questions, Counselor, which I think are the pending subjects of which you have spoken little and which are absolutely relevant. The first is what it has to do with false self-employed people, who are becoming, in this deregulated labour market, a figure that only reduces the labour costs of companies, objectively worsening the qualities of the labour market and the qualities of workers. And something of this necessarily has to happen, because then we see the data on how GDP is distributed between wages and capital yields. Unquestionably, I know that you think I'm too persistent with this data, but I've always been explained to myself about sharing cake, and, well, pies are distributed and distributed in one way or another, and it's not the same as another. So the question of false autonomy. The question of subcontracts and of all those -- which is also directly related to deregulation -- these endless threads that only make the labour market worse, worse working conditions, obviously lowering wage levels -- finally, we continue to move on to these kinds of issues. And then, finally, it is very relevant to the subject of training, of training both on the theme of the most vanguard start-up at the university, where, undoubtedly, I repeat again that macro data do not accompany us, beyond any successful examples, many, I hope they were more!, and I think they should have as much public support as possible — and, of course, the formation of those self-employed with a lower level of start-up training. I want to remind you that while in Europe as a whole professional activities within self-employed people are almost 12%, those in Galicia are a little over half, 7%. I mean, we have a low-grade bias on the level of average qualification that I think it would be essential to go cutting. And then there are two questions. You talked about the Igape. Really, I understand you're there, but... do you really think you're meeting the demands of Galicia's productive fabric? It's a rhetorical question. I know you're not going to tell me no, but give it back, and I know this looks like a juicy, but you really believe it? I... send the quarterly loan data, the loan data, and I know now that the real estate figures are in question, etc., etc., at last... do you think they're meeting the needs? Because, of course, the representatives of the autonomous associations say no and the entrepreneurs complain. I don't know if only if they complain about the opposition and tell you that everything is going well, that it's also possible! but, of course, the inputs that come to us are that the system is slow and doesn't meet the expectations, and I repeat that when I say it's slow I don't mean that they privatize you, eh!, I mean that they hire people, I mean that the public domain reaches a percentage of GDP like the ones that have those countries that you legitimately talk about and the ones you want to look at.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u78	Therefore, I believe that funding and training are two fundamental issues, without any doubt, because they are directly related to the other subject, and in principle I understand that the 2020 Self-Government Strategy would be what I would try to avoid, which is the low duration of autonomous experiences or business. I mean, 80 percent of the new autonomouss don't last more than two years is a very low expectation, and I think that this should actually be the goal: decent working and wage conditions, but especially stay in time, because that's what allows you to get and consolidate niches of the market and that's what allows you to increase profits. The other may be either punctual speculations or conjunctural speculations, but I've always defended the structure a little more, I suppose by ideological bias. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u79	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u80	Good morning. Paraphrasing a TV show: "They've heard the government; now we're going to tell them the truth." In part, it was well explained by the spokespersons of the BNG and the Socialist Party, and I will look for a gap within that data. First I'll give you the balance, Counselor. Since you rule, there are 34,400 workers on your own. That would be the synthetic, quantitative balance, which would speak of failure: 34,400 minus today, four years of economic recovery, in the middle of the great recession of 2009. The second, Counselor, surprised me, eh! for I think that counsellor usually speaks precisely. He assumed the average payment period data for suppliers in Galicia. I have here — and I give it to you — the report by the National Federation — they are called, which I suppose is state — by Associations of Self-Employers — to ATA —: Report on Morosity, first half of 2017. The report states that the average payment period for the autonomous inhabitants of the Autonomous Community is 64 days. This is twice what makes the Law of Morosity. Second, the average period in Spain, in the Spanish State, is 54 days. Therefore, Galicia is the third largest community paying the self-employed in the Spanish State. And do you know who says that? Lorenzo Amor, I don't know if you know he's a member of the People's Party. That's the synthetic balance of the quantitative result, and of what you assume. It's true that Galicia is the autonomous community that has a greater weight of self-employed people, 22% of people work on their own. But, as you said here, is this positive? Is there any advantage to our country? Is it something to boast? No, it's the other way around. When analyzing the structure of employment, it is verified that it is the less developed autonomous communities that have the most self-employed, and the most developed autonomous communities, which have the highest income and which have the least weight of self-employment. And when the focus is opened to the whole of Europe, the result is what Abel Losada told. I'm synthesizing it in one figure: in Galicia 1 out of every 5 busy is autonomous and in Denmark 1 out of every 15. I'll give you a date, too. I bet with you that in Cairo there are many more autonomous workers than in New York or Berlin, because that self-employed model has a part that corresponds to business projects and another very relevant part that is the response to a desperate unemployment situation. It is true that in Galicia — also said — the formula of ownership and the weight of the primary sector in the economy make the weight of self-employment superior to that of the state as a whole. But the fundamental reason that leads people in the Spanish state and Galicia to become autonomous is not to find decent wage employment in terms of working conditions and decent wages. We're not talking about conviction, about entrepreneurship. Self-employment in many cases is only a desperate attempt to get out of a unemployment situation, especially in those who have been unemployed longer and are already older. And this is a fundamental criticism of the 2020 Autonomous Strategy of the Galician Union, which generally encourages without taking into account the motivations behind these business initiatives. There's no segmented policy with different responses to different realities, and that causes a scenario full of problems, because under the label of entrepreneurship, very worrying realities are hidden. I'm going to give you two data from what you've already talked about here, one from Eurostat. Eurostat says that 28% of self-employed people in Spain are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. In employed workers and workers, that rate of poverty, that risk of poverty, is 12%. This means that self-employed people have a risk of poverty that doubles that of wage earners; these are in Galicia 60,000 people who have so low incomes that they are below the poverty line. The second data was said here, and it's possibly the most worrying, the most revealing, because it affects not only a part of the collective, not only for a time in his life, but it's a life sentence. Counsellor, as already mentioned, the average retirement pension for self-employed people in Galicia is 556 euros, while the average pension for a worker in the general scheme is 904 euros, almost twice as much. Counsellor, is 556 euros a decent pension? Can a person live properly with 556 euros of pension? Can a government boast that this is the reality? That reality reflects, in addition, perfectly what is the level of income that self-employed people have and, therefore, the basis for contributions by those who pay and then determine their pension. Is this the business model you're defending? When you analyze, you see that the analysis of the Greek economy shows that one of the problems we have is the business mini-fund, the abusive weight of micro-enterprises. 83% of Galician companies do not reach 2 employees. So the question is not to continue to encourage the emergence of new business initiatives without analyzing their viability. The Government's strategy had to be exactly the opposite, as they certainly say in other documents: looking for elements of business concentration that allow a productive structure, with large companies, to allow decent wage employment; more competitive companies. Policies for employment cannot be generalized, they cannot be indiscriminate. Social economy enterprises, self-employed people, local business initiatives are different, as has been said here, and there are some that must be supported and others that should not be supported, Counsellor, because within self-employment there are realities that must be fought by the public sector, because they are the most frequent practices of false autonomy. This is the strategy of many companies, of large companies that want to go through commercial relationships, which is really a labor relationship. That's a strategy reinforced by labour reform of a chain subcontracting model that's used by large companies in transport, communication, energy, commerce, distribution, hospitality, construction: changing employment contracts by commodity contracts, with severe consequences for the working class. I don't have time, but I read to you a few — headlines from the Greek newspapers — "More than 20,000 Greeks agree to be false autonomous to have a job"; "A great Greek food company" -- I won't give the name— "counted 160 false autonomouss"; "The Supreme gives the reason to three false autonomouss of Lugo hired by Zardoya Otis." "Satse" — the nursing union — "warning fixeds to be false autonomous." We're talking about a subcontracting model that requires extreme precariousness, because it transfers all business risk to the weakest part. Changing a model of employment contract for a business contract is to eliminate all labour rights from one blow: no salary, no vacation, no sick leave, no right to unemployment, no schedule, no right to training, no right to strike, no right to collective bargaining. And you're partners in that process. Do we encourage that? Do we give money to the self-employed who work for Telephonic so that Telephonic earns more money even with the indirect grant of the Galician Board? Obviously — it went fast — the current model of generalized incentives leads to frustration. The advisor has been linked to the membership data. I'm going to tell you, between January and August in Galicia, they took off on the autonomous regime of 20,457 people. It might seem like a success, but do you know how many were discharged in that same period? Low 20.448. In eight months, the difference between the highs, the people who risked their money by setting up a business, and the lows, the people who lost all the money in that business, are 9 people. One a month. We're talking about a policy that encourages an autonomous more per month in the fourth year of economic recovery. And, sir, Counselor, starting a business with the 50-euro fee sign, it's easy. The pain, the destruction of capital, is when to close that business. I was talking to a colleague from En Marea who was autonomous, business initiative. He's out, he's out... a fellow who's here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's out owes himself a piece of euro. This indiscriminate policy that cannot be pursued, that does not take into account what the realities are, that really supports what entrepreneurship is and is not an accomplice to precariousness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u82	I'm done. Einstein said that madness is doing the same things thinking that the results are going to be different. What we describe here is the Socialist Party, the BNG and the Marea describe a broad part of reality. And what they do in Strategy 2020 is they continue to apply the same thing that will make all these problems worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u83	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to begin my intervention by, like the councillor himself, a recognition of the entire People's Parliamentary Group, a sincere recognition of these approximately 225,000 self-employed and self-employed people in Galicia. The counselor said it, almost 1 out of every 4 workers. They are people who risk every day everything they have; they face their personal heritage and their efforts on many occasions to excessive bureaucracy; they pay their taxes sometimes more punctually than they receive their income, and they give up much in their lives to advance their dream and their family. For all of them, of course, our recognition. That is why we regret that the adviser comes to the parliamentary headquarters to present a battery of measures which are envisaged within this strategy and that none of the opposition groups was able to speak of any of the measures that the councillor announced to benefit all these self-employed. And it also conveys to them that as a party, but also as a parliamentary group that supports the Government, we understand their feeling that in the midst of the crisis it was the worst that happened, but of course I also have to remind those who preceded me in the speaking turn that this crisis also had parents and mothers. And that, of course, of the abstract crisis from some parties does not stop being curious. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They were hard times in which everyone touched us all to make sacrifices, and to them, to the autonomous, possibly more than anyone. That's why the councillor is representing the Government and the People's Group is here today to explain some of those measures that they might have deserved long before, but that the crisis situation has not allowed to develop until economic recovery has improved the administrations' situation. We have this commitment and we would like someone else in this Parliament to acquire it too, and if we are in addition to that commitment to make proposals to improve the quality of life and employment of our own self-employed people. I believe that in the House we have seen the attitude of the different groups, and I think, Counselor, that if anyone can count on PSOE, because the rest of them who come here is to criticize the Government directly and not propose anything at all. I think the tone of the Socialist Group was quite different. Counsellor, you have said on this and other occasions you hope to work and negotiate with the rest of the parliamentary groups. I wish I could! I wish the Socialist Party's intervention indicated that they really want to make proposals. But what do you want me to say? With all due respect, Counselor, don't wait too long. I say it with all due respect, but I also say it with sadness: don't wait too long. Don't expect much of an opposition that's equal or worse than September 26, 2016, September 26, 2016, that's been hit by the election result and that's still looking at itself with the clock stopped. That little reflection of the opposition groups, we listen to them every day. Don't expect anything or expect very little from BNG because the only thing we've heard from them in the last few weeks is that they want to copy in Galicia a show like Catalonia. That's your model. They want to take Galicia to that confrontation that nothing produces and that everything stops. Nationalists prefer to talk about independence; they prefer to talk about coupons, even if it costs us money to Galicia; and they prefer to sink our country into political instability. That they know a lot, because that's what they did when they ruled the Bipartite here in Galicia. Political instability before the issues that truly concern the vast majority of the Greeks. Wait a minute for the Socialist Party, which is very busy and very concerned about these internal struggles to see who's the one who shouts the strongest "in you in." That's what they're interested in. They're looking for those who publish something on the social networks from the official accounts, and the truth is they're involved in that North-South war that starring Mr. Bester and Mr. Abel Caballero, in the dirty twitter war and the personal criticisms, and they're involved in seeing who's the most official of the officers, but they're all in him. That's the Socialist Party's militancy. Mr. Losada, I'll propose something. You, who used the searcher instead of reading the Business Push Act, I suggest you use the same searcher again but with your electoral program, and tell me how many times the word appears autonomous. Not a single one, not a single one! Do you know why the word "autonomous" appears in the Socialist Party electoral program? To refer to autonomous bodies. That's the reality. And you yourself said it's hard not to share what the counselor said. [[Applause]] Man, if you share what the counselor said, support the Government! because it's a message that all of Galicians will understand. They support the Government in the drive for measures to support the self-employed. Look, we're not improvising. We support a law of entrepreneurship in Galicia in 2013, and now we bring this 2020 Autonomous Strategy, which is continuity of the same line of work. Look, Counselor, don't expect anything from the Tides of Podemos because, until December, we'll only know if the mayors conspire against Villares, if Villares resists, if there are a few who will mount a split. No serious proposals. They're just going to vote "you're not in," just like the rest of the parties. But thinking about it, maybe it's better that they have nothing to say and nothing to do in the Self-Government Strategy, because I don't know what it can do about self-government a party whose number two is Echenique, and we all know what Mr. Echenique's self-employment model is. Don't wait too long, don't wait too long. [[Applause]] And we know what they think about the self-employed, because Mrs Sánchez said that the self-employed were self-exploitors. Look, I'd ask them a little respect for Galician autonomy. Mr. Lago, about the advisor's measures, nothing at all, you didn't speak. As there is a second round, I hope that on that second round we will talk about the concrete measures announced by the councillor. And about the false autonomous, what do you mean? That, indeed, I am a concern to all, also to the Government of the Council of Galicia, also to the majority group, but you tell the mayors of the Tide, that in the cities where they govern they hire signatures of the founding manifests as autonomous to put them to the service of their governments. So they have to teach them their own lessons. If we put all these elements in a batterer, that's the opposition we have here in the Galician Parliament. The three minority groups don't care as much about the problems of the self-employed, whether the employers or the workers. They're too busy with their own problems, with their own struggles, and without assuming the election result. Today the councillor presents a document marking a course, which is what has to guide us to the end of the legislation in what has to do with support for self-government in Galicia. But we would be wrong if we thought that with this battery of measures everything would be done, because it's not true; because we have to keep doing things, and because it would be good that concrete proposals from the opposition groups would appear that could be incorporated into this strategy. So we'd like to hear what they say about the proposals announced by the advisor and if they can be improved, if with the resources that there are we can do more. We must continue on this path, the way to eliminate all unnecessary administrative obstacles; the way to speed up the payment of public administrations; the way to alleviate fiscal pressure; the way to encourage reconciliation also of self-employed workers; the way to ensure generational relief, which is one of the key issues for this collective; ultimately, to make their life a little simpler, because they deserve it and why they need it; and therefore we must act in that direction. As we said, there are 225,000 autonomouss in Galicia waiting for our proposals, waiting for our measures, and we'd like them to be many more, many more autonomous, and that everyone who wants to engage in our land has a red carpet to do so, to form and grow their own business. We would also like to find on the other side of the parliamentary arch some hand held to improve the conditions of these workers, but in that, as I said, Mr. Counselor, do not expect anything or expect little more. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u85	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I wanted to move is to thank the speeches of the various parliamentary groups, and therefore the possibility that we can effectively open here, in this House, a debate to identify the measures that can benefit a collective which, from a quantitative point of view, we agree that it is important in Galicia, but above all, it is important for what it brings in terms of job creation and entrepreneurship. It is true that it would be good to focus the debate on the different measures, on how these measures can be improved, and even on some additional measure, because, if not, in some case, we could simply be left in a description rather than in a proactive way. In any case, I'll have the opportunity to respond to the different contributions and suggestions that have been moved. In the case of the BNG I am surprised, Mrs Prado, who now suddenly says they want to take a zero-point initiative, and you never supported the Government in Madrid. You were passing by, and when we had to support the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Madrid, that's what we've forgotten about now. It is interesting that you talk about integration into the European Union, about neoliberal policies, when you were in Madrid supporting this kind of policy. Therefore, man! at least a little memory and at least a little coherence from the point of view of the measures they have supported in Madrid and those now seem to want to deny here in Galicia. In any case, I think today a law was taken into consideration. The truth is, there was no reference to the content of the law in his partner's intervention. And with regard to generalist comments and common places, all of them. But look, I remind you that when the Act of Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness was passed in this Parliament, you voted no. And I remind you that in that law, municipal licenses were generally eliminated, and now autonomous and business people are benefiting, because there are many projects that accumulate in the offices of different administrations, in particular the local administration, which now, thanks to prior communication, can be activated much more easily. I don't know what the final position the Galego Nationalist Block is going to adopt with the Business Implementation Promotion Act, but I would like at least to have the content valued and told us, that they told the Greeks, why they don't want to facilitate the simplification of bureaucratic procedures, strictly keeping all the sectoral reports and all the guarantees that they are currently collecting legislation. So if we want to support the self-employed, Mrs Prado, we must make it easier for administrative procedures to be easier. I think they didn't act in accordance with the interests of the business sector and the self-employed sector when they voted against the Entrepreneurship Act, and I hope that they will now have an opportunity when we address the Entrepreneurship Act. In any case, you moved me that the measures are insufficient and even doubted whether in this case the Igape provided or had access to the different funding lines. Look, we opened the Igape to autonomouss, and autonomouss today can access the various help lines, funding, both microcredit and interest-type bonuses, and autonomouss can also turn to the various help of business initiatives through Galicia Entrepreneur and Galicia Entrepreneur Rural. The innovative financial instruments that will be put in place over the next few weeks will also allow the autonomous to access specific funding lines to improve their innovation projects, to improve the modernisation of their business. In short, Your Honor, I sincerely believe that there is an opportunity there and, logically, we continue to add opportunities also so that the self-employed have more ease. You talk to me too -- and they referred to that the rest of the opposition's parliamentary spokespersons -- that the self-assessment base, which is about 80%, is quoted on a minimum basis. It's true, but it's true that in Spain it's 86%. Galicia has a very high percentage of self-employed people who are quoted for the minimum base, but it's true that this percentage is much lower than the average of Spain. So we have to keep improving in that direction, but, of course, the reality is, when we do the comparison, logically Galicia, I say, has a much lower percentage of autonomouss that count for that minimum base. Finally, I think the Government in no way... I don't know why that theme is common places. I understand that, because your party lives in common places, but I don't know why they say this government prays to Madrid. Madrid takes its decisions — by the way, supported by most parliamentary groups — and Galicia complements these initiatives. If you want to bring this to the debate, bring the debate if we really need some kind of additional measure, but that generality of which we simply pray... Your Honor, we do not pray, we are committed to giving solutions, in this case to the autonomous. Mr. Losada, I appreciate that positive vision of the Strategy itself, which you have reflected here. I agree with you — just as I agree with Mr Lago — that we have to prioritize. True, autonomy is a very heterogeneous collective and therefore it's very difficult to respond to each of these realities. We must therefore prioritize the type of entrepreneurship, the type of self-employed activities we want to encourage. And there I agree again that there is a fundamental element, which is in the Strategy, in which we have to continue to deepen, which is training; training not only busy, but also the formation of entrepreneurship projects, through that network of accelerators that has been able to support 500 business projects in recent years. And the main work that these accelerators do and which favor the development of startups and other types of initiatives is, precisely, counselling and training, so that autonomouss can conform to the best possible project for their development on the market. That is where we have to sink, just as we have to sink — in some way more indirect, but they have also moved it — and foster innovation and we have to favor digitisation, because that innovation and digitisation are not only conditioned by the development of new products, but are conditioned by the demand of consumers themselves. So we fully agree with the Socialist Party and with En Marea that we have to prioritize and, therefore, we must focus on transversal initiatives in the development of training, in the development of digitisation and in the development of innovation towards self-government. I also thank you for your reflection on the weight of the autonomouss in Galicia. Mr. Lago also referred to her, and Mrs. Prado. I remind you that in 2008 and 2009 it was the same percentage, and therefore, it is true that it is part, in some way, of a structural situation in our economy, where it is true that the weight of the primary sector, both in the sea sector and in the rural sector and in the forest sector, logically, is conditioned in some way that this weight of the primary sector is also reflected in a larger percentage that have other autonomys or that have other countries. But it is true that we have to make that reflection and therefore see how first of all we prioritize the type of self-employment we want to promote, but at the same time logically strengthen the autonomous ones we have in Galicia, and somehow the Strategy has to respond to that quantitative weight that this collective currently has, as I said, in Galicia. Finally, we must continue to support the different elements. You also made reference to the Igape, Mr. Losada. I have already moved that, indeed, the Igape is opening up to the autonomous. I think that's a fundamental step, because the vision of self-employed people has to be not only in employment, but also in economic development, and therefore in Igape, through the various funding aids, there has to be important support. Mr. Lago was asking me the balance, he's been comparing me since 2009. I didn't make that comparison with all intents and intentions, because it's true that there's less autonomy than in 2009. It's also true, if we want to do that kind of reading, that in 2009 Galicia lost 7,500 memberships on its own, and it's true that since January we have about a thousand more, 747. So I didn't want to make that comparison, but, if we do that reading, today in Galicia, with respect to the year 2009, we have more autonomous integrated into cooperative commercial societies or other corporate entities, in particular over 4 points than with respect to the year 2009. We have more autonomous employees who work with employees, which is a very important way of promoting job creation, we have more autonomous under 55 years of age, we have more autonomous with new businesses, and we have more autonomous people who run above the minimum base. Finally, we have an improvement scenario, but insufficient, and therefore we need to develop measures to strengthen their position within the market. You told me about the payment data to the suppliers, and you told me about the Board's rigor. I gave him the data from the Ministry of Finance, and you reflect the data from a survey. All the statistical elements have to be taken into account, but I believe that in this House we should refer ourselves in general — especially when we have them — to statistics, and in the official statistics of the Ministry of Finance we see that Galicia is the fourth autonomous community that pays its suppliers more swiftly and therefore Galicia is paying 23 days faster than the national average. The data you reflect from ATA is correct, but it is also fair to transfer to this House which is an inquiry into the official data that I have transferred to you in my intervention. As I said, I agree with your position that support for self-employed people must also be accompanied by a model of entrepreneurship. I did not talk here about that model of entrepreneurship and that production model that we are developing in terms of innovation, in terms of support for digitisation and in terms of support for industry 4.0, but I agree that we have to favour an increase in business size in Galicia. I don't know — certainly picking up your partner's intervention here — if they have to be as big as they are then too big and so we have to do another kind of biased readings about economic reality in Galicia, but it's true that Galicia needs to have a bigger business sector, and so when we're supporting self-government and when we're supporting entrepreneurs, we have to prioritize and certainly support those projects that have a greater scalability for the future. And when an enterprise project is presented and a startup is presented, where we have to be, is precisely with that vision of scalability and, therefore, with the possibility that autonomy also reinforces business size. That is why one of the initiatives that is having the greatest response from the self-employed is precisely to encourage the recruitment of self-employed people, which is a way of supporting self-employed people so they can grow in their business. So these are a number of measures, as I say, that they try, through this strategy, to give an answer to the autonomy. Of course, I believe that in this House, logically with the responsibility of government that we have to bring this Strategy and the different measures that we can work on in the future, we have to try — and that is what we are trying to do — to respond to the 2020 Self-Government Strategy — and we have to work to make it easier for the self-employed to have less bureaucratic jobs, so they have to take less taxes, so they have more rights and there is greater social protection. That's the goal. I think it must be a shared goal. We must therefore make every effort, from the point of view of the Government, but also from the point of view of the parliamentary debate, to respond to a reality, which is that of the autonomous ones and so that the autonomous ones continue to add in job creation and economic growth to the economy of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u87	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u88	Well, I'm sorry Mr. Tellado isn't here, because, as you called us in, I'll answer. First, I think he's confused with that double function he's got. He thought he was in a press round as a spokesperson for the People's Party talking about the political situation and opposition, and I think it was a counselor's appearance, but, well, there he is! And he said what our proposals were, which you also repeated, Counselor. One defended it this morning by the national spokesperson for the BNG: having instruments to act. And what was the response of the People's Party? To vote against. The BNG has brought to this House many proposals for Galicia to be the owner of its own, so that we can make our decisions, so that we do not have to ask the master for permission to develop our country, not to be at the service of the interests of the Madrid oligarchy, instead of being at the service of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And what does the People's Party do? [[Applause]] To vote against. BNG proposals: model of financing, concert, defended this morning, and voted against; electric tariff, so that a resource such as electricity returns to the benefit of the economic fabric and of the Greeks and the Greeks, what does the People's Party do? To vote against. Within nothing will an ILP come here for your vote, and to see what the People's Party will do. Own financial system, a Welsh public bank, what does the People's Party do? Well, no. Control of our infrastructure, of AP-9, to be the owner of our destiny... those are the proposals that BNG makes instead of the scarce and insufficient patches that the People's Party makes. We have more proposals, abundant. If they want, we can bring them. Because at the BNG we want to be owners of our destiny, that the Greeks and the Greeks are the owners of our destiny, of their destiny, and not at the expense of what they let us do. And, Counselor, Mr. Count, you lost a chance of gold not coming in the morning to defend you the bill, to do things as you have to do them, and not steal all the reports you had to bring the law to bring it through the back door. And I had to come here to explain in that bill because what is the production model you have for Galicia? He lost a chance of gold. What is the model of industrialization that you defend for our country? What model of closure of productive sectors do you have? What proposals does the People's Party have for this closure of the productive sectors, for creating jobs, economics, development in our country? What kind of workers do you want for our country, Counselor? He lost a chance of gold, but they used to do things like this, through the back door, and without the law coming with the reports that they have to swallow. Because I also said at the beginning of my other intervention that the situation of Galicia, of vulnerability, of structural fragility, of lack of instruments to act, makes us continually at the dawn of what happens elsewhere and of the decisions that others make. And so, of course, he does not exercise a government that wants to be the Government of Galicia. Of course, you've for some time given up as a Government of Galicia. I'm that administrative delegation, and I'm glad you're with her. The fact that the self-employed in Galicia do nothing but descend, Mr. Conde, and that they are indeed so important in the set of workers — as they have already said — is not to boast. On the contrary, it means there's not a production model or a model of development itself, and you're the only one who's been doing year after year, legislating after law, that's telling people, "Look for life, look for life and start." And, as a result of that policy, they give the data I told you before. And in a context where the state as a whole is increasing the number of autonomouss, it means that those measures that you have put in place, that amount of resources, millions, important, of course, are not based on planning and economic model for Galicia, are based solely on what we do. And the fundamental concerns of self-employed people in Galicia, Counsellor, are those I told you before: that there are no models of development based on issues such as R & D, the lack of access to credit, which remains one of the greatest concerns and the greatest problems of self-employed people in Galicia, the lack of access to credit. That design and financial concentration, which made Galicia practically the most important sectors of Galician and Galician, including the autonomous, are excluded from the financing system, is their responsibility. And none of these measures are envisaged. One concern for the self-employed is the reform of the RETA, Counsellor. Do you think it's normal for a self-employed person to have a business in any village to pay the same as a real estate registrar in one of the big cities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u90	Does it seem to you that this is a fair system and that it can, with that burden, develop its activity? Well, of course, at the BNG we say no, just like they say we don't. He told me the truth, Mr Tellado, now that he has returned, said that the autonomouss were waiting for the People's Party's proposals. He said one of the few truths he said here, that they are waiting for his proposals. Because in both past legislations they didn't have any, nor were they able to get them out of the well they're in. Actually, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u92	With which, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counsellor, the proposals put on the table by the Nationalist Block Galego are proposed to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u94	...to develop a country economically and, of course, also to improve the quality of life and the labor situation of self-employed people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u95	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u96	And, of course, these you put on are mere patches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u97	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, Mr. Tellado, I shall begin with the spokesperson of the People's Party. Look, the Socialist Party, in relation to the self-employed, has an advantage, which is that we have laws adopted when we ruled: in 2007, the Self-Government Act of that year, and the law that regulates the end-of-activity benefit in 2010. They used to rule those of the "The Soto of the Real Corporation", who said that Spain was going well, but they forgot about the autonomy. Then you better not talk. [[Applause]] And, by the way, you've missed the information, because all of this is what appears in both programs, both the state... yes, look, you'll forgive me: "Spain is a country for self-employed, self-employed and small businessmen..." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not at all, man! Galicia, Galicia, too. Yes, yes, yes... "Entrepreneurship space, enterprising ticket, Self-employment Statute, Entrepreneurship Law, Galician Self-Employment Council..." It has a bad Acrobat, it has to review the Acrobat. The advantage of being able to read is that we have it here. [[Applause]] Then there's another question. I'm glad he came back. This one was going to say the same thing because I saw such complicities, logically, in his group when he talked about the mothers and parents of the economic crisis. How do I tell you what they are? Look, in 1980, "The State is..." Yes, I'm going back, I'm going all the way I want. "The state is the problem and not the solution." We're deregulated and we're done exactly as we're done. We all know what the outcome was. We realize, in Western countries, that the right can only compete through wages by importing nothing about the working conditions and the living conditions of the workers. And when this leads to a drop in demand and lowers the performance accounts of large companies, they're going to put stalemates on the public sector, which is what's left of them. This is the crisis, Mr Tellado, this one, synthesizing a lot, is the crisis. And of course he has parents and mothers, and it's you, eh! As much as they repeat it, it's you. [[Applause]] Counselor, I'm going to the autonomous. As it says, a popular saying, not a bad word or a good deed. It's a kind remark, dear. Let's see, it's obvious that the overrepresentation of autonomouss in the productive tissue is related to high unemployment rates and to low-powered companies in terms of size or external projection. This is a fact that is generally so, I think it's accepted in general terms. He acknowledged — I believe that for the first time, and it is an objective fact — that the average size of the Greek companies is low, or that it should increase. It's obvious. So I'd like to know what measures to increase that average size. Because — I repeat again — I am not talking about innovation and R & D again. Because I repeat again that Ukraine and Turkey... I know I've said it many times, but, finally, the data unfortunately remains there. I recommend, if you don't read it — that perhaps you read it — a book. I also recommend that Mr. Tellado. It's called The Entrepreneur State, an Italian teacher who teaches in Essex, about the role of public policies in innovation and entrepreneurship. And it basically requires two things. It requires a sustained financial effort in time, premise without which not. And obviously the clippings are obvious. You weren't, but President Feijóo was the other day at the opening of the university course, and he heard the Rectors' claims saying that the cuts in research and innovation were making it extremely difficult for one of the university facets — probably not the only one — I think teaching too — that, of course, is that of research. So, on the one hand, that financial effort. And, on the other hand, legal and institutional stability. It's the two big legs, the two big supports, on the subject of entrepreneurship. And it goes for the small trade of a village as for the startup of the last technological frontier. Well, we discussed a bill this morning, and I tried to sequencing everything you're carrying -- that would be, in musical terms, variations on the same subject -- on this matter. Is there any idea about the enterprise that goes beyond deregulation? I'd like to know. Because if there's only that, I don't want to be a model. I know it's ideology, but I claim ideology. If the only model is what is called "facilitating the development of economic activities by favoring the voluntary declarations of the capital — by calling it somehow — in the face of an administration that weakens months and years a year," we're on our way to the jungle. And then don't ask who's the father and mother of the economic crises, don't ask who's the father and mother of the environmental crises. Counselor, this is what we have to talk about, or this is what I think we should talk about. So, finally... I'm worried about another subject, too, which you referred to. It is true that the primary sector overrepresents the self-employed, but it is paying attention to the secondary sector, to the industrial sector, because it is clear that many industrial employees are becoming false self-employed. And that means worse working conditions and wages always, always, or almost always. I don't know if maybe Mr. Tellado has a different experience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u100	But in general, almost always. And look, I like written media, they're little audiovisual. We have the lowest average autonomous retirement in Spain. I think you have to take a walk. Anyway, look at me with surprise face. I suppose the journalist who signed it, who tells me that in economics he knows something, because he would collect the data well. The last one. Indeed, Counsellor, it is the budgets that define political priorities. And the game, the 751.A trade management program, was reduced between 2010 and 2017 -- I have here the data, as it were -- 50%. It's true that in recent years it has grown a little.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u101	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u102	And not running 40 million euros. And we're not talking about R & D, and we're not talking about Igape.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u104	Therefore, Counselor, some good deed, budgeted, and executed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u105	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u106	I started the parliamentary course today with enthusiasm, because in the debates, until Tellado arrived, I saw level in the different groups, he spoke of the country. I didn't hear any insults, no insults. Tellado arrived, and ordered to stop. Suddenly, the House is no longer a democratic parliament to become a bar where the parliamentary debate is replaced by the lodazal. The arguments disappeared and the insults appeared. [[Applause]] Between insult and insult, between excruciating and excruciating, Mr. Tellado... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u107	Mr. Lago, I haven't heard any insults. Mr. Lago, I didn't notice them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u108	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u109	No, insults I didn't notice. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! I'm talking to Mr. Lago. I perceived no insults, I perceived a debate that would, perhaps, a little out of the question, but a little out of the question, nothing more. [[Strong murmurers.]] That's it, that's it, that's it. Then he got back to the subject quickly. But insults, honestly, I didn't perceive. In any case, continue, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u110	Well, between exaggerating and exaggerating the general secretary of the People's Party, they tell us what democracy is like. [[Applause]] Because he meant what the role of the opposition has to be. I understand perfectly well that the secretary-general of a party founded by Franco ministers doesn't understand how democracy works. I'm going to give you a simple lesson: the government rules and the opposition makes opposition. [[Applause]] It's that simple. And if the Government is unable to rule, if it has no ideas, it has no plans, if it has a failed policy, let it, let it give up, let it govern others. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let us return to the parliamentary debate, let us leave the bar, let us leave the bar, let us respect Parliament. We like self-employment. We support local business initiatives, social economy formulas, small and medium-sized enterprises linked to their territory. We like the family businesses in this country. So when we look at the measures of the 2020 Self-Government Strategy, we do not agree with them because they are essentially referred, as we have already said, to people starting their activity, but they forget the vast majority of the self-government, as it became clear when the advisor explained what those measures were. In that sense, we propose a radical change in the orientation of this failed policy, a reorientation that has to direct the policies of promoting small and medium-sized enterprises, of self-employed people, to the whole of the collective and not just those that begin. By saying three or four fundamental elements, the first is that the model cannot be the generalized public subsidy, that cannot be the key to action to encourage companies. You know that, Counselor. And so far that is the key piece: to encourage through a grant the first year of business activity. And that's a failed strategy. It is necessary to act by solving the real problems facing small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, but for that we need a competent government, because it is more complex than giving grants. We need to analyze sectors and activities, negotiate and agree with self-government organisations, define medium- and long-term strategies, facilitate business activity. Beyond the debate — which goes a little beyond the competences of the autonomous Government — of taxation and contributions, when one talks to the sector are four fundamental problems they have. And the answer to those problems should be the axis of Strategy 2020. In particular, self-employed people have a problem of invoicing, of turnover, which has to do with the weakness of domestic demand, because they are companies that are dedicated exclusively to a local proximity market, and therefore wage devaluation policies, to encourage competition to export more, have very negative consequences in that sector. So a change in income policy that will improve business demand. The second is the enormous difficulty that small and medium-sized businesses in this country have in accessing funding. And more and more, because, as the entities that historically financed this country disappear and we remain in the hands of a financial oligopolise, they have more difficulty in financing themselves. The third is the difficulties they have to access, Counsellor, to public tenders. The Union's policy is increasingly to make larger packages, which make it difficult and make the companies that win the competitions multinational. They're multinationals in cleaning, watching, security... places linked to the public area where there could be support for these sectors, the big capital. And finally, I end with the topic of what I open the debate, with the laziness of the big companies for those who work, including public administrations. This is an intolerable element. The self-employed, small and medium-sized companies, in that subcontracting chain where many businesses are organized, charge 180 days, 200 days, taxed by large companies, who have to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, autonomous ones. With your own resources you have to fund that huge financial burden...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u112	...that sometimes invalidates the business. And I say, ATA's report reflects that this is the opinion of the autonomous Greeks, who say that this is the period of change. Counsellor, we really discussed what would be the strategy of the self-employed, who has to go far beyond the short-term subsidy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u113	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. In my previous reply, in taking into account the Business Push Act, I regretted that the three opposition groups were doing a great exercise of hypocrisy. But, as you are always able to overcome, the truth is, they came to this audience to rejoice in that hypocrisy and walk through it to all the Greeks. That's what we saw right now. Counsellor, is there not a hypocrisy exercise that the Socialist Party wants to give us lessons in job creation? They found Spain with two million unemployed and left Spain with five million. [[Applause]] And they ask who's the father and mother of the crisis. His father's name is Zapatero, and his mother's name is Tourin and you worked very closely with him. [[Laughter]] In that 2008 campaign, when everyone knew they were sinking Spain, their motto was, "To get the full job," Mr. Losada, to get the full job. Counsellor, does it not seem like an exercise of hypocrisy that the partners of those governments, the nationalists of the BNG — who supported them in Congress — say they now have the recipe to create jobs? Man, if they had it, why didn't they use it? Because they were government and they didn't. Hypocrisy! And don't you think it's an exercise of hypocrisy on the Red Seas of Podemos, that they didn't put a single proposal on the table on this subject? Of course it's hypocrisy, but we already know that that's your speech, that of opposition to everything. Because when they rule, the best thing for them is to do nothing, nothing, and there are all the municipalities, as Mrs. Carmen Santos well remembers. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality. [[Applause]] Mr. Lago, I've never insulted anyone in a parliamentary chamber. That's what we left to his co-religionaries, Mr. Beers, Mr. Villares, and his groupmates. I've never missed anyone in this House. What they really have to do is listen to what I tell them, because when I speak here, I speak in the name of a group that represents most of the Greeks. 47% of the Greeks voted for us, and 19% for you. And why do you speak in the name of the Greeks, in the name of the common people? You represent a small part of the Greeks. And I think your discomfort in your intervention... you know what it has to do with it? It's about how you don't feel comfortable in the party you're in. You are in the Tides of Podemos, which yesterday were with Otegi, with Otegi!, walking through the streets of Barcelona. [[Applause]] We'll never be there, never. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He was his party. And I understand your discomfort. Look, I belong to a democratic party, born with the Spanish Constitution. You engage in a party, the Communist Party, which has 100 million dead behind you in the history of humanity Yes, yes, that's the reality. [[Applause]] You feel proud of your party, and I feel proud of my own, which is the People's Party. [[Protests.]] I'm so sorry. [[Strong murmurers.]] Look, you, speaking of this matter, said it's bad that there's a lot of small businesses, he said it in his first intervention, when he was still talking normally. [[Murmurs.]] It's also against big companies. You know what's wrong with him? You prefer them to close all companies directly, the big ones and the small ones. Because today he said there were many small ones and that that was bad. Listen, I think there's some consistency in that speech. Look, we think you can't turn your back on reality. In Galicia, the economy is growing above 3.2%, above the national average, unemployment is falling at a rate of 7% per annum, tourism has historical records, exports are growing as they have never done and we have fulfilled our obligations, we have complied with our obligations. And thanks to fulfilling the obligations, the economy goes as it goes and creates jobs in this country. And now what do we intend with this agenda, with this strategy for self-employed people? For this economic recovery which is reflected in the figures, which is based on job creation, also reaches the self-employed; with concrete measures, which are what self-employed people demand. You come here talking to that speech that crumbles, because populism drinks from people's despair, from the crisis. He lives in that situation. And that situation is changing in Spain, thank God, because there was a change of government, a change of course. And the Government of the People's Party has arrived in Spain and the Government of the People's Party has arrived in Galicia. And you were at the end of this whole situation, because they haven't done anything before, and they haven't done anything now by Galicia. So I understand your discomfort, Mr. Lago. Make them look at him. Of course, I will never miss any member of this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. To close this show, Mr. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we keep talking about autonomy. To Mrs. Prado I would cordially invite you to hear her intervention again. Because at no time did he appoint the self-sufficient. And I believe that in that context it is difficult to develop a debate. Because the Government brings here a strategy, brings here proposals, and what it finds — as I said in my first intervention — is with common places. And ask the Government — with all legitimacy — which is its production model. Look, Mrs. Prado, we brought the Entrepreneurship Act in April 2013 and you voted no. And they voted that not, for example, the elimination of municipal licenses in general. In December of that same year we brought the Strategy of Smart Specialization, and you voted that not to the possibility that Galicia could develop an innovation policy according to the European Union. We brought the Strategy for Internationalization, and I understand, that your border is in Galicia and that's where we can no longer pass, but you voted that not also to the Strategy for Internationalization. In April 2015 we brought the Industry Agenda 4.0, an industrial tissue modernization program, and once again, the Nationalist Block of Wales voted no. We brought Agenda 20 for the job, defending quality employment. You voted no. You're against the Rozas Technology Pole. And they are against many initiatives that are generating jobs and that are generating wealth in Galicia, like Reganosa, like Ence, like Elnosa, and like many projects that, I insist, generate jobs and wealth in Galicia. I believe that in that context, of course, there is a productive model that you do not support, but they do not debate about it or interest them; therefore, I would, logically, invite you to review that approach. Now we bring a business implementation law because we want to make administrative procedures easier for business people. And you ask again and anticipate a negative. Mr Prado, the debate is difficult, so the debate is difficult. Because if the Government brings proposals and the only proposal is not to talk about those proposals and simply say no, it will understand that the debate is complicated. Even when he talks about autonomy, in his speech I didn't understand if they looked like many or few autonomous. I still don't know what your position is, because in one case there are few of them, in another case there are many of them, and it would be good to focus the debate there as well. In any case, the Government brings a number of instruments, a number of proposals, which it believes can facilitate the development of entrepreneurship and self-government. And I think that about these aspects is where we have to focus the debate, and also logically with other measures. Of course, this Government has instruments to support self-government. Our duty is to use those instruments and, therefore, to give concrete answers to self-government. Mr. Losada asked me about measures to increase the size of the company. We have to focus the debate, because size is very important when we talk about innovation and when we talk about internationalization; because, so that productive tissue can actually get closer to international parameters and be more competitive in the field of innovation and internationalization, size is truly relevant. That needs measures, it's not easy. Because it's not easy to adopt measures from the policy area so that size can be favored, but we have to work on financial instruments. And I've been forwarding that in the coming weeks, the new innovative financial instruments set out in the February 2014-2020 framework will be approved. It will be an opportunity to promote, through funding, the increase in the size of companies. But we also have to work on other initiatives that are within the Industry 4.0 Agenda, such as integrating value chains into the main strategic sectors here in Galicia, or, for example, using logistics as a competitive element so companies can also improve their position. So the production model must also work on the size of the company and we have to work on the productive sectors so that the productive sectors also work in that direction. You talked to me about the lack of institutional support. I'm going to send you information that you don't have an official data, I have a reference. When the Government receives an investment proposal and there is an investor who wants to invest in Galicia, do you know what the first three questions it raises in general? The first is administrative proceedings, because they know that they have to deal with an administrative procedure in the Galician Union and in the municipalities, and they worry about what these administrative procedures are. The second question is the availability of industrial soil, what is that price and what are the financial conditions for addressing industrial soil. And the third, taxes, also municipal taxes, because logically, an entrepreneur, when he has to invest, has to deal with the different taxes, and also with municipalities: the IBI, the ICIO, the IAE, the opening rates, the work licenses... ultimately, these are the direct concerns; then, of course, there is a framework for assistance in the field of innovation, in the field of industrialization, but that's where, in the institutional field, they focus their concerns. And the Business Implementation Act — which you in consideration voted against — is trying to give concrete answers to these three questions. We centred on the discussion of the Enterprise Implementation Act and we are sure that we will be favouring the increase in the size of the productive sectors, the increase in the size of the business sectors, and we will also be favouring the self-employed. Mr. Lake I believe that often you are obliged to say no; that is my impression, that you are bound, because, of course, I cannot believe that you disagree with the promotion of self-responsive formation. And for the first time, this government, in the order of the busy, sets up a specific counties reserved for the autonomous. Of the 22 million euros, 3 million and a half euros are specifically for the formation of autonomouss in the development of digitisation and new technologies. I think we have to debate about this. It can certainly be insufficient, but it marks a clear tendency to support self-employed people. Just like I think the autonomous bond marks a clear trend, because I agree with you. The grants of the first deployment simply if they don't come along with a business model and if they don't come along with the future, for example, with the autonomous bonus, to allow approvals of your business, to allow a positioning on social networks and confront the new technologies... I think we could agree on that. Well, that's the autonomous bonus. Just as I think you would agree with the conciliation measures, because we have to equal them in rights and, of course, in generational relief. So when you tell me you don't agree with the 2020 Autonomous Strategy, I think it's a generalist phrase, but it doesn't respond, or you shouldn't answer, to reality, because I believe -- honestly, I believe -- that with the three parliamentary groups there can be meeting points in this Strategy and surely in the other strategies that I put forward earlier. So, I think that's where we have to work, in this case to favor self-government. Just as I think, because it is often true that they are different measures, Mr. Lago, that you have to agree that the Government gives incentives for the self-employed to hire workers, and there is that order. I also think you can agree in that order that allows the creation of companies driven by several autonomouss, which is oriented to the improvement of business and also to the growth of these businesses. I therefore insist that these are measures in which we could perfectly reach an agreement, a consensus and, above all, so that we can see that both the Government and the parliamentary groups are actually giving them concrete answers. In the first speech, I didn't respond to false autonomy. It's a concern of this government, of course. False self-government by definition is a fraud of law and therefore the obligation of this government is, through the Labour Inspectorate, to identify any initiative of any company that is using false self-government. In 2016 more than 33,000 work inspections were opened and more than 6% with an opening of inspection. And there too, logically, we have to fight for the submerged economy, because it was 4,500 submerged economic jobs that were detected, and also for false autonomouss. And this government, through the area of employment and in collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, is fighting against this fraud of law because, in fact, autonomouss have to respond to entrepreneurship initiatives and in no case be, through a fraud of law, a false autonomous. Finally, with this Strategy, ladies and gentlemen, the Government wanted to share, inform and, of course, identify through the debate future initiatives to bring action to a collective which was fundamental and that suffered like no one during the economic crisis, but which is a decisive actor when we talk about job creation and when we talk about economic recovery. And possibly today being autonomous in Galicia is much easier than in 2009. I've already transferred it, as a general rule, the previous licence is not required, there are tax incentives like zero taxes in rural areas, and there is a strategy that seeks to complement the measures and which the Government of Spain has also established. Today we take into account the Law on entrepreneurship and promotion, which aims to be a further step in supporting the productive sector, and there, logically, we must continue to support the self-employed. Finally, the objective of this Strategy is only to improve the position of self-employment in Galicia by giving them more facilities so that they can undertake, above all, so that they can continue to create quality jobs and to find the most appropriate policy area and incentives to make Galicia the autonomous community in which they can better develop their own projects in Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u117	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u118	Yes, Mrs. Solla, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u119	On the basis of Article 76.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u120	In particular, what is the allusion or...? No, no, I'm sorry, I'm going to ask you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have the right to ask him. What is the disqualification or alteration of the conduct of a Member who observed you in the debate, in which you were not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u121	Mr. Tellado made a rather irresponsible statement in which all the communists are insulted. I am secretary of the Communist Party of Galicia; I am therefore alluded to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u122	I'm sorry, I'm sorry... No, no, it doesn't. It doesn't work. No, sorry. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no. It was... sorry. [[Murmurs.]] I wasn't. I wasn't! No, I'm sorry, I wasn't. The floor doesn't come because, I'm sorry, I wasn't in the debate. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] I wasn't in the debate. I did not observe a dequalification or conduct... No, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] There were some hard exchanges between two Members about the origins of one party and another. I will therefore not give the floor in this case. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was possibly a mistake where the two Members entered, which is indeed possible, in an appearance as interesting as this one. It may have been a mistake for Members, but I didn't notice that. So it doesn't work. I'm not giving the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u123	Good afternoon. We resume the session with item 3 on the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Oolaia Rodil Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the dismantling of the Renfe-Feve railway services in the territory of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u124	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u125	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u126	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We discussed today a motion to the thread of the interpellation that we had the opportunity to make coincidentally with the last plenary session in July, and which includes a battery of proposals that are mostly collected from the study carried out by the platform for defense of the Railroad Ribadeo-Ferrol, or Ferrol-Ribadeo, the old Fever. Since we had the opportunity to speak to the Infrastructure and Living Adviser, Mrs Vázquez, about this situation that is reaching, as I say, the railway line wide metric, the old Fever, which we have seen — and in addition to the information that has been coming to us and that has been facilitating us precisely the Platform — it is that, far from improving during the month of August and throughout the summer, continuous delays and suppressions of the service itself have continued to occur in the old Fever, mostly motivated by the poor state in which both machines and the lack of maintenance of the infrastructure itself. I have three pages here, in case someone was interested in consulting what were those incidences recorded during the summer. In spite of all, the Infrastructure Council continues not to convene — it did not do so during the month of July, neither did it during the month of August, and we still haven't had much, but we haven't had a session -- this working group that, as you know, was formed or at least was promoted on 8 May 2017, and which is integrated with the mayorates of the municipalities of the districts of Ferrolterra, Ortega and the Navy, in addition to representatives of Renfe and Adef, entities that are responsible, as you know, both of the operator and of the infrastructure. There has been nothing done to solve the many problems that we already realized in the interpellation and that we could often go through the intervention when we made this inquiry to the advisor, and it seems that the intention, so it has not been done over the past month, is to continue, by the Government of Greece, with cross-arms. Far from that immobilist position, on the part of the Galego Nationalist Block, we want to take advantage of this motion, which derives from this interpellation, to put specific actions on the table, specific measures that can contribute to rescue, because we believe that the situation no longer leaves any other qualificance than the rescue of the old Feb. In this sense, the first point, as you might see, we believe that it is the most urgent one, and it is precisely that it is called from now on, as long as it is possible — it may be today that it is not expected tomorrow — that working group, which concentrates the mayors and representatives of both the Spanish Government and the Greek Government, to start its work around the railway service of metric width. We can't wait any longer if all the political forces represented in this House, and also the Government of the Galician Union itself, we want to recover this service and put it into operation according to the needs of the population of these three districts, but also of the companies located in the northern corner of our country. In this sense, within the framework of that working group — and these are the following points that make up the motion that today defends the Nationalist Block of Wales — what we want is to encourage them, always with a permanent dialogue by the Infrastructure Council with those mayors and also with the people who form part of the Railway Defense Platform Ferrol-Ribadeo, who are users of the service of the old Feb, and who start a series of actions that I will immediately explain. On the one hand, to require Renfe to fully repair and reform all the units that currently make up the fleet to eliminate — and not to patch — the manufacturing problems that have been detected in some of them and also those other problems that are the reason for most of the incidences that have been recorded, not in recent months, but we could almost say in recent years. On the other hand, we understand that we must immediately demand that Renfe provide the personnel and means that the service needs to guarantee it in quality conditions, also taking into account the mobility needs of the population, both in terms of workshops and machines, precisely in order to give root to the problems we find in machines, as well as providing personnel, as they can be machines. We've already said that in the summer months many of them's vacations would not be covered, and that this would be a tool for the proper functioning of the service itself, and above all for the interveners. What we're seeing is a complaint -- we said it in July and we repeat it again now -- constant, and it's something that seems absolutely unacceptable to us, which is that the Fever travels almost normally in single agent mode, and that's supposed to take some time in the course of the service itself. They know that to the extent that you only travel with the driver the train must stop at all stops, regardless of whether there are people who are going up or down or not, and that leads many people up on the Feb without paying the ticket, to a good extent also because there are many stops where you can't even buy for lack of staff. And another question that we also find very serious is the fact that you can't register the number of real people using this service because you can't draw up reliable statistics to the extent that we don't even take account of the people coming up and going down from the service itself or the tickets you buy, because, I say, on many occasions they don't even buy. We also understand that to guarantee a quality service that covers — we insist — the needs of the population of these three regions — that are not few people; we are talking about more than 200,000 people covering these three regions, but also to vertebrate our country — we must bear in mind that the old feve is the only option that is not the bus or the particular vehicle for this area, the northern corner of our country, it is necessary to redesign the schedules that exist today and adapt them, as I say, to the needs of our population, always thinking in that perspective of intermodality; that is, it is also being sought, with this revision and redesign of the schedules itself, to adapt them to the combinations with buses, for example, that they take those people from the old or old feve dockers to other population nuclei, or even in many cases — I am now thinking about the Comarca of the Navy — to the hospital itself; the possibility of allowing the launch bus to be opened. Or there are many people who also use it to travel from the comarcas of Ferrolterra and Ortegal to study at the campus of Coruña and who also combine the old Febe with the bus service. There is a proposal for a redesign of these timetables on the table that formulated the Railway Defence Platform itself Ferrol-Ribadeo, of the old Feb, which, in addition to part of the schedules that have been in force since 2014 and which does not see the incorporation of new machines, but rather, what you are looking for is a more rational management, but also more efficient service based on what we already have. We do not talk about incorporating new machines, I insist, but from those 2014 schedules and the machines that already exist — but that is, working as they should — better and more rationally and more efficiently to the needs of the population. Of course, we also understand that we must not put aside that division of commodities. We also have a potential for companies located in that northern corner of the country so that they can see an opportunity in the transport of goods, in the old Febe; and for that, it will also be necessary, we have no less doubt, than in addition to having that division of own goods, equipped with sufficient means and staff here in Galicia, to create new areas and cargo routes that facilitate and promote this rail transport of commodities. I put them -- and I've already put them on more occasions -- the example of the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao. You're at the factory and you're 500 meters away from the old Feb, but there's no direct connection from the plant to the trainway itself, which requires the aluminium plates to be transported, to be taken to the train itself, by road. This would also allow us to decongested a lot of the traffic around these three comarcas on the roads, which is another of the serious problems we have encountered in these localities, in many of them, for example, in the Sea of Lugo. As a medium- or long-term solution we formulate to which we consider it the only possible way to have a railway system in the north of our country, which meets the needs of our own country, the territorial vertebration of Galicia and the needs of the population itself, and also of the companies of the Navy, Ortega and Ferrolterra, which is to claim those powers of the management of the old Fever to the Government of the Spanish State. What we see constantly is that the Government of the Spanish State has no interest in the situation in which the old Fever finds itself. If we really want to put this service into effect according to our interests, what's urgent is that we take the income from our own future, and in that sense we start the management that is necessary with the Spanish Government to make ourselves responsible for that line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u128	I'm done. We are simply not asking them for anything outside the current statutory framework. It is a competition provided for in the 1981 Statute. We do not ask them to become independentists nor to declare themselves insubmissive, simply to exercise the powers which appear to be collected in it, and also — and I am finished — that they derail, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the commitment that the Infrastructure Council acquired in 2009, which was to create a Greek public entity that manages the railway in this country. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Today, with this motion from the Galego Nationalist Block, we are substantiation of this same parliamentary group debated in this House at the last plenary session on 11 July 2017. A question, railway services, Renfe and Fever in Galicia, which keeps a great similarity to the rail transport by traditional lines, including the transport of proximity, which has been widely debated, as I say, in past legislation and even in this legislation that we have just ended in the previous session. And we must, given this similarity, understand what is happening in the Renfe-Feve railway services between Ferrol and Ribadeo. Let's remember what the Royal Decree 22/2012 of 20 July 2012, adopted by Mr. Rajoy's Government on behalf of Mr. Feijóo, has given him the application of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2012. So, the branch advisor also repeatedly repeated, as now the counselor: "We're working a lot to get the neighbors and neighbors to have a rail transport according to their needs." We all know the results of this overload of work: the practical application of that decree by way of facts placed traditional rail transport on the edge of its premature disappearance and consented by the Government of Greece. All the actions committed and undertaken were in the weakening line to justify their dismantling: closing station stops, reducing and removing frequencies, removing itineraries, changing schedules to inadequate ones so that they could be used less, abandoning the conservation of stations, infrastructure, rolling stock, personnel reduction... It's not just what we're debating today. The effects of these actions have affected and harm residents of towns and villages located in the areas of itineraries. We fear that, under the wordwork—"we work, we work"—if the negative results are repeated already described. This time the wounded are already being and will continue to be the neighbors and neighbors of the Navy, Ortegal and Ferrolterra. And the background does not invite optimism, because, Mrs Rodil, the nearby railway service, has been as widely debated in this House as ignored by the central and autonomous governments of the People's Party. It's not a question of negative facts largely brought up by you in your intervention, nor even of solid arguments known and recognized that invite the full development of the Renfe Febe Ferrol-Ribadeo railway service. It's not a question of insurmountable theoretical differences either. Similar initiatives have been adopted in this House in recent years with the support of all parliamentary groups. It is a matter of conviction and political will, and we fear that the Government of the People's Party has neither that conviction nor that political will. In any case, appeals to "is not a competition", to "we work every day", to "we are in contact with the Ministry permanently", without realizing realities, sound more like profiling than facing a situation — this situation — with a strong decision. The lack of a solution to the neighbors and neighbors makes it manifest an ineffectiveness and inefficiency of the Counsellor's Lady and the very worrying Italian Government itself. Mrs. Rodil, it's up to you to continue in the fight so that someday the neighbors and the neighbors of the Navy, Ortegal and Ferrolterra have the railway transport they have right to. The Socialist Group in its contribution has tabled an amendment of addition, which we hope will be accepted, which aims to add forces and create synergies that extend the territorial space of the proposed action, and which will undoubtedly also have a positive impact on Ortegal, Ferrolterra and The Navy. Anyway, regardless of whether you consider it or not, we're going to support your initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u131	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Galician Union, in spite of its lack of direct competence over the railway line, has maintained a continuous and repeated interest in these services and the line, and tries and insists on the need to have a competitive railway service also in the Navy, Ortegal and Ferrolterra. It does so by communicating operating problems in a repeated way, it also does so with a communication to try to resolve immediately the possible incidences that are emerging and actually gardening, but it also does so by attending and meeting with the municipalities, with the mayors of the area so that in those meetings the worries and the problem are moved, and what it does is to move them immediately to Development and require it for their improvement. As a result of a non-legislative proposal adopted in this Parliament in the plenary session in April, the Committee also held a meeting between representatives of the Ministry, the Chair and the municipalities concerned in order to deal with the problem and to be able to move forward in these solutions. This meeting — as you have well said — took place on 8 May and agreed to set up a working group to move on. As a starting point, I think it is also important to remember that Renfe has developed a plan of action of metric width in Ferrol that has been transferred to the eighteen municipalities of these districts and has acquired a series of commitments in different areas with an expected investment of EUR 4 million. At this point — as you well know — there are already 13 municipalities that have appointed their representatives, there are five, all of the opposition parties — including one, Mrs Rodil, from the BNG. What we ask of you is that these representatives must be named as soon as possible in order to move forward in that working group. Therefore, we also understand that it makes sense that it is in that working group where commitments, phases, plans, different actions are approaching, and that different actions are being prioritized for power — as I say — to continue to move forward. That's why we tabled an amendment. In this amendment we believe that we share that first point and that it is possible and we must push this commission as soon as possible. But, on the other hand, we do not understand that we must point out in detail the points to be addressed, because for this reason the commission is created, to assess and take account of the points and the different actions, to prioritize them and to respond to the demands of the councils, which will all be represented — if they are appointed as representatives — in that committee. But what we have a problem with — and we have already talked about this on other occasions — is with the request at the third point of the transfer from Feb to Galicia. As you know, this is an infrastructure that continues towards Asturias and other autonomous communities, therefore clear state competition. On the other hand, it's also a deficit line, defined as a public service obligation with economic compensation to the operator. And we understand that we must not suggest that it is Galicia and the Greeks who assume this deficit burden. As for the amendment of the Socialist Party of Galicia-PSOE, we believe it can be supported. We would be willing to support it with a transaction of this non-law proposition, if it were to happen. And much more after yesterday's Congress of Deputies of the Minister of Development's commitment to implement a plan to improve the railway vicinity of the Cantabrian cornice. We understand that, therefore, this group and this Group of Galicia — which we support — will continue to work and we are committed to the Fever. We understand that it is necessary to implement those improvements. We understand that important steps have already been taken this summer after the last bill passed within this committee and with that plan of metric width of Ferrol, with concrete investments and concrete actions. We need to check and monitor compliance with that plan. And we understand that all these measures must be done within this committee that has already been set up and in respect of what we ask them to appoint their representatives as members as soon as possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u133	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u134	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. As bad as the People's Party is engaged to the Feve line; otherwise, it would go a wagon with horses around. Our group will vote favourably for this initiative with the intention of reverting the ongoing deterioration process that suffers from the old Febe line, a line that is letting itself die without notice that they are killing her, like those movies in which the mobsters said, "that looks like an accident." The conventional railway is suffering a mermaid in the service that has been going on for many years, which in the case of the Ferrol-Ribadeo line, which runs through the cantabria cornice, is especially bleeding. Every year a little more deteriorated, a silent and progressive dismantling process perpetrated by people who say something while doing the opposite. The deterioration of narrow rail services reaches an unsustainable pace for users, the delays of 15-10 minutes are already standardized, the trains often arrive half an hour late and there are many services that flow to their destination with accumulated delays of up to one hour. Cancellations are another problem that repeats every week, either because of lack of material or malfunctions on machines, forcing passengers to complete the route by bus or taxi, looking for life because they are not given any alternative to service failure. From mid-July to mid-August -- in two months -- the Railway Defense Platform accounted for not one, not two, not three, up to ninety incidences on this line. Percances repeat and yet the levels of occupation registered in this same period were high, despite all efforts to let him die. Yes, Renfe will not have statistics certifying the number of passengers, because most trains travel without an intervener, and many passengers travel free of charge for not having the possibility to buy tickets with closed stations, without service on the docks and without interveners. That'll make it easier to convince them they didn't actually kill him, which was an accident. More and more fall into the oblivion of the basic maintenance: cleaning of vegetation, maintenance of lighting—when there is—information, transmitting an image of abandonment, it seems that with the intention of people to stop using the train permanently, in case their delays, suppressions and bad times are not enough. Mr Feijóo has recently made statements in favour of studying the proposal to reform the transcantabrian rail layout to turn it into a logistic axis of goods and passengers, and Mr Daniel Vega recently told Ribadeo that Rajoy and Feijóo are making great efforts to improve the lives of the radians, among them, improvements on the railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo. But reality is what it is and is very different from the propaganda of the People's Party. The reality is they're killing the Ferrol-Ribadeo train, hidden, without giving the face, so it looks like an accident, nothing new in the annihilating strategies of the people of the People's Party. On the issue of infrastructure and mobility, we must focus our attention on the production model, sustainability, rationality, road safety, reduced energy dependence and providing the best service to the citizen. And to achieve these goals, we have to do everything contrary to what the People's Party has been doing. Internally optimizing the railway is a strategic issue of reaching these targets, not that every galley and galley have a high-capacity track within 15 minutes and that the rail passenger connection with Madrid is somewhat faster, only bets on the mobility of a People's Party without a country project. As far as commodities are concerned, converting this line into a 21st century line would allow us to connect all the networked Galician ports to a competitive railway line, connecting the Atlantic and Cantabrian ports to these, in turn to the most important ports of Asturias, Cantabria and Euskadi, which, along with the southern exit to Portugal, enables us to overcome the radial model and thus gain competitiveness and generate new opportunities while improving our contribution to climate change. So we're going to vote favourably for a 21st century railway line for the cantabrian cornice. We'll continue to work in defense of a quality public and social train. And it would be very good for Galicia to have the Galician People's Party on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks and not to vote as a delegation from the Central Government to which it seems good that in Galicia we have railway lines from the 19th century. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u135	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u136	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. See if he can give me time to answer everything. I'm going to start with the amendments, which I couldn't stand before. The Socialist Party — in all respects, within the good tune we have in these matters, at least since we debate them here in this legislation — will not accept it because we believe that it does not, in principle, come up with any matter beyond what we have raised. As far as the People's Party is concerned, we are not going to accept it. We would be prepared to accept as the second point adds, which simply turns Parliament into a follow-up to the development of the work being carried out in that group that is to be set up, which has not yet been set up. But, as you can see, what you propose is to liquidate our motion and the battery of measures that we bring here today for your debate. And in exchange for that battery of actions, of measures to be implemented, what we're called upon is to fall into that laissez do, to let do, to let do, to let do, that we believe, at least from the Galego Nationalist Block, which is that motionless position that brought us to the point where we are today, where the service is practically dismantled. I'm going to tell you about my personal experience on the last trip to the railway system of metric width and what I tell you directly about the staff who work -- the little staff that's still working -- is that, if you want to take a ticket back and forth, what you do, when you get to your stop station, is to call by phone before you buy the ticket back, because you never know if there's going to be that return line again, by the removals of services or by delays. And it was mentioned earlier here that they usually run between 30 and 45 minutes. We've registered some 65 minutes on July 16, 2017, Ortigueira-Ferrol, 65 minutes late. And many others who are directly suppressed by constant damage to machines. I believe that what we can't do is keep our arms crossed, with this argument, which has already given us the advisor, that "the mayors don't answer." Look, the order to convene the working group was assumed by the Infrastructure Council, it's got to launch a call to the e-mails of the mayors who are represented and who make up that working group and call it; then we'll see who is, who is not, and what decisions are made in their bosom. We also don't agree that jobs have to develop within that group. We are at the political heart of this country, in the House of Representatives. We are not here to make — as does Junta — notary — to come by recording the incidences that occur within the line of the Feb. For what we are about to take the initiative, since the Government does not seem to have it, and to put measures and actions on the table in the short, long term to give a definitive solution, if there is political will to do so. Because I think that, at this point in front of the votes as we shall have here today, or if you are on the side of the maintenance of the old Feb or if you are in favour of the dismantling that is already designed, which has already been in some way foreseen by the Spanish Government itself. I don't have any more time. I'm just going to give you a figure that reflects that commitment of the Spanish State to the old Feb. See, for the year 2016-2017, a share of 12 million euros directed to maintenance, improving the quality of the service of the old Feb, and what they did in early January 2017 was reduce it to 2 million and cancel the rest of the budget. To be honest, the only way to claim competence is to find a solution if we really want to have railway services that meet the needs of this country; the other is cheap chatter. So they have a chance — I say — to vote on the motion. Either you're with the motion — as they said in the morning — and in favour of the Fever or you're against the railway system of this country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the activities to be carried out in Junta de Galicia in relation to education policy in rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u138	This motion was presented with an amendment to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales and a self-amendment of the group itself which formulates the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u139	Mrs Chao has the floor to defend the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We started a new course and regrettably did it in the same way as we did: regretting the damage to social rights, the worsening of public services, the gradual dismantling of public education in favor of the concert; step by step, but firm, without rest, step by step, step by step, but firm, especially when we talk about rural education. They'll remember that just two months ago in this House we filed an inquiry to discuss this matter. At that time it was the issue that the educational community was most concerned about. Here we had families of the most affected schools, which occupied those days, families of the Outes and Bridges School, which the Greek Government decided to ignore and move forward in its total and absolute refusal to listen to those who think differently. At that moment, as I said, we talked about the continued loss of rights in the education system in rural areas. We're talking about Outes, Bridges, closing the lines of the ESO in the Porriño and Ribadavia. They were the most noisy cases, but unfortunately they're not the only ones from the People's Party plan to dismantle public services in rural areas. Only in this course Galicia loses 27 lessons in children and 15 in primary. They also put nine irons in so many unitary schools, which eventually leave in more than 200 units closed in a decade. Locks and more locks. Locks in schools that end up being the chronicle of an announced death of whole towns and villages. It's the toughest figures in the policy of the People's Party on the dismantling of public education, which, despite its propaganda discourse on recovery, is determined to continue to override the economic criteria to quality in education. So every year, thousands of families look with concern every start of the course to check how much they lost about the previous course, if they're going to have this time as a teacher of children, if they're going to have a teacher of music, hearing and language specialists, or if, on the other hand, they're going to have to shift their children to tens of miles on long mountain roads that make a shift that should last about 10 minutes even in an hour and a half. The truth is, you learn a lot when you talk to the families that have your children educated in these circumstances. That's why I have to remember the words of a mother of Cervantes when she told me, when she started as a Member in this House, that in her understanding the rights are not expensive or cheap, they are only rights. Surely the Members of the People's Party have already heard this sentence, because the truth is that I repeat it many times, I think it is difficult to say more with less. Absolute clarity to a mother who doesn't understand why her children have to have a higher quality education because they live in rural areas, who doesn't understand why the Administration is giving back to an educational model of so many potentialities, which, in fact, can be used well and with the necessary resources on the table of rural education. Because in Marea rural school is a symbol of our identity, the identity of Galicia and its people. Rural people have contributed for centuries to this country's own identity but also diverse and rich. So taking care of the countryside should be taking care of our country. As this famous Valencian singer says, "who loses their origins loses their identity." And we don't want to lose our source or our identity. In this mission to preserve the same, respecting diversity and promoting the country's wealth, the rural school of Galicia has a very important role: it is directed at preventing and compensating the inequalities of access, permanence and promotion in the educational system of people living in rural areas, while valuing Galicia's own and indigenous qualities. Knowing this and knowing the role that these kinds of educational systems play, there should be no repair in defending it and promoting it; rather, it should be proud to be able to do so. And not only for the stated symbolic and identity value of it, not only to guarantee a fundamental right — which seems to be very powerful reasons for themselves — but also because studies on the subject have shown that rural school is full of benefits for students. Notice that we're not talking about anything new or bringing an exported model from faraway countries. We can talk about nearby cases such as the model of rural education of Castela-León. And -- oh, surprise -- we bring here a community in which our friends don't rule, rule the People's Party. Look, today we're even going to say something positive about a People's Party government, because it turns out that its model of rural schools tells specialists that it works reasonably well. It all depends on the approach, of course, because there the Education Counsellor says that rural schools, with very low ratios, are very positive, because, far from being a demerit, they end up being like particular classes for boys. Personalized attention and not dulled classes, although in this House we heard that the same thing happens to have in class 10 than 20, that 30, that 50, because nowhere was it documented that 50 students in a classroom were worse than having 10. Well, it turns out that the counsellor in Castela-Leon doesn't think the same thing, and he thinks that, of course, if you have to attend five boys, it's much more beneficial than if you have to take 30 because you have more time to dedicate to them. Things I suppose your advisor would invent. It turns out they don't have a president either in that community who makes statements questioning this educational model. The president of Castela-León didn't go out in the media saying that "this of rural schools is a little old-fashioned and that, in total, why?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It turns out that in Castela-León the rural school is a bet and a fundamental piece in the success of the education system, which achieves very high results in the different evaluations carried out; so positive results that they carried the nickname of "Spanish Finland", because this is the model that is usually used among specialists to speak of high educational quality. Opportunity and no problem, resources and no clipping. Change the optics, finally. And that deals with our motion, because the situation demands it, because society demands it and the time to try to turn this situation around is now. Or didn't we hear a thousand times that this was the legislation of the countryside? What do we propose from En Marea? First of all, to ensure the right to quality public education in rural areas, constituting a study commission involving the representatives of teaching workers, the Galaga Bureau of Education in Rural, representatives of the ANPA, teachers and teachers, educators and social educators, sociologists and sociologists, teachers, teachers from the universities of Greece and organizations and social groups involved in combating the territorial imbalance. Secondly, to develop a specific rural education plan, as all the people who have worked in this area for years have been demanding; to develop a specific plan that considers the importance of rural and mountain education centres as basic services necessary for the establishment of the population. Because this is the tale of the egg and the chicken: what is first: to dismantle public services and then to regret that there is no population? or vice versa? We are certainly not going to agree on the diagnosis, but what we can agree on — in which we should coincide, because it is obvious — is that it will be impossible to curb the demographic indentation that is suffering from inside Galicia until quality public services have been guaranteed throughout the territory. The logic seems simple: which family will live in a town where they just closed school?, which family will move to live in a town where they just closed school? It's a question of fundamental rights, constitutional rights, but it's also a demographic measure of first order, a subject that seemed to be of great concern to the Government this year. A specific plan which, on the one hand, takes into account the many existing models — unitary schools, CRA, ICC, CEIP, IES — so as to guarantee the highest quality in all of them and not be a priori by a model that we do not know why, because we are still unable to understand in this Parliament the justifications they have given with the last closures. On the other hand, the plan should include sociodemographic forecasts in the medium and long term before making a closure. He said before: closing school is like putting a date on the death of a people, assuming that schools will not be kept permanently open without a student. So then I don't have to hear things out of my mouth that I didn't say, low-solvent arguments, we're already saying: we assume they won't be kept indefinitely. But we consider it necessary to analyze, before decreeing the closure of a school, what the demographic forecast will be in the medium and long term. Because just like this year, in fact, there's a significant decline in population, but maybe two or three years later there was enough education for that school. And what we do know is that once it closes, it never opens again. Thirdly, the plan should reduce the minimum ratios in rural centres, down to the 3 students, as is done in other communities who understood the need to give special treatment to special situations. Our proposal seeks to provide special protection for rural centres, understanding that they have specific needs and that requires differentiated measures. We think it is necessary to deal with different situations in a different way, because that is the only way we will be able to guarantee equal educational opportunities for all the boys and girls in Galicia. Equal educational opportunities which also require the coverage of specialists in educational centres. Because it's not just about opening the centers, it's about getting the best quality available there. That's why we also propose that the plan have a teacher stabilisation program in rural centers, with incentives. It would be a question of maintaining an open dialogue with trade union organizations so that we can look for the best way to ensure greater stability in rural teachers, because, as you know, it's in those centers where teachers break the most. And finally, we believe that it is necessary for the plan to include a specific training programme for teachers, so that the professionals are given the necessary tools to take advantage of all the potentialities of this system. And thirdly — and lastly — we propose the creation of rural centres of educational research, educational spaces with extensive experience and pedagogical recognition in support of socialization and learning. These centres, already existing in other State communities, are aimed at promoting innovation, collaboration, research, training and development of rural schools as a whole: an educational reference. Assemade, they facilitate the coexistence of the student and the teacher and provide educational resources to the small schools of each community, which we believe would be of great benefit to Galicia. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. That rural people care about the PP as if it weren't the way of voting and cacical settlement is manifestly true. It is an irrefutable truth, years and years of government with full competence in agriculture and education and there. [[Applause]] Of course, it is basically our fault, of the country, of us administrators, a dispersed population and a farming without vocation of presence — and this is almost witness — with a gain in continued existential crisis and a lot without vocation to exist, although with enormous calorific potential. Of course, even yesterday, the countryside gave shelter to more than half of the population of Galicia and gave life and fed excessively in self-consumption regimes all over the country of the Greeks. I know that many of you don't believe it, you're so beautiful rural Galician... Those you managed to get out of that hell where you used to hate reality by system, where you would anatomize yourself with woodland and corridor, language and the future, where the goal was to escape at any price, because you, the triumphors of that world, will not agree with the reality of this prehistoric nostalgia. For there was a last and titanic effort that was radically suffocated by milk quotas that prevented a possible dream, the hope of redemption that the agrarists demanded of the year; the reality of a dynamic, modern country, with a field and with a peasantry according to the times of that Europe that put us as bait, as bait, in order that we hit the anchor. Thank you, gentlemen, accomplished mission, we are already in the demographic percentages that mark that minimum commitment to the primary sector. We are modern, Mr. Fraga sleeps at peace the sleep of the righteous. And now it's time to dismantle how little I've done, and I've been there for years. Now the last alterations cry out to heaven, hurt -- I'd say they hurt you too, PP gentlemen. The kitchen dining rooms and decent food were replaced by ineffable catering; the rural schools, reduced to the minimum personal and registration expression; the Pre-school in the House—it's a wonderful invention that we could speak to the teachers of the units and educational centers of the villages—that program that was so dreamt, so we still believe in pedagogy, school of possible parents, you gave him the shot of grace—and it's gone for a few years already. We, from the BNG, have come to tell them that the year will end and their militia in Galicia has not been allowed to see. The year of rural laughter. Too bad that laugh hurts. You go to the countryside of holidays, from party to party, from parrot to pararot: dust, empanada and meat to the caldron — no more, no more — [[Murmurs.]] From the BNG we propose another resolution text, because it seems to us that this rural area already has too many patches and needs urgent and totalizing solutions. It doesn't look like Mr. Tellado's speeches this morning. A rural that doesn't visualize a future hopeful, with an old population without a common project, without an entity, without a possibility of improvement, is an agonyal rural. [[Applause]] That's why it's done -- don't dialogue --...it's impossible to put this situation down and turn it around! [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Yes, sir, you're not the president, thank God, or I don't know who... [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Stop the closure and precariousization of rural educational centres. It's urgent to stay the way we are at the moment. Ensuring the right to quality public education without understanding this. To develop a specific teacher training plan to help raise the rural environment — and this is very important, and we know of that we work in rural areas, and I work there and I still live there, I don't escape, eh! Development of a comprehensive rural recovery and dynamisation plan that, in addition to addressing the complex general problem of the rural environment and designing the necessary corrective measures, counts as fundamental parts in this work with existing educational centres, enhancing their modernization. I know they don't know about anything, because this year in the countryside of what you were talking about, you have to turn it into a decade in the countryside, yes; and, unfortunately, we'll do it, whether it looks good or not, and I'll see it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u143	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. After this metaphorical or post-vacational tension, I believe it is necessary to take seriously such a matter as the motion brought here today by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, which, in a way, coincides very much with a non-legislative proposal which also presents the Socialist Parliamentary Group at this very plenary and which will already be discussed at its own time. It is true — as has been said by the representative of En Marea, Mrs Chao — that there are experiences in other autonomous communities, very interesting experiences, very productive and, moreover, very exportable, although they may have other geographic realities and distribution of population, but many similarities from the point of view of dispersion and the need for attention to students in rural areas. And, therefore, if there are autonomous communities that have already advanced on that path, there is no reason not to use that knowledge, that advanced experience that they have with respect to our autonomous community. It is also true, as was said here, by quoting someone from the Courel — I think — that the rights are neither expensive nor cheap, that is, they have no price; they have a cost obviously, but they cannot be quantified in terms of whether they are expensive or not, because they are rights, and therefore it is necessary for those who govern to make effective the rights of that population. However, we have a little mess here, which was unclear to me on the basis of the En Marea initiative and the amendments and self-amendments — both the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block and the self-amendment by En Marea — which I would like to clarify before we proceed to the vote. And I therefore understand that the closing of the initiative's group will clearly tell us what parties accept and what they do not accept. Because it seems to me at least picturesque that by the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, in its substitution amendment, any reference to rural educational research centres has been deleted, to which the rapporteur of En Marea explicitly and correctly referred with respect to other autonomous communities, which does not appear in the amendment to replace the Galego Nationalist Block. I understand that before voting, you will come to some kind of transaction that will then communicate to the rest of the groups, in particular my own, to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, since we would like to make it clear whether we are going to vote on the establishment of such centres — which, as has been said, are already in other autonomous communities — or not. It also drew our attention, within the amendments to this motion, that the self-amendment of the En Marea Group—it did not want to be offensive or far from offensive, they know that I intend not to be my form of interlocution, even though I understand that my vehemence sometimes leads me to these defeats—we say that it has a variable depth as to its level of deepening in the proposal, so that somewhere we speak of the decrease in the minimum ratio in rural centers to the 3 students, if it speaks of a program of stabilising teachers in rural areas through incentives—so it is true that in a certain way you have made reference—and a specific training plan for teachers in rural areas in such a way that the potential of this educational model is taken. I understand that this last paragraph, in particular, of its self-amendment invalidates to some extent the annulment of rural educational research centres to which I referred earlier, which are not included in the amendment to the Nationalist Block of Wales. So we a priori will support this motion, because — I insist — goes on the line we have already defended at your moment — as you have also referred to it and so on — with regard to the problem that occurred at the end of the course last June. There is a need for consensus by all political forces to defend an educational model that stabilizes rural society. As the honourable Member said to whom I would refer affectionately as Mini very rightly, it should not be the legislation or the year, it should be the decade, and it should be the life of the rural permanently. That is to say, it is an identifying element of this autonomous community and therefore it is necessary to support it in all fields and, in particular, in education, which is what we are talking about in this motion. But — I insist — we need to make it clear that this is what we are going to vote for, and I would be grateful to you that, before the vote was taken, if you would tell our parliamentary group which are the extremes of the motion we are going to end up voting on, whether or not they have done so, whether or not they accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. And one last reference, although this would be an extraordinarily extensive debate, evidently outside the parliamentary field. It is also not excessively prudent to link ratios and academic performance and educational quality. There is one factor that is never spoken and I hear some of those who are in this Chamber will understand the importance given to the training of teachers in all fields and, in particular, in those contexts where they will develop their teaching. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u145	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u146	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Álvarez, I'm going to share a perception with you. You were talking about how it was like a little mess this subject of amendments and self-amendments, I'm going to change a little to qualification. I found myself disconcerting when I received the self-amendment of En Marea yesterday by amending her own motion, that was my first sign of confusion. Today I also took a slight misunderstanding when the plea that caused this motion was defended on his day by Mrs. Cuña and today the motion to defend Mrs. Chao. In short, a misunderstanding that then, above all, was on the rise when a motion was brought intended to defend education in rural areas and which, in some ways, aims to defend rural life and ultimately what is done from this forum is to articulate a speech of contempt for rural life which, in some ways, seems to be causing rural schools to be beaten to strengthen the political discourse that we want to convey to society. That's what I'm telling you, it's deeply disconcerting and that was the feeling that I took now when I was listening. First of all, it must be pointed out that educational policies seek to guarantee equal opportunities for all Galician children; therefore, of course, for rural children as well. And that's the government's obligation. And, therefore, ensuring equal opportunities in education is a basic foundation on what the construction of the entire education system is based on. Any charge of discrimination against school in rural areas that they can make from opposition groups is simply false, and fortunately it is the very reality of the Welsh educational system that is responsible for denying this falsehood. You know perfectly well that rural education is guaranteed, both at the budgetary level and in the provision of services and professionals. But they also know that it is the obligation of a responsible administration to adapt the service to the social reality and to the population characteristics of each territory. The Council is making an important effort to support the education centres of the Brazilian countryside, both through the impulse of specific novice plans and foreign language programs, as well as by encouraging their participation in the implementation strategies in the new technologies. As you well know, in this course -- and they mentioned it -- they stopped providing educational services to nine schools in Galicia because of the lack of pupils; a measure that is taken by adopting a fixed, objective and known criterion, which is to keep the schools of 6 or more pupils open, and to close those that remain below this demand ratio. As I say, a criterion has been made, objective and known to all, which allows to eliminate the arbitrariness of the decision to close a unitary school. Interestingly, when some of those who are in the opposition today were ruling, they didn't mind closing unitarian schools with 9 pupils, skipping this objective criterion and, therefore, equipping with uncertainty and arbitrary decision to close or not unitary schools. But it's just that they've been repeating a fallacious argument that I thought I'd already been perfectly disassembled in the debate of the interpellation that sparked the motion that we're debating here today, which is nothing other than that of the confusion of cause and consequence of the complexity of the analysis of the demographic downturn. Is there no population because there are no services or services because there is no population? Of course, the question is much more complex than the simple view shows the resolution of it and actually exceeds the context of the debate we are maintaining today. But what needs to be made clear today is the falsity of the argument that you reiterate that the Government intends to dismantle teaching in rural areas; an argument that falls by its own weight when it submits itself to the judgment of reality. As you know, the population of Galicia concentrated in rural areas — we mean all those municipalities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants by rural means — represents 29.53 % of the total population of Greece. And, if we're talking about the student who is studying in the Italian countryside, it represents 18.6% of the total of Galician students. Well, curiously, the educational centres located in the rural region of Galicia — i.e. in the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants — represent 44.36% of Galicia's educational centres. He spoke this morning in Hannah Arendt's Chamber and his conception of truth and lies. Well, it is appropriate for this debate to also collect that reference and apply it to what the opposition has been saying about rural education. Arendt spoke in his work The truth and lie in the politics of fatal arrogance which is supposed to ennoble the world to theory through lies. And you are again and again repeating the lie of the dismantling of teaching in rural areas with the intention that that infinite repetition of the lie ends by trying to convert this lie into truth. But as you know well, and as the Galician society is responsible for showing them over and over again whenever it has occasion, deception always goes back to reality. From the Popular Parliamentary Group we sincerely believe that rural education in Galicia is a good teaching, thanks, among other things, to the efforts of administration, the professionalism of teachers and the involvement of the entire educational community. Now, this does not imply that the Administration, in the exercise of its competence, does not have to make decisions to reorganize the structure and supply of this service and to ensure its sustainability and quality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, rural education is guaranteed in Galicia both at the level of budgets and at the level of professionals, and always taking into account the demographic and socio-economic reality in order to ensure that this service is, as it is, of great quality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u147	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the motion, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u148	First, accept and thank the Socialist Group and the BNG Group for our motion. Mr. Álvarez, I'm sorry, I didn't just understand part of your speech because, as I know, nobody usually makes a statement about the amendments until the reply is the usual functioning in this House. Then it will be in the reply when you pronounce me on the amendments. I have nothing to say, I don't know, he intended to confuse the amendment of the BNG with our own when, or we don't understand it well, or we didn't seem very consistent. BNG may present the amendments it considers, and then we'll say what's right or not, they're not interrelated. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] We haven't had a chance to talk to the BNG partners yet, but we'll look for a deal because we understand they're compatible. What we can do is we'd be willing to accept point 1 and point 4 as adding them to our motion. Why do we present an amendment to our motion? It's because we understand that if we compare content, it's practically identical what we've presented to the present, it's just expressed differently that we understood it to make it more understandable. In any case, we'll look for a transaction that will, of course, be commented upon. As far as Mr. Fernández Gil's words are concerned, what do you want me to tell him? Here we have to listen to everything. This morning we hear that we want to close the factories in Galicia, then we hear that we want to empty the schools... and total, why? Why am I going to answer? Why are we going to waste our time answering a bunch of burdas and so stupid simplifications that don't lead anywhere? Then it doesn't matter. You may waste your time, the data is what they are. We all know that there are 200 units less in a decade, 200 schools less in a decade, so let's give him what he wants. You didn't want to explain why you didn't want to support a specific rural education plan, and not as usual does your constant refusal to all the proposals of the opposition groups. Of course, once again, his deeds define us much more than his words. And in this case your refusal is another proof — one of so many — of the hair boot that involves the entire citizenship of Galicia that country's legislation. As we understand rural legislation, it should be the legislation of people living in rural areas, because otherwise it doesn't seem to make much sense. It should be the legislation to guarantee the rights of people living in rural areas; to make every effort to improve the quality of life of these people. Are you satisfied? What results from the people's party's rural legislation is a beautiful slogan, smoke and nothing else, which they've used to us. It's a shame! because, as I said in the first part of my speech, rural school is not only an educational model, it demonstrates effectiveness, it has many other benefits, also social. Studies have shown that rural schools have important benefits on the socialization of children and children, close and fluid relationships between the educational community and teachers — something that you do not like very much. But it's true that these centers also have problems, and do you know what's the main thing? The main thing is the abandonment of the People's Party's Government. The main thing is what we just checked out here. Like you: words, slogans, everyone you want. Now, when we have to put resources on the table, the commitment to rural life remains in bottled water.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. If there's a transaction, he'll bring it in. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the financing of the International Compensation Fund
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u150	This motion has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u151	To formulate the motion you have the floor Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u152	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Indeed, before the summer, in the last plenary we had the opportunity to speak to the Councillor of Fairy on this subject. We wanted to draw attention to the importance of the International Compensation Fund as a regional policy instrument in Spain. This is an instrument, a fund, which is provided for in the Spanish Constitution. It therefore has the backing to be developed because the Magna Charter of 1978 so obliges it, but in recent times, above all, it has had an excessively lenient operation, with a remarkable fall in the volume of resources available to all autonomous communities. He was more accused still in Galicia because we were losing weight because of the characteristics of the distribution that contemplates the background, however, this did not really arouse concern among the autonomous communities benefiting from it. We gave him the following explanation. As European funds occupied a similar space — let us say — as to being the financial foundation of regional development, and they were still at the disposal of most autonomous communities today, those that are also recipients of the fund, no one had too much to worry about because there were sufficient resources to promote investment policies in the territory they had as their objective — for this is what regional policy serves — to promote the medium and long-term economic convergence of the less developed regions in relation to the earlier regions. In the debate that took place in the last plenary session before the summer, there was a certain discussion on how this instrument should fit in with regard to self-financing. Now we see that in the amendment of the People's Party this appears again. I have explained from that point of view — and it seems to me that the People's Group is doing well in this regard — that, in my view, they are parallel ways, they are complementary. The International Compensation Fund should not be part of the system of self-financing because it is not about financing services, but rather about improving the conditions by which economic growth must be greater in Galicia than in Spain as a whole to facilitate the process of convergence, and that this affects more with the provision of public capital or, in any case, infrastructure and other such instruments that facilitate private investment, which also facilitate greater productivity in Galicia. I think we can agree on that, and that would enable us to move forward in the other aspects of the motion that I shall now comment on. As a result of the inquiry, we have to make a proposal as to how we want this fund to be. For that I think we share that must substantially increase its importance, firstly, in quantitative terms. We can disagree to where, but I think that shouldn't be an element of dispute. This will have to be negotiated with the other autonomous communities, it will have to be negotiated with the General Administration of the State. So it's not the same, but we can't determine from here in this House where to place the placard. We need to know that there must be a few minimums, but from these minimums we will all be in favour of increasing the resources available to autonomous communities, including Galicia, for this. So there's also the possibility of reaching an agreement. There must also be a qualitative change. The background, just due to the weakness of the resources being applied, has stopped having a real role in regional development. It was simply, at last, a cruising that applied to some investments when it was necessary to complete the amount of resources that would put Galician Union through other means, either through its own funds or through its own European funds, which, from a certain point of time, were also placed alongside the fund to finance some investments. We believe that this should not be the case, that it should become an instrument for regional convergence, a real instrument of regional policy, as European funds are today. And for that you must rely on this when you define how to do it. We were commenting: a multi-year reference, a planning strategy, which must be for the set of Spain but also from below to above, from autonomous communities, starting with the master lines that decide parliaments, and then a regional strategic plan — the application of the resources of the background must be here. And, of course, to avoid one of their recent problems — which is the enormous variability of their resources and the falling into bites of recent years — we believe that the determination of the resources of the fund must be linked to a stable variable — such as the non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community or similar — rather than to the new civil investment of the State as it happens today. And why not this? Why not the state's new civilian investment? Because, on the one hand, the transfer of spending powers to autonomous communities reduces the state's new civilian investment. Secondly, because in times of crisis investment is the first concept to be adjusted — and in addition dramatically these years, as we have seen — and therefore linked it to new civil investment is the guarantee that there will be too procedural behaviour of the resources of the fund. And thirdly, because the General Administration of the State in the last two years has had the habit of increasing the amount of investment that it manages through entities that do not consolidate — we have — within the boundaries of the Administration, and thus weakening the amount on which that percentage is applied, which then gives rise to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. As a result, we need another reference variable, and we propose non-financial expenditure. Finally, I think we must also talk about the selection of beneficiary communities and the distribution variables of the fund. Today there is no criterion to determine which communities are the beneficiaries, they are the same as they were at the moment, and from that they are bringing themselves to the present day without anyone noticing that some of them, in per capita income, are today above the average of the state. They're still receiving the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, although they shouldn't, because the background is created for other things, for example for convergence, and these have already converged. And yet they're still receiving the funds because there's a nominal list of autonomous communities that's there and nobody's noticed. Secondly, the criteria for distribution. Today we apply two: first, redistributive; i.e., they receive more resources than those communities that are more distant from the average income per inhabitant in Spain -- it seems to us well -- and secondly, purely distributive variables that have to do with other elements such as the cost of services or criteria of necessity. In the amendment of the People's Party I note that they refer to the settlement of the people — it seems to me an interesting idea — that one can collect, without any doubt, and that it would make the negotiation that must be established with the Tax and Financial Policy Council and with the Ministry the interests of Galicia are better defended. There is also a BNG amendment that, above all in its final part, can be incorporated into this transaction in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u153	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u154	Good afternoon. In connection with a question which Mr Leicea, himself now reminded of in the debate on the question, he was in favour of not mixing this debate with the financing model. It's not my claim or my group's. In part we share some of the nuances that he introduces, but we really think that, being in the Greek Parliament and having a political debate on this issue, we have to assume that the political background of this issue is, in a way, part of the same debate that we started today, the debate on the role that Galicia should play on the state board and the imperative necessity — given the failure of the current status — of overcoming it and going beyond it. We therefore believe that the debate of the International Compensation Fund, in a way, must also be part of that global debate, which is not only the model of exclusive financing — also another type of instrument — but also the imperative need to transform our economic relationship with the Spanish State. A relationship in which, far from an apparent real decentralization, what we see is a decentralization of expenses; now, of income, it's already another matter. We see in this element — as in so many others — the proof of one of those holes in a system of absolutely centralist and unequal relations. Let us remember — and Mr Leicega reminded us too — that the Interterritorial Compensation Fund was born with this sacrosanct and unquestionable 1978 Constitution. Since then, we have looked at the historical series and we see how it has experienced since its birth a gradual evolution, moving further away from GDP growth at state nominal market prices. It has not, indeed, been the centre of the political agenda, but it is not the first time that debate is being held in this German Parliament on the need to increase the accounts of this fund. However, we think the problem is that the model itself was born to fail. The model itself, of itself, was born with the intention that nothing would change substantially. Evidence of this is that the Committee of Experts itself for the new financing model will again re-examine the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, and do so to tell us that "the practical failure of the constitutional mandate and lack of effectiveness is demonstrated". In short, the insufficiency — the starting point of the motion and that we all share — of this model is something so evident that since the system itself is recognized, and it has not been fulfilled by that constitutional mandate, this democratic shame — which Mrs Soraya would say. It seems a lie, both to mention that Catalonia has to comply with the Constitution, and here the great parties of the State have not complied with the Constitution on this merits, at last! We also see that new scene that will be on the part of this group of experts and the Spanish State. Scene that some kind of change will be made for this background to finally meet. But forty years later from that sacred Constitution and from that background, what hope can we have that some change will actually be introduced that actually turns it into a theoretical fund of compensation and development that it is already? So we understand that the starting point of this motion must be a little more demanding. It has to start from what position Galicia will take and which is the minimum demanded for us. So, in that sense, it's a bit of a move towards our amendment, to mark a time horizon; a decade seems to us a fairly broad horizon to demand that fulfilment of an improvement of this kind of tool. And of course we share that we have to demand a substantial increase in funds. But, really, you're part of the last three years, where these accounts differ minimally, and the total is the same. By calculating with your proposal, we calculated that it would result in a fund of something more than 2,000 million euros, of which Galicia could receive about 10%, about 221 million or so. For Galicia this would be approximately 2.6% of the non-financial expenditure paid, currently is 0.5%. So we propose to go further and mark that 2% of non-financial jobs, which would result in about a volume of EUR 432 million. I brought Excel. As I tell Mrs. Pontón that she doesn't mind bringing the papers, I leave you Excel with no problem at all. In this short time that I'm left, just add the reflection that, although this I'm thinking is not decided in Galicia — which also realizes our dependence on this aspect of decision-making -- we understand that it should be the point at which we should aspire. We thought it would be foolish, it would be inappropriate, to limit ourselves to simply entrusting us to some kind of negotiation that adjusts a little bit this background but that eventually leads us to ostracism and the forty more years of non-compliance with a tool that, of course, is far from fulfilling those objective theories that have been marked. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u156	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We've come today to debate or talk about a motion that brings cause to an inquiry that was made to the councilman of Fairy before the summer. And we're going to talk about an important issue, which is regional convergence in Spain. At a time like what we live in these days, there is no doubt that it is a suitable subject, because it shows us how the concept of a nation-country that constitutes the Spanish Constitution also determines the existence of instruments that favor communities with lower or lower income levels; ultimately, instruments of solidarity. Let's talk a little bit about the Constitution. See, Article 2 of the Constitution speaks of the principle of solidarity between territories. In accordance with this principle, Article 138.1 provides that the State must ensure that an adequate and fair economic balance is established between the various parts of the Spanish territory. And with the aim of correcting the essential economic imbalances, Article 158(2) provides for the formation of a compensation fund for investment expenses to be distributed among the autonomous communities by the General Courts. This is what we are talking about today, about solidarity between parts of Spanish territory. The ones who have the most, they have to bring money for the ones who have the least. After a first phase in which he also served another purpose — the Socialist Party's spokesman has already indicated it — the Interterritorial Compensation Fund is configured as a mechanism for promoting the economic development of the less-income Spanish regions, also in the case of Galicia since the 1990 reform. This instrument and others, fundamentally European, have managed to bring about a process of convergence of our level of income in the last 20 years with regard to the Spanish average. Galicia alone could not have made this convergence without the solidarity of both the Spanish state and the European Union as a whole. The fact is, over time, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund has been losing some of its importance in this principle of solidarity and in this formula of convergence. By talking a little about the money and the variation in the fund, we can talk about that until 2010 we are in the whole of the autonomous communities that would benefit, speaking of more than EUR 1 billion. From 2010 onwards, there has been a decline, and at present we have reached 432 million euros — of those who spoke the voice of the Block — but for the whole of the autonomous communities that would benefit. As far as Galicia is concerned, the fund has reached the Autonomous Community annually over the period 1990-2013 an average of EUR 194 million — I repeat — for investment projects as a result of the principle of solidarity between territories. At the moment, the amount you have in the distribution is EUR 42 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in an autonomous funding debate where the internal instruments of regional policy have to be more relevant, we still need the help of the rest of the Spanish State. After this approximation and emphasis, of the importance that the International Compensation Fund can have as a mechanism for redistribution between regions that are part of the Spanish State's whole, I will try to argue our amendment clearly — clearly Mr Leicega — that we essentially agree with the motion put forward by the Socialist Party of Galicia. First of all, we believe that the debate on the International Compensation Fund must be a post-reform debate on the system of self-financing which is currently under way, but for a reason to facilitate negotiation. We'll close the autonomic funding first and then we'll talk about the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. Because, if not, we risk that other autonomous communities will add up to the accounts we are receiving. We also agreed with the Socialist Party on the need for the fund to become a powerful and effective instrument for regional development, especially as a result of the fall in funds from the European Union. For that, it is necessary to substantially increase your initial staffing. We also consider it appropriate to collect as a basis the non-financial expenditure of the General Government of the State. We understand that there has to be a substantial increase. And here I am surprised -- and I have to tell you, Mrs. Noa Presas -- the amendment tabled by the Block, especially in a plenary where we were told about the coupon and told us that the German Autonomous Community had enough income. So why do we want to increase our participation in the Interterritorial Compensation Fund? If that's what you say, what we have to do is take money from Galicia and start applying that principle of solidarity that they applied with us and distribute it to other poorer regions. If it's true what you say, that I, according to what was spoken in the morning, tell them that it doesn't match the reality of the figures. Finally — and in order to finish my speech — I also tell the Socialist Party that we agree with the criteria for allocation, although we make a special impact on the settlement, so that we can see the importance of spending on our Autonomous Community the dispersion of our population. And we also understand that there is a need for strategic orientation on the investments in the fund, so we propose in our amendment that this strategic orientation be made through the Tax and Financial Policy Council, where all the autonomous communities are. I'm finishing by asking them not to forget that we're talking about a fund representative of the principle of solidarity between territories that are part of a set that is the Spanish State, which is also helping us in the development of our autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u157	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u158	Good afternoon. I'm going to start by saying that I really enjoyed Noa Presas' intervention, and I even think it brings a lot of positive aspects. I had to close some of the things I was going to say because she said them amazingly, and I think it complements the Socialist Party's initiative, which we shared. This debate shows the contradictions between rhetoric and practice, the enormous distance between what is proclaimed and what is done. Because — I think it is said here — the evolution of the ICF in the last decade — decades, several governments in the middle — is a paradigmatic example of how the great principles are emptied of content by not giving them the resources needed to be brought forward. What we are talking about here today is a fundamental instrument — it has been said — to achieve an economic objective that appears — here I had written sacrosanct, tachein — in the Spanish Constitution, which is the territorial rebalancing. That is, to push for greater growth in less-income territories — as is the case in our country — to bring them closer to the richest. It is evidence that in the Spanish State, since it exists, there is a problem — as in other states — of economic inequality, of territorial imbalance, of differences in income levels, and, in part, that is one of the bases that explain the problems of territorial fit that the Spanish State has. Hence the constitutional mandate, hence the recognition in the Spanish Constitution that there is a problem to be solved, and for that reason the Interterritorial Compensation Fund is born. Here are the principles. We have a problem of inequality, we create an instrument to correct that inequality, we fight territorial imbalance. We all agree with this principle. But let's go down from words to facts, from principles to resources. In 2017 — as it has been said — that is EUR 45 million. That, in 2008, was 205 million euros. 45 million euros, 430 million euros to meet that fundamental goal set out in the Spanish Constitution is a joke, it's a coat of hair. So we have a great principle: territorial equality, but we will beat it when we don't give it the resources. Because those figures, obviously, do not serve to combat the deep, structural, historical, economic, demographic causes behind the imbalances. I'm going to say a great phrase: great principles not endowed with funds for them are a scam in democratic terms. The FCI is the fundamental instrument for fulfilling a constitutional mandate, but it is the path of irrelevance. We all agree on that: we have the instrument of rebalancing that goes the way of irrelevance, if it's not in that stadium anymore. And, as Noa Presas said, here is respect for the Spanish Constitution, here too!, because it appears — the spokesperson of the People's Party — in three articles of the Constitution. All right! We have lowered to EUR 430 million the entire fulfilment of the Constitution and we rise to the principle. The Compensation Fund is a victim of more than austerity and cuts. In 2008, he was gifted with EUR 1.337 million and now 432, and that in nominal figures. When the price variation is taken into account, because the price change is extraordinary; an unacceptable slope that moves to our country, because we've just received 203 million euros to 45. Does anyone think that these resources can combat the structural causes of territorial imbalance? Well, that's why it's hard to understand how this retreat, both in resources and in the principle of rebalancing itself, has been given without just public debate. And, of course, with the agreement and the complicity of the autonomous and central governments since the year 2009 the FCI has shrunk a little bit. Well, we are going to vote in favour of this amendment, this initiative of the Socialist Party, because we are generally in agreement, with an exception — which was also quantified by the BNG — five times more the Fund would involve bringing it to nominal levels — hence lower, in real terms — than it had in 2008. But the Socialist Party's initiative clearly states that in the next period there will be fewer European funds to develop territorial rebalancing policies. And then, if there isn't going to be these European funds, we need to strengthen the Interterritorial Compensation Fund necessarily. And in that sense to go back to the level we had in the year 2008 and recover the cut in this case is insufficient. It's over, Mr. President. We do defend that in this element where our country has a lot to play has to be part of the new formulation of the self-financing model. I do not say at the time when we have to start this debate, but that variable has to be included in the debate is obvious. And in quantitative terms, we think it should be closer to 400 million euros than the 203 that go on the initiative. As the BNG went that way, as perfect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u159	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Parliamentary group responsible for the motion, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u160	Yes, if I very much like the position of both the BNG Group and the En Marea Group, because I see that the sacrosanct Constitution asks — and I agree — is that it must be fulfilled in its functions; it seems to me well. This is what it is, I think it's okay, I think it should be. And where there are shortcomings of compliance we have to be vigilant and careful to get them out and get them to be met, because it's clear that the text itself has no materiality like this; we have to do a political work in that sense. But I don't want to get into that debate, I want to go into the other, into regional politics. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that Spain in the years of growth—1960-1970, until the autonomous communities started—was becoming unbalanced, concentrating income and wealth production in some autonomous communities, starting from the entry into operation of the autonomous state, this is no longer taking place. So, something about the autonomous state has to do with the fact that those less advanced autonomous communities managed to keep the guy. And, more importantly, our per capita income is constantly progressing and we are going to approach convergence to a point, which is the point of this crisis, where, at last, it's precisely why we need to review mechanisms and instruments again. And entering the bottom of the matter, why stay in 400? Let's put a lot more, put 2,000, 3,000. We can put it all in place, but we have to be minimally realistic, we have to set ourselves targets that are acceptable not only for us but that are supported by state finances and the other autonomous communities that are going to participate in the negotiation. So, I say, man, if we can get fivefold, we can recover the lost during the time of the crisis, because you're thinking about Galicia, but I wasn't thinking about Galicia when I put those percentages, I was thinking about the Global Fund, about the Global Fund and then about its distribution. Because Galicia in recent times has also lost participation percentages in the Fund because of the way its application should be calculated. So if we're talking about the Global Fund, when we put those references, we're going up a lot and we're getting closer to the Global Fund that you're proposing. And then the distribution, which clearly has to be negotiated with other autonomous communities. But I think incorporating variables of population settlement gives us a certain strength in negotiation, and so we have to do it. I propose that you make a transaction with all the amendments tabled. I'm going to share that transaction, which I think is acceptable, and from there I hope that there will be an agreement from all the groups, because I think this is a matter where we all say it coincides and that it can be an interesting element to pose in the negotiation once the one closes the one of autonomous funding, because if this is not going to be used as a compensation mechanism within the negotiation of autonomous financing and can cause us some prejudice instead of favouring us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u161	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to professional intrusion in the field of health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u162	An amendment has been tabled by the EMEA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u163	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u164	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. We brought this motion today, fruit of the interpellation we made two months ago, to us of great interest. It is true that the PP has flooded the Welsh health policy with some nonsense this summer but, well, we have time tomorrow morning to discuss it, and it remains a matter of interest. We believe that it is possible, from that question and from that debate, to have a few proposals that can, from our point of view, improve the situation on health intrusion. In that interrogation there were some agreements, undoubtedly, and there were some disagreements, as is normal. So I was able to review and so we felt in that debate of the inquiry, we gathered some agreements, as there is a legal basis to deal with the problem of intrusion and that we all share that it is a problem in the health system. There is a legal basis in the Health Personnel Management Act, in the Criminal Code, there is Royal Decree 1277/2003 on the authorizations of centres... well, there are several issues and there has been a People's Party PNL on deceptive advertising. And it's true that there are bases to deal with the problem from a legal point of view. There is also a social basis for some tolerance and about it may be that a social relaxation about the problem of intrusion. And the counselor — if I didn't understand him correctly at the time — said he shared that thought. Therefore, the existence of a legal basis for dealing with it and the existence of a problem of social tolerance we share. There was, from our point of view, a political-based problem about health intrusion which, of course, we do not share. And what's the problem we see? For since the last interpellation, what we see is that for the advisor at the moment — and we understand that for the whole Government of the Union — the political base is the responsibility of three collectives or social agents: firstly, professional schools, who have to have records and who are not who or do not facilitate those records — according to what has been said —; secondly, of citizenship, which has to denounce; and thirdly, of scientists, supposedly. He quoted here -- and I thought it was very interesting to recover it -- an article from a university professor who published himself in a newspaper at the time, and said, "I fully agree, and I think you too," referring to me. I'll see you soon enough that I don't agree with the article. He said about scientists: "It is up to scientists, unable to educate and disseminate well about what we do, that of fighting intrusion." I repeat: "inability to educate and disseminate well about what we do." Well, I disagree. I don't know if the counselor is — who said he was totally in agreement —. The Greek scientists — and in more places than Galicia — do an unprovoked work in favour of science, not only of developing science, but of its dissemination, of its dissemination, of its teaching. What would be ours without the scientists? I know you agree that they don't educate and they don't spread well. And I was surprised they announced it and said they're totally in agreement with it, but at least I appreciate the sincerity. Because it's obvious that you scientists and research don't have it very well, but I appreciate you saying it. We don't agree on that. It's not the fault of scientists, who do extraordinary work, even though you reduce all the funds every year. They do extraordinary work in education and outreach. [[Murmurs.]] So I think that's important to point it out. Professional colleges, citizenship and scientists. Is there any fault of the Joint Government? No, of course he didn't assume it. This is like Tip and Coll. We'll talk about the government tomorrow. There was a problem in professional schools, there was a problem with citizenship and there was a problem with scientists, but Junta has no responsibility. From our point of view, if it exists, and that's why we argued about it at that time, and today we continue to argue that it does exist. And on the basis that we defend that it does exist? Well, in those things we didn't agree with. First of all, I quoted here the other day — two replicas and I was not challenged; I would be grateful if someone was able to consult the matter, because they have been there two months since I proposed it — that the Igape subsidized a company, in an entrepreneur support program, which announced services for those who had no health clearance. I commented here, and not only did I comment on it, but there are written claims registered at the board of Galicia, in several councils, on this subject. There is no answer yet, beyond that truth is more shameful than the fact itself, which is that Junta does not deal with the headings and contents of what it grants, at least in that program. Surprising! when the program says you work and you helped even set the rates. The board has subsidised a company and helped it set the rates of its services, but it says it doesn't know what services it has. He put charges on something that says he doesn't know what it is. In any case, there was public money for a company that practiced health intrusion and no one took action on it. And I want to know if there might be an agreement between the groups so that this can never happen again. From our point of view, this is absolutely unacceptable. There was another disagreement. The advisor quoted — literally — as follows: "A hundred percent of the claims received are answered." And he literally quoted: "30 claims received..." —30, it's in the minutes of the debate of the interpellation -- "...and they've been dealt with all." Some professional school — I've mentioned only one —... A professional school has registered — it's written and they have it in the Government of Unity, I think they can facilitate it — 31 at the same time as it was mentioned, from the end of 2015 to 2017. One professional school quoted 31 -- the counselor said 30 in total -- I suppose those of the other schools are left. 31 in front of 30, 30 of all, but there's a school that claimed 31 times. [[Murmurs.]] What's very important is not to lie about data, it's very important. And in addition, there is no agreement that the Greek health situation makes the problem difficult and feeds on the fact that there is health intrusion. Why? Because a health care that is the third most valued by citizens from all over Spain, a health that cuts into services, a health that is far away from their citizens, a health that is less and less personal, that has less and less resources to care for their staff, what encourages people who have needs, when they have to seek a solution — and often they are desperate, sick, they are given appointments within a year or a year and a half— and their health all they do is change posters, what they do is go to specialists—that they believe they are specialists; even some of them have the advantages of the Galician Union that subsidize their business—to meet their needs. We don't blame the citizen for trying to solve a health problem — which is probably the most sacred thing people have — that his system doesn't solve because of bad management, as you're seeing. [[Applause]] So we may not share this, but the precarious situation of Greek health makes this one one of the Spanish communities, if not the one else — because it is difficult to have very specific formal data — which has the most problem with labour intrusism. But what are we going to suggest to a government — and a party that supports it — that subsidizes initiatives of labour intrusion and gives no answer? In any case, we bring here this motion which raises four questions, and essentially among them all the essential issue is a real compromise: seriousness. Because we have the perception that there is no real commitment on this matter. There's a lot of common places: we have to do, it's very important... everything is very important... I remind you that when everything is very important nothing is. "It's very important," "we have to do," "we have to say," "it's already done"—which is often said—... seriousness and real commitment. First of all, we're thinking of awareness, a more popular work, more respect for professionals, basically not to come here and assume an article that says scientists do wrong and disseminate badly. That also reduces the quality of scientists, of course it contributes! If a counselor goes up here to say that he fully shares a press article that says and speaks ill of scientists in our country, what will citizens think when their advisors, their government, speak ill of them? Therefore, awareness, we must even begin with the Government of the United States. Second, resources, because it's very nice to make advertising and propaganda, but it's more beautiful to put time and money. Resources to medical inspectors who do a great job but who need resources to meet all claims. And don't come here to say that all the claims are handled — 30 — when one professional school presents more of them, one! and I don't want to ask how many more professional schools have filed claims. Maybe they told me the others showed up negatives and that's why we got 31 to 30. More resources, more awareness. Third, collaborate with professional colleges. We know you can blame them. If you can blame everyone, man, but professional schools work tirelessly to defend their profession. Most of the time they spend with people in professional schools, regardless of whether there are workers in them... They're people who take time from their personal lives and even from their work to collaborate in professional schools. Let's not blame them for not doing the work that a government has to do; see if they're going to be responsible for a problem of health intrusion. And fourthly, control, because it is unacceptable for a government to subsidize activities of health intrusion because of a health problem, because of a problem of social commitment and also because of a tax problem — which is also so — because we are subsidizing an activity that is fraudulent in its exercise and therefore contributing to an economic problem. I know this from economy B is something they don't like to share, but it's important that they do it, even if it's for the benefit of others. In any case, you have to stay away from common places and do it; it's important to do it and move. We bring this motion that we believe that it proposes really sensible things, not excessively aggressive, but simply to really intervene in the problem, many of them without the need for resources, is a matter of commitment. And we think it's important to get out of this political immobilism, because the perception is that yes, it's very important, yes, there's a lot to do, yes, but nothing is done, and so we never solve the problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u165	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u166	Thank you, President. For it is clear that intrusion is an obvious problem that affects both professionals and people treated by false and false professionals. We too felt few times or the number of cases found by the Council since 2015, according to the Health Counsellor, given that some complaints, in addition, ended in some quite famous cases last year with a prison sentence. He'd pile up that sound many more cases just with that fake professional. Of course, awareness-raising and information are relevant and it seems good to us that they are introduced into the proposal. And, in fact, as you move here, responsibility cannot be transferred to professionals, researchers and researchers, educators and educators, when there is a responsibility for education also by the Health Council in the field of education, and logically inspection. It is also clear to us that we need to provide resources for this inspection for the control of private businesses. In addition, it seems to us that it should be obvious that the Board could not support initiatives — academics, centres or clinics — that offer services in cases of intrusion, as it has just been moved here. It looks like it's not being met or at least there's no strict observance of what the rules are. In the case of inspection resources, the reality is that intrusion — if it has been commented upon — is virtually entirely in the private company. And it is precisely private health a business on the rise — as we are seeing — also encouraged by the budget cuts of public health. You already know your lordships — and anyone in your house — that a list of large or growing expectations undoubtedly makes that for some specialties — or even for some proofs — some people end up going to private services. Some of the collectives who most denounce cases of intrusion are also professional, in this case of physiotherapy, dentistry or physiology, who are professions that offer services that are rarely covered, besides, by public service or by public service. The dentistry benefits, for example, have been discussed in this House on several occasions, and the lack of coverage of most of what should be the portfolio in adults also makes them have to go to a private service. Benefits that aren't covered either, for example, in the case of physiology, or that are, of course, very limited in the case of physiotherapy, which is also a very common source of professional intrusion. And yet, in many cases, Junta makes a drop in its inspection functions; that is, in any case there should be inspection, obviously, but it should be more in the services that have more attention within the private, and the Galician board should be concerned about how they are working. In addition, it should be recalled that the Board of Auditors has warned — although it has to do with the concerted and not directly with the private — in the last report — and we have moved it — that there are no specific requirements for the management of the benefit, and in particular they are not regulated — I quote textually — "the conditions of resources or the quality of care and control indicators are not established". So, if in concert with Junta is not controlling any kind of aspect either demanding or marking control indicators, what can we expect from private clinics, centers and even academies that offer health-related studies? So it seems to us that the proposals that are being moved in this motion are good, and we either expand or make a proposal to expand in concrete the question of inspection itself in relation to health advertising. Because it's true that in addition to our own services, we have a problem, we have a vacuum, as far as advertising is concerned. It's quite important, and In Marea is actually working on a proposal related to this matter. For example, the most common is health courses offered in the field of the learning of qualifications that are not granted. For example, one that is quite common is that you offer the learning of osteopathy, massages, etc., when what you are offering really has nothing to do with a regulated titration, offering, in addition, a future work that cannot be granted related to a titration and also representing a fraud to people who can be treated by these people who will be trained as well as to the people themselves who have studied a career, in this case that of physiotherapy — to put an example — related to that matter. Or there are centres, for example, which offer services that do not have - we also see it in Commission 5th, Health and Social Policy - for example, some residences of older and dependents. In this case, we denounce a home of older people, the Home Happy Grandpas, who offered health services that he didn't have. I mean, there's also intrusion because then there are other professionals who carry out these responsibilities, in this case tasks that are responsible for health personnel. So we understand that the Galician Union should take care of this kind of circumstances and, of course, in something that is its competence, it should be precisely concerned about inspection in private clinics and also about health advertising related to this. In that sense, we will support this motion. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u168	Good afternoon to all and to all. And good afternoon to the professionals who accompany us from the rostrum. Indeed, there is little concern about the situation of intrusion in our country. The existence of bad practices in occupational activities directly health or pseudo-sanitary is a clear reality in many collectives. Some of these groups have been contacted by the parliamentary groups represented here in the Galician Parliament to move their concern about matters related to their profession and, in particular, with this situation of intrusion and misleading advertising, which are two issues that are very closely related to each other. Physiotherapists, podologists, dentists or speech therapists were some of the groups that met here in this Parliament with parliamentary groups. What are these groups moving us? An increasingly evident situation, increasingly evident, and fundamentally also in a context where health and health-related services are an increasingly juicy business niche. There's nothing more to go out to the streets of our country and see how they've been proliferation ads than abundant clinics of all kinds of services. And we have a situation of defence in the face of this situation. Many times what is asked is that they be the ones who denounce — so to speak — whether they are the ones who provide evidence that certain clinicians or professionals do not have the right qualifications to give the benefit they give and that it is very easy to skip the regulations. They denounce a lack of force in the proceedings and sanctions. There are people who, in many cases, after twenty years of proven practice of intrusion, have some really scalable sanctions — of 4,000 or 5,000 euros — with which, of course, they are on their own. And they therefore denounce the lack of inspectoral and sanctioning activity. It is a situation that has consequences for professionals insofar as they hold a profession for which they have their official qualifications required, but it is also a situation with consequences for the population, because the population receiving these services is also in a situation of non-defense, because in many cases they do not know whether these people who are attending them are in possession of that title or whether these therapies, these techniques that they offer, actually correspond to some scientific basis or some kind of evidence that shows their effectiveness; pseudo-scientific content, unaccredited content and in many cases even dangerous, hidden behind that deceptive advertising of double sense. And also, of course, there are tax and legal consequences. We're also talking about the fact that behind all this intrusion there is a fiscal consequence, and it's the fact that you're not paying the taxes that people who are legally established pay for benefits with a given rating; others do not. So we're talking about people and companies acting outside the law. And, of course, at the BNG we consider -- and we agree with the professionals -- that you are not acting either with precise force or with precise intensity. We are talking about the fact that it would be desirable for many of these practices to be deeply rooted — and that it seems that the population does not care about the risk they are facing — to be the subject of a question that also addresses the initiative we are discussing, which is the question of information and citizenship training so that they are aware of the risks they are taking and that they are aware that there are no miracle techniques, that there are no miracle recipes for issues that are offered in many cases. Well, of course, we agree that this situation must be a matter of concern and occupation. BNG will vote in favour of this initiative that the Socialist Party brings here today. I also announce that, if it is not approved, we will continue to insist on the matter. And also on the question that, in the case of approval, resources need to be placed. It's not enough to say "concern us" but then you have to take care of yourself, and it means putting resources on the table. And I also announce that the BNG will demand that the budgets of the Board for 2018 include matches for this issue that we are debating today, which is for the fight against intrusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u170	And we also hope that the People's Party will not only be satisfied with the initiative that it has shifted its responsibility to the Government of the State on the issue of misleading advertising, that it will take one more step — as you said it would do if such initiatives were brought forward — and that today it will be able to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u172	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the People's Group it is essential to ensure the health of citizenship. I would like to remind you that the Galician Union is investing most of its budget in health; 4 out of every 10 euros of the Galician Union budget are going to stop the Greek public health. The awareness and education of citizenship for the prevention of professional intrusion, as well as the demystification of supposed techniques and alternative therapies, are permanently present in the government roadmap of Galician Union and, of course, also in the Council of Health. But always focusing on this is everyone's job. To denounce health intrusion is the responsibility of each and every one of us, as it endangers our health. Health education is essential and information is transmitted to citizens; in this sense, the Education Council is also present. Within the package of self-sustaining self-sustaining materials that will be given in this next course in the Greek educational centres is responsible for consumption. In order to avoid the proliferation of such pseudo-scientific practices, better education — including health — needs to be promoted and adequate information and control mechanisms are provided. The name "health professional" is described in Law 44/2003 on the management of health professions. The exercise of any of the health professions outside the law constitutes an attack on the health and integrity of persons, and the Criminal Code as set out in Article 403, with penalties for the person performing improper acts of a profession without having a corresponding academic title and recognized in Spain. With regard to the medical inspection body, these professionals carry out the control and supervision work in the authorised health centres, and this is done well on their own initiative, as well as the part-session — basically of professional schools — as well as private schools. If, as a result of this inspection activity, a situation of professional intrusion has been detected, an inspection document shall be opened and acted accordingly. And surely, 100% of the complaints received are handled, Mr. Torrado, timely and faithfully by the inspection service. Health inspectors shall supervise authorised health centres or other centres where there is a complaint of suspicion of health activities. In all cases they also have jurisdiction in this both Consumption and, finally, the Prosecutor's Office, but it is essential that the complaint in case of suspicion of intrusion. Speaking of professional schools, professional health schools are public corporations that have their own statutes and standards to pursue the fraudulent exercise of the profession. And the register of health professionals is mandatory for professional schools. The Health Council works constantly with professional schools, as they assume the role of defending the legitimate interests of health professions. In addition, the Health Council has published on its website the relationship of centres, establishments and services that are licensed, so anyone can know at any time whether a health centre has or does not have health clearance. Of course, the best measure that can be taken is to inform the population of whom it is authorized to perform a health activity. This is the key issue to avoiding intrusion. Mr. Torado, everything you ask for in your motion, whether it's being done or is meaningless. Look, you ask for professional respect and question the work of the medical inspectors, the criteria on which they are based to perform their duties. It's missing the truth, it cheats on data. He calls for collaboration with professional schools, when there is constant and fluid collaboration between the Council and professional schools. He questioned the granting of aid, grants and programs to support business projects, and when, from the People's Party, in May, we brought to this plenary a proposal on misleading advertising in health to his group, the Galician Socialist Party, did not support it. Mr. Torado, let's be serious. In terms of health, rigor is fundamental, and you deceive, lack the truth and, above all, alarm the population. [[Applause]] Since the People's Party, we have worked hard and rigorously. The Greeks value the health they have. And finally, I remind you that a year ago, once again, a majority government of the People's Party, you're wondering why it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the Group of the BNG and En Marea for their contributions, and for the amendment of En Marea, which we believe adds and completes, and will be clearly accepted. Well, things don't happen because they say things don't happen because they say they do. It's okay to come here, read a text, but it doesn't just happen because it's read. The counsellor — textually speaking —: "A hundred percent of the claims received are dealt with". Written by the Official College of Physiotherapists of Galicia: "In total, from now on, we have filed 31 complaints and we have only responded to 10 of them." All right, you can come out here again and say, "No, tell everybody." There are 31 claims filed by an official school and the councillor here said there was 30. How can you have the face of coming to tell me that I'm wrong? 31! [[Applause]] And it was mentioned here that everyone was answered because it was answered at 30. I mean, 31 is more than 30, and it's just a school. But we're just asking for answers! It's just that we can't do this absurd debate to get here and say, "No, it's up to everyone." But it's 31 claims, and they're written! And it was announced that you answered 30 and there are only 10 answers. Of course we say there's a grant given illicitly, of course there is! Here's the counsellor. The Igape has granted a subsidy to a company — an entrepreneur — which has no authority to carry out the health activity it says it does, and has helped it set the rates of what it does. So they had to know what the contents were. Therefore, Igape has granted help to a company that makes some contents for which it is not enabled. That seems unacceptable to me, and no one gives an answer. And they can come out here and say, "No, it's all right. But it's not about saying it here, is that there's a problem with this situation and nobody gives an answer. It's a fairly easy question to answer, if you want to answer, if you have the data to answer. Now, come here to read Quixote and the laws... of course they read the laws! We took four speeches on this subject, and in the four we said, and we cited the articles of the Health Professionals Management Act that we have to work on. Of course we quote you! We quote them six times, but we have to apply them! They're in the law, let's apply them. Why don't they apply? Why are there no answers about the complaints that are submitted and that are not answered? Why is there no activity on the grants granted by Igape? Why are these things being done that the motion says are not voted in favour? Why are data showing that they are not doing so not discussed? Why don't you argue about what's proposed here and say that it's already done and that the others are wrong? By the way, I'm very upset, Mr. President, to be told that I'm wrong. I say it because of those things that sometimes some Members are called to attention. I've just been accused of cheating, and I'd like to say that if I'm accused of it, if I was told where. Because to say you're wrong and not to say where it's quite complicated; it's very easy, but it's quite cowardly, by the way. Come out here and say somebody's wrong and don't say why he's a coward. I'm going to repeat it, sir, I'm going to repeat it: going out here says another fool and not saying where coward is and is lying, by the way. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] I think it's quite a bit of a productive intervention. I have not yet heard anything about the grant of the Igape, nothing about the unsolved reported cases, nothing about what actions are taking place, nothing about why the initiative is rejected — if it is being done —. Nothing! But that, yes, is very important; intrusion is very important. You with the democratic system are like homeopathy with medicine: homeopathy seems but it's not, and you look something like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u175	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. I was gonna say something. I think the word that was used -- "dealing" -- is a generic reference to a matter, I don't think it was anything personal. I understood, and I was attentive to the debate. I don't think so. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And besides, there's Mrs. Friend, who can corroborate what I'm saying. It was on another subject, I understand. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, it's not good that this kind of vocabulary is used neither here nor here. That's right. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, ease the Presidency's work a little bit. [[Murmurs.]] No one uses them, and that's how they're all much better. [[Murmurs.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u176	Let's vote, if you like. Close the doors, please. We started by voting the motions. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. In this case, we shall vote for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. And I understood that point 2 of the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group could be accepted. Is that so, Mrs. Rodil?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u177	How to add.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u178	Excuse me? Like an addition amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u179	Yes, Mr. Martín? [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept the point vote? All of them separately? [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please, with the micro. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u180	That is to say, I — as Mr Fernández Prado once said — would agree to vote on the third, in any case, separately. But the rest are a whole, as you can see, in addition, when you write your own initiative. Point 2 covers all the initiatives that we propose as a battery. And those go together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u181	Do you accept that transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u182	...in separate, and 2 and 3 on the other side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u183	You don't accept. Well, we vote, then, just like the motion is. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the dismantling of the Renfe-Feve railway services in the territory of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u184	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Luca Chao. The amendment itself is accepted, of course. And there's a transaction, which I'm looking forward to getting me here. I think they could accept point 1 and point 4 of the Galician Nationalist Block as an addendum. Is this the transaction? [[Assentment.]] We voted as soon as we added point 1 and 4 of the Galician Nationalist Block and the proposal it made in Marea. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the activities to be carried out in Junta de Galicia in relation to education policy in rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u185	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga. There's a transaction proposal that has been made to all the spokespersons. Do you accept this transaction? So they're all in agreement. [[Assentment.]] We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the financing of the International Compensation Fund. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u186	Finally, we voted for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. It was accepted as adding the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to professional intrusion in the field of health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u187	The motions have been put to the end. Open the doors, please. We are now debating the fourth item on the agenda, proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the public transport services of passengers by road of general use
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u188	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u189	Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all of us again. The next Friday, day 15, culminates in the implementation of the first phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan with the start of the high school course. And it is certainly curious that the Greek Government implements a first phase of an unknown, non-existent plan, because there is no overall design of a public transport plan in Galicia that allows it to be implemented by phases. Phases are part of a predefined whole, with clear and quantifiable targets, which allow sequencing a global intervention because of its complexity. And this is not the case, there is no such whole plan. It seems even more strange that the Counsellor, in her capacity as a engineering professional, and in her position as responsible for such a complex issue as the public transport of travellers, has not internalized and assumed these basic concepts in a project of this magnitude. If this were the case, he had acted with technical rigour and the logic that implies the design of a new undefined and concrete transport map, he would have been limited to restate the lost rights of the Greeks and the Greeks as a result of the resignation of the concessionaires in August 2016 and continue to provide the service they had granted. He could just rest those rights. The European regulation will allow it, despite its permanent denial, and therefore have more time to address the essential global plan. But he preferred to take the absurd path of indefinition, which neither rests the lost services nor affects the global plan. From our point of view, it was a fearful one-person and one-party decision, with negative consequences in the present and in the future, with those, unfortunately, that we will have to live in times not very far away; a further occurrence of Mr. Feijóo's Counsellor and of the governments in the transport of road travelers to give continuity to a policy of wrong decisions since 2009 and that will again have as victims the people, the Greeks and the Greeks. Yes, it was a unanimous decision, endorsed by Mr. President and the People's Group, empty of humility and loaded with prepotence and sovereignty, in which the Counsellor gave up her responsibility for transport in Galicia to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks to reduce this matter to a purely personal matter; a personal matter which prevails over the collective, in the background and in the forms. It is only thus understood that the chosen procedure was limiting, opaque, without transparency, according to the personal whims of the Counselor. This was done by Law 10/2016 of 19 June, urgent measures for updating the Galician public transport system and the Transport Plan relegated to the annex to that law; the plan, in the annex, to limit the contributions of parliamentary groups, to limit the contributions of the institutions, bodies and collectives concerned. And so it was done with the Resolution of 29 May of the Directorate-General for Mobility, so that public information was submitted to the preliminary drafts for the operation of public regular transport services of general road-use travellers by establishing only and exclusively ten natural days to present allegations — by two weekends on average — a procedure to remain, not to add up; an exclusive procedure; an allergic procedure to contributions; a procedure only and transparent in the limitations which it entails as such. As there was no transparency in the following processes, not a minimum of usual procedures. This is the first time in Galicia's history where the stakes of this contest are not published either in the Official Journal of Galicia or in the Profile of the Contractor. No job modification data, no record the day and time of submission of documentation, no record on the Board's website, no routes, no stops, no schedules. Or isn't there? Or doesn't the Council have them? Who's got them, then? From an administrative point of view, it seems that they invented a new formula out of habit and practice. By the way, does anyone know where the opening papers require the transport regulation and in which it is verified and reflected that the concessionaire has or does not have the means it has offered? Where are they? Don't they know? I'll tell him: no checks have been made. This opaque and darkist procedural attitude has its moment in the singular process of adjudication, preserving an enormous discretion in its own adjudication. But if the procedural level has aroused and raises reasonable doubts as to its elaboration and application, the elaboration of the first phase of the plan has not prompted any. The Counsellor began this process loaded with prejudice, more prone to confront than consent. He preferred to rely on an external burden of dubious legality in his recruitment and even on dubious solvency rather than on transport personnel — central and provincial — and on professional contrasts in transport. It preferred an imposition of the plan — to be done — rather than a collaboration of the sectors involved — councils, trade unions, ANPAs, entrepreneurs or users — for their development. With this attitude, the Counsellor has set the whole transport sector against the plan, as it has been visible throughout the summer. The qualifications you've received deserve to be reproduced — at least some of them — "a marketing operation", "work layoffs and precariousness", "no funding", "cargamos o rural", "catastrophic at the business level", "disaster from the functional point of view", "loss of business tissue, especially in Lugo and Ourense"... It was found that the development of the plan was an exclusive, non-participative process, with more monologue in meetings than dialogue. And the implementation of the plan — with recognised deficiencies, without technical rigor, without economic rigor and without legal rigor — continues its process in the preliminary phase thanks to the immense work of provincial transport services to correct the multiple errors. With this trickling procedure, which can be modified at any time according to the circumstances and without clarity in the design of the plan, the design of the routes, stops, frequencies and timetables which should be included in the concession fees was designed. Alleged to the concessions to the concessionaires and to each council the part that affected them, there were numerous incidents that threatened the operational viability of the first phase of transport at the start of the school; incidences that mainly affected the reality of the service on the territory: removal of routes, incomplete and poorly defined routes, confusing stops, inappropriate schedules, lack of coordination between the various routes... The flood of claims was, and is, besides, innumerable, found, by the adjudicatories themselves and the Council itself. And this situation of organizational chaos, already in discount time so you can operate on the first day of classes. The Councillor takes a desperate step and orders the concessionaires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u192	...which provides the routes, stops, schedules and coordination of their areas of service within three days and to the margins of the concession's own obligations. I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, those excluded from the preparation of the first phase of the Transport Plan were actually those who allowed yesterday — the first day of its deployment — no significant incidents, except that potential users of shared transport had neither knowledge nor routes, stops, nor timetables. The Socialist Group presents this initiative to make...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u194	...a proposal to draw up a new plan diametrically opposed to the elaboration made by the Council itself at this first stage, both in substance and in form, with regard to the procedures, with the maximum participation and the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u195	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u197	You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. From the BNG we understand that in this issue we have missed a great opportunity to open a real debate and a study of an integral public transport plan; a model, ultimately, Greek mobility adapted to the territory. Instead of this opportunity, the Union did what it did was to choose the path of patches, shortcuts, rushes and improvisation. A rush and improvisation that they are, not as the Galician Union says, as a result of the resignation of concessions, but of a succession of wrong decisions made by the German Government between 2009 and 2016. That's the real cause of this rush and improvisation. Joining has also chosen the way of lack of dialogue and participation. And we miss very much not consulting, or taking into account the opinion of the municipalities, as it has been shown, that they are really the best who knows the territory and the demands of the population. And I can give them many examples, but I'm going to put one on them: the eight counties of the County Paradant made a document, transferred it to the Councillor's office, met with the advisor, and all that they asked for was kept in a drawer. The reality is, now, when it's been just over a month since the new concessions were put into operation, everything we've been saying over these months has been confirmed. That is a process full of errors and irregularities; errors — to begin with — for the work of consulting companies. And we want to ask you here -- and we'll also ask you at the committee -- if you're really going to pay those 800,000 euros for the work you've done, which is a real stunt. I don't know if the parliamentary decoration allows us to say this word, but the work these companies have done is a real trick, and they can't afford those contracts for the work they've done wrong, design routes for places where people don't live or where they couldn't pass the buses; or routes with trips on a day's journey and trips back the next day. Also a process full of numerous irregularities. To begin with, the non-compliance by the companies of the means offered in the contracts of the new concessions, or the continuous changes of routes and schedules that have occurred over the course of this time. Every time there were complaints through signatures, through protests, it turns out that they authorized concessionaires to return to the past and re-establish previous concessions. This, of course, doesn't make any sense. Arm this whole mess, this whole mess, to get back the previous concessions. The collection of abusive charges. We reported that 6.90 euros were being charged on the trip between Viana and Verín, when we had to charge 1.40 euros. Interestingly, the next day, the Inspectors of the Board reviewed those lines and they went on to charge 1.40. Failure to provide services. This is happening right now. No provision for assisted services when there are no people at exits. Turns out he's not leaving the bus because there's no one. That is a flagrant breach of the new contracts. Or something that seems even more serious to us, not information that is being given or delivery of the demand transport service, which was in theory the great novelty of this new system, this first phase. Well, you're not doing that either. All of this gave rise to a flood of complaints and complaints by municipalities and by users. Only in the case of the Vilaboa Town Hall were 2,000 signatures collected against those services that began to be provided. In the case of Moaña, 500 claims. That is why we are asking, one of the amendments that we tabled to the Socialist Group's proposal, for an external report to assess the development of the new plan; for a serious assessment to be made and for consultation, of course, on all the affected parties, starting with the municipalities, who are the most directly affected as representatives of the citizenship to which these new services are provided. Another feature of this process was obscurantism, because it really hides very dark interests here. A scurantism that led to the concealment of the documentation of the new contracts, both to this parliamentary group and to many companies that requested it at the headquarters of the Union and to those who told them that there were no staff, that in August we couldn't, that we already saw, that later on. We also demand, through another amendment, that all this documentation be given to all the entities requesting it. And we also want to add our concern about the question of employment, all the uncertainty that is being generated about employment, the loss of jobs, the reduction of wages, the precariousness that is being created with these new concessions. And mention aside deserves the subject of school transport, in addition to the dubious legality that has the procedure they used to terminate contracts, which will eventually elucidate justice. And a fact that means a serious retreat in a fundamental public service -- you're creating first- and second-graded students -- you're literally suppressing school transportation, integrating it into regular lines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u200	It's you who try to remove iron from this issue and at the same time are making alarms jump with supposed security concerns and the risk that schoolchildren are going to run, and they're calling the Civil Guard to control all this. That's why we also tabled an amendment for the withdrawal of this regressive measure from the integration of school transport, and we defended an alternative that was working well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u202	...which is Tes+Bus. So we are going to support the Socialist Group's proposal and we also hope that our amendments will be taken into account. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u204	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all again. We have already denounced a government's disgust that for years has not moved a finger to renew the transport plan, which has not done its work for seven years and has extended an existing plan while it said "lives it wine." An illegal extension, showing — in addition to dissipation and taste for the good wine that has been given — the inability to manage with guarantees. We have also rejected on other occasions the attitude of the Government of the Union in addressing the creation of this new Transport Plan. A government in the bunker who, despite showing his incapacity, doesn't want to listen to anyone and doesn't want to work in a coordinated manner with all the agents involved nor with the various opposition groups. With the start-up of the new lines, as we have already anticipated, there have been more chaos, and I refer to some of the headlines that came out these days: "users' complaints for the Salvaterra-Vigo transport", "confusion among users at the start of the transport plan", "the Board adjusts schedules after the complaints of the neighbours", "complains by the Board's Transport Plan", "the Transport Plan starts with incidences by schedules and stops", "Allariz adds to the drop of complaints by the new routes of the Transport Plan"; and the only one I found in German: "the new Transport Plan begins with a chaotic day". Newspapers collect complaints in the Navy, Place, Road, Railroad, Cedera, Taboada, Monforte, Sanxenxo, Marín, Bueu, Allariz, Poor Trives, Salvaterra, O Porriño, Ponteareas, Salceda, Mondariz, Mondariz-Balneario, Covelo, The Neves, Melón, Ribadavia or Chantada. These are just the localities that are reflected in the media. The implementation of the chapuza organized by the Infrastructure Advisor brought new lines with zero travellers; neighbours going to the city halls to complain; frequency reductions up to 50% on some lines; people hung on the phone looking for information from stops and stations, taking taxis or asking drivers, which in many cases did not have any idea of the new schedules either. In the case of shared transport, companies did not know, three days before the start of the course, what the route they had to do, and so they can hardly inform users. Users say they have no information and the service in many places has been significantly diminished. The municipalities say that they have not been taken into account in order to implement this intent and that they receive constant complaints from the neighbours. The representatives of the workers report problems with subrogations, uncertainty, and warn also, in the presence of complaints from some municipalities with the new lines, that the problem is generalized but that the mayors of the PP are silent. Bus companies say they are doomed to choose between being unemployed or opting for ruinous concessions, causing instability in the sector; an economic failure which makes it difficult to comply with the agreements negotiated with the unions. They also say there have been countless incidents with the start of the new concessions due to the improvisation of the Government of Galician Union. Of the four German federations of bus companies: Fegabus, Anetra, Transgacar and Fegativi, only the latter showed their support for the board plan. The Federation chaired by Javier de Bidegain, former Deputy Director General of Territory Planning, to which the Galician Union intended to enhance as an interlocutor for entrepreneurs. And the board stood alone saying that the plan started normally. He also told the Government that direct adjudications make them extraordinary in order not to be without transport. That before approving this plan it seemed that Galicia had transport, admitting improvisation and mismanagement, because, of course, without mismanagement it would not have to endanger the transport in Galicia. The conflict we are dealing with is the result of improvisation and mismanagement and the immobility of the mobility manager during negotiations. The Government could find agreed solutions, it could dialogue and seek consensus, and instead, the adviser opted for the authoritarianism of the People's Party's own and for imposing a transport plan that absolutely does not convince anyone. You do self-criticism, and you don't repeat the 2019 strategy, when it culminates in the reorganization of Galicia's public transport system. They turn on the road, set up a dialogue table with all the actors involved, promote a committee in Parliament and provide the necessary budgetary resources plan so as not to condemn the sector to precariousness. And by the way, they're thinking about clearing responsibility. For our part, they will count on our collaboration to launch the best public transport service for citizenship. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u206	Thank you very much and good afternoon again. Well, the truth is, after you listen to them, I think they're still in the prejudices they had in July. It doesn't seem like we've been five weeks seeing this first phase of the transport plan work. Let me start with the same words that I finished when the Infrastructure and Living Counsellor came in last July, which is no other way than to congratulate the advisor and his team for the work they are doing and for the result on such a complicated subject. Because, unlike the black premonitions that the opposition groups have made — and they are still doing, from what I see — we have been implementing this first phase of the Transport Plan with total normality, Mr. Cal, and since yesterday -- what happens is that they got it wrong, they had problems yesterday -- also school transport with total normality. Things... we'd almost say less than other years. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that they're more than 500 lines of transport, more than 500 lines of total normality since yesterday. I would also like to take advantage of and thank the work of those thousands of workers who are making it possible, with constant dialogue and collaboration from their representatives and from the unions with the Union, which I also think is something to rejoice at, I understand that it is great news, because in addition to this modernization of transport, I think it is a key element for equality, integration and rural development. The only thing we think we should be doing is trying to keep working, keep improving these lines, and disseminate and disseminate these new services so they can be used by more people, especially in rural areas. And with the experience of these months and the next two years, make the best possible plan in 2019. In the audience, Counselor, I also told them that there were some topics where I thought we should have a higher vision, a country view. And from what I see, they're still anchored in a partisan and destructive opposition and not in that constructive opposition that they demand. They're still doing a partial reading, a blind, subjective reading, which I think is little adjusted to reality and which helps little to improve this plan. The GNP — although it does not seem, because here we have talked about everything — is about participation in this process. The plan is already, gentlemen of the PSOE, a shared, dialogueal and transparent plan. Remember, he consulted widely with the municipalities. There were 14 comarcial meetings; 279 were sent to the councils, of which answered 169 with suggestions; the subject was discussed at all the follow-up Commission meetings; and he was subject to broad public information in which the companies participated mainly because, as it was said, the interests of the companies were being opposed to Galicia's general interest. In addition, the plan with the Fegamp, the ANPA, the transport associations and the trade unions, which, by the way, a referential agreement on labour was concluded. A follow-up commission has been set up with the majority unions — UGT and the Workers' Committees — which has already held three follow-up meetings. And Junta's still improving and adjusting this plan. It's a living plan that needs to be done, improved, implemented and made known. And let's keep building with everyone who wants to help. But you continue to use the same arguments and even — Mr Bará — talking about irregularities. We have just received a second resolution from the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources which, for the second time, gives the basis to the Council of Galicia in this process. Once this legal correction of the plan has been confirmed, the agents involved are required to continue working. I think opposition groups should help improve this plan, so we can't support this non-law proposal. It is being participated widely. On the subject of budgets, the Council's commitments are clear, and the next year's budget will significantly increase mobility shares, as are the commitments made in those contracts. And in addition to the plan we understand it's a technical plan that has already come here and will continue to come as often as you want, but its processing through the House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u208	...—now finished, President—the only thing you can do is an excessive delay. Finally, as far as the amendment of the BNG is concerned, I have the absolute assurance that the Board will provide all the information it requests in relation to these new contract records to be made available. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor by the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u210	Mr Bará, the external report to analyze the deployment gives me the feeling that you're late. It gives me the feeling that you can already be hurt, and I'm going to tell you the result: extraordinary implantation. Time out. Staff failure in delegations? Obviously, eight years dismantling and disincentivizing provincial services, is the right result. As for some incidence, look at you, I didn't have to travel far. I was telling Mrs. Presas right now. I ran from my Town Hall, Castrelo do Val, between Verín and Campobecerros, 21 kilometers. From 400 meters of altitude to 1,200 meters of altitude, 10 stops, by roads of Junta and by local roads. Prayer travel time, 15 minutes. I didn't know you were building the AVE from Verín to Campobecerros, which was already done with that forecast. [[Laughter]] Because 25 kilometers by local roads, with 10 stops, assume they do them in 15 minutes, you'll tell me! [[Applause]] Mr. Fernández Prado, participation? Yes, after receiving the board plan. Right now there's an extraordinary participation with allegations and showing the incidences of each site. Like he did, for example, my mayor, that he didn't match anything at all. Budgets increased this year? Obviously. What about next year? Obviously. In the 2017 budgets there is zero euro for urban transport. Look how simple it is, how will it not increase? Zero this year, and they're going to increase by one percentage to infinite, even though they only put one. Look, to do some history, Mr. Feijóo's governments have been eight years old since 2009 to avoid this past conflict. They couldn't. Ten years have passed since the European Regulation was known, eight years since its entry into force in 2009, seven years since the illegal resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility in 2010. In all these years nothing was done for transport, they were absolutely lost years. What could have been an opportunity, was absolutely overthrown by Mr. Feijóo's governments. He didn't make any progress in modeling, designing, or seeking complicities, and at the end of a year — as we warned opposition groups — to races, unbridled, with prejudices you've already started more likely to shock than to reach your shoulder. Well, that's it! A plan came out without technical rigor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u212	...without economic rigor and without legal rigor. It's just a plan of dispatch totally alien to the territory, as I tell you. I'll be done. Yesterday it worked without any incidence — I told it in my intervention — because those who were excluded from participation previously spent three days intensely, for many hours and with several people, to adjust schedules, adjust routes, set stops and forward them to the Counsellor for her to draw the plan that she had planned her personal assistance and voted for this, which was much more valid. Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u214	...the initiative we have submitted to this House would like to highlight the procedures and shortcomings of drafting the first phase to make a proposal for participation, dialogue, resource assessment and processing in this House as appropriate as its strategic plan. We're going to accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block because we believe it makes a greater contribution to our initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the implementation by the Government of Galicia of the mechanisms necessary to re-define in a consensus with the educational community to the current network of centres, in order to effectively guarantee equal opportunities for the entire population of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u216	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego was tabled on the initiative of Mrs. Olalla Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u217	Mr Manuel Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think I bring here an initiative aimed at the most shocking failure, and yet, as the House Rules allow me this time, I'm going to use it to do surely a useless but necessary dialectic exercise. They will allow me, first of all, to tell Mr. Fernández Prado that it has to be a well-compromising situation. One of two, or going out here missing the truth or having an absolute lack of knowledge of the administration to which you stand for. Because, as my partner, Raúl Fernández, has just pointed out, the school transport has worked because in the last three days it has been called off from the territorial bosses to get the companies to fix the outcome that was going to be imminent on yesterday. [[Applause]] That's the reality, and if you don't know her, we're going! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, by focusing on the object of this non-law proposition, as you know perfectly, we started from a situation in which the enactment in 1990 of the Organic Law on the General Management of the Education System underwent a major change in the structure of teaching, both of primary education and of undergraduate education and vocational training until that moment. We started, as we know, a structure designed by the General Education Law. This general education law — and you will allow me this historic brushstroke — was the first that was enacted and ordered the educational system since the famous Moyano Act of 1857. I mean, it took one hundred and thirty years as a state to make an educational law to adapt all the gratuitous and compulsory teaching to the age of 14. So we had EXB, we had unified and multi-purpose bachelor's degree and first grade vocational training, and it was necessary to adapt it to another reality of primary education, compulsory secondary education, bachelor's degree cycles and higher grade cycles, etc. In our autonomous community — as we know and also know the People's Group — a new type of centres was created that it is true that it did not speak at that time with the unanimous applause of the Ministry of Education, which are the integrated public centres; the organisational mode that also seems to be called to progressive extinction in some way, as we have seen, depending on the path started at the end of the past course. At that time — I was talking about the 1990s — the Government of the Autonomous Community made a courageous decision, made a necessary decision, which was to draw up an extensive and detailed document that was given to calling the Network of Centres, in which it was established that centres would exist in the autonomous community, which were of new construction, that teachings would exist in each of them and how the student would be educated among them. In addition, the professor catalogues of each of these centres were regulated and carried out what has been called adscription processes. In other words, teachers moved, when necessary, from primary education to a secondary education institute — or not — depending on the needs and according to a clear, transparent, regulated and public process, the difference of all that is being done lately, in which none of these adjectives applies to the model that follows. And it's not applicable because, if there was something that characterized the entire process of developing the Network of Centres and its application, it was dialogue. And above all with two fundamentals: the local administrations — i.e. the municipalities concerned — and the professor. Since that moment, since those years, a lot of changes have taken place. The first and most important one, a serious demographic crisis, which is often mentioned in this Parliament because it is a reality that affects us and that there is a difference of approximately 6,500 students between 1998 and 2016, in twelve years, and these are many students of difference. This leads to serious situations that have already been made manifest in this same plenary session, in the motion of the En Marea Parliamentary Group that we discussed earlier, which results in a reduction in the educational supply which deepens in the differences between the municipalities and deepens further in the dismantling of public services. And we also have another reality — whether we like it or not — that was also explicitly recognized — I think it was erroneously — by the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order himself in the last plenary session, when asked about the whole question of unit reduction and closure... — no, I'm sorry, it wasn't closure, it was the extinction of educational institutions, saying that these students would be favored because they were going to centres where there are more students and therefore they had the option to have more choice. So the opposite sense, where there aren't enough students, students have fewer choices, and that's a matter of country, it's a matter of politics with capitals, it's a matter of political commitment that we have to assume. And as Parliament of this Autonomous Community, we must urge the Government to carry out. It is no less true, too, that in the case of vocational training, than we will surely have occasion to speak throughout this period, since the registration figures and the vacancy figures — which have been the remaining among the total number of places offered, between them and others — will give rise to what we see as the network of vocational training teachings is not suitable for our productive reality. And why? Because we have an offer of vocational training that is derived in many cases — more than they would be acceptable — from the old first and second degree vocational training network. So we transform teachings, but we don't fit the professions in which students can be trained to the productive reality of the centers. And so we're, at best, training students who aren't going to be placed in their surroundings. I say at best, because in other cases there's no such option anymore. And finally — as I told you earlier — it has happened in recent months, in recent years, but with greater intensity at the end of the past course, an authentic seizure within the education system, surely from the point of view of the disproportionate People's Party, in which opposition parties — unheard of in democratic systems — seek social conflict to defend their policies. I mean, create the conflict. It's not that they study conflict and propose alternatives, that they create conflict, that's what we've been told here that we do opposition groups. And as a result of all these realities, we are modifying the network of centers on time, course on time, apparently without any planning criteria but the mere opportunity as a result of the reduction of students. And if by step this reduction is carried out — with any exception — in municipalities where the People's Party does not hold the Government, it is particularly easier to do so. I mean, it wasn't the only case, I don't have so little memory either. We therefore understand as a parliamentary group that has already arrived at the moment of making a serious, objective and counting — as it was in 1996 — with the necessary consensus. And it turned out that in 1996 the People's Party was also ruling in this autonomous community. I mean, I'm acknowledging that, if they want, they can do things right; if they don't, of course not. If they believe that everything they do is right and that they do not need the cooperation of any kind of agent to carry out their policies, we will all be concerned that, as long as the Roll of the People's Party has enough in this Parliament, the others will be merely as decorative elements and with little capacity — at least in the educational field — to carry out any proposal that deserves their approval. And so what we are asking is that this Parliament approve of urging the Government of Greece to immediately put into operation the mechanisms necessary to re-definite the current network of centres with the education community in a consensual manner, so that it effectively guarantees equal opportunities for the entire population of our autonomous community, including all the criteria and extremes necessary to achieve that equality. And when we talk about equality, I refer again to certain settings in which the number of students does not allow them to be offered subjects that, while they may still appear to be optional, are of vital importance for the further training of those same students. And with regard to the amendment to replace the Galego Nationalist Block, let me tell you that, man, you might have been a little more humble and put amendment of addition, because actually what you're doing is adding a paragraph to ours, not replacing it. And, therefore, if we deal and put as you add your first sentence and as point 2 of this amendment, we're not going to have any trouble accepting it. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u220	Well, thank you, President. It was thought so, in those terms of substantial modification of what you presented as an addition to what you formulated. What happens is that I put it as a modification amendment, and here the one that changes replaces the original one. But let me explain why we included this, which is precisely one of the issues that the spokesman of the Socialist Party was talking about. And it's just that we're ahead — we're also living it on the eve of the end of the academic course 2016-2017 — that unilaterally, and also — as we've already reported in this House — without any kind of dialogue, even hiding information from this Parliament, the professor, the ANPA and other agents of the educational community, schools have been closed every day. We were trying, in the case of going ahead with this initiative presented by the Socialist Party today, to incorporate this addition so that from now on any intention that the Galician Board might have not only to close public education centres — as the Socialist Party spokesperson said — but also to incorporate, in this neo-lingual order in which it spoke to us, the Galician Board of Education, possible extinctions or reorganizations of centres that were not consensual or dialogued with the whole educational community. On that line was our amendment to add, with a further question: that those criteria that seek or seek equity and equality focus, above all, on guaranteeing it in rural areas. We had mentioned precisely that we need specific plans, policies, to meet the reality of our country's rural areas. We agree in the BNG with the proposal made by the Socialist Party. In addition, we understand it not only about the map of centers, that is, whether to create or close centers, but it is necessary to open up the melon of issues that reach not only rural space but also the most populated spaces in our country and cities, for example, the zoning. We have maps of centers that were developed at times when the demographic reality of cities was at that time. But now — luckily or unfortunately — cities have changed a lot, and many times the maps of centers and the distribution of students within cities themselves — this happens a lot in Lugo — have not adjusted to these demographic changes. That dialogue space to redefine that map can be used to open that debate. We also understand that it can serve to open another — interesting from our point of view — that it is to cease, for example, to put a stop to the financing of private-concerted centres that are increasing units with the money of all, existing public centers in the same city — is thinking of the Children's House, here in Santiago de Compostela. We can open this debate: do we need to expand the number of units in private-concerted with registration and sufficient space to accommodate more children in public education? — one of the issues mentioned in the previous initiative, on a proposal from En Marea. This is the criterion of six children. Perhaps we can open the debate on whether or not this criterion is maintained, whether it needs to be modified because of the demographic reality we have in our country, and whether we consider reducing that ratio can be a measure to ensure that the medium and long term is maintained and that new population is established in certain localities or districts. We believe that it can be that space of dialogue that embraces — as this initiative brings together — the whole educational community in a good way, at least, that, in case we all understand that we must recompose that map, that we must redefine it, that we have to adjust it to the reality of the year 2017 and that it is done in a dialogueal manner, that we do not see again what happened on the eves of the completion of the academic course 2016-2017 and how they are closed... because it was so, that Emilio Navasqués closed, didn't open again, did we? You've closed your past course. And that's why -- we insist -- we've already incorporated the New Language of the Union into the extinction or reorganization of centres like the ones we've been living for just a few months. We understand that we need to open this debate. We also agreed on vocational training. There are cases of centres which have been refused or denied cycles of vocational training — higher degrees of forestry, for example, in Four Kings, with those who wanted to close the training circle in agricultural matters and also linked to one of the most productive sectors linked to the municipality itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u222	Yes, I'm done. We also consider it necessary to take a look around and see how through vocational training we can guarantee jobs also for our population, adapting it to the reality and endogenous development of our neighborhoods. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u224	Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, the subject seems very important to us, and thanks to the very precise and tight synthesis of so many years of plans. We're changing and we need new models obviously. We think there are four principles that must be taken into account when analyzing the network of centers. The first, which is an absolute responsibility of the Administration, is to guarantee equity and equal opportunities. That's obvious, clear water. Another thing is that it's actually done. A second principle is to provide necessary human and material resources, taking into account the socio-geographical reality of our community. There is also another very important principle, which is flexibility in adapting education to different situations. And it should also be a principle to achieve the participation of all the agents involved — the educational community, the unions, the associations of mothers and parents, the opposition parties and the teachers — because, if not, any action that is taken will be really unilateral and authoritarian — that is, I believe, as it is being done. Then, to talk about this, we have to talk about the principle of co-education, too. So, in the first term, it must be said that, of course, here we have spoken, from my point of view, with all clarity on the part of my companion Luca Chao: in the regulation there is nothing that prevents a person from being... and we are teamed, we are communicated. And he's made an absolutely shared defense by me and I think it's all over the parliamentary group. So we believe -- we and we believe that the whole community, which for more than ten years, twelve or thirteen years, there have been many movements, a lot of struggle, because there is a clear conscience, and not only in Galicia but in many other parts of the Peninsula -- that rural people are at a disadvantage, that rural people are actually suffering a serious problem of discrimination. So we believe that we need a legislative framework — which is what we are defending — in terms of minimum requirements, organizational structure, operation, something that has to do with our identity. And, of course, if there's anything to defend and protect, it's rural. He said: "Some little people in a small place, with little things, can transform the world." My partner spoke positively that the Lionesian model of Castile-Leon is effective. There are other communities where the ratios are 3-4 students, because they believe in social cohesion. To make you believe, you have to believe. And then here, the game of truth and lies is a very dangerous game. Positive discrimination? Isn't it true that in rural students have less support, less specialists, less opportunities? Isn't it true he's undervalued rural? Isn't it true that there have been 200 locks in these last ten years? Is that true? Is that a lie? Is it self-deception? There he is! Yes, sir. So we reject the half-truths. We also reject — because it is an attack on the principle of equality — segregationist centres. There's something against equal opportunities, there are several things. One question is sex segregation and another question is economic segregation, by economic condition. And it must be borne in mind that there is a very high population, 25.4% of the rate, at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Are these measures to address the problems of children with problems of social exclusion? These are variables that we consider to be priority. So when you talk about dismantling or when you talk about discrimination, it's not something that anybody invents, they're not words today, they're words that have been moving consciences for years because they're realities. So, with regard to something Mr. Álvarez said, which is very important, that is to count that decisions are not unilateral, we believe that there are many things that are being done behind the community. It is unacceptable, for example, that there are two decrees in summer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u225	Finish, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u226	One of them is what leads to the award of concerts until 2022-2023. Because LOMCE only forces it to do it in primary, and you do it against all groups and in the period, so that it will pass unnoticed, in summer. And what's most intolerable is that it's an attack on the principle of equality, co-education is to educate people from equal values and beyond children or children. That is the fundamental principle of equality. So what you're doing is keeping lines contrary to equality, both in rural education and in the treatment of business of absolute economic and economic purpose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u228	...with regard to the agreed education, which we refuse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u230	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Mr. Álvarez, you started your speech by saying that I was going to do a useless dialectic exercise, and the truth is, I want to take that idea away from your head. Because I always say -- I have said it many times up here -- that I suspect everyone we sit in this House, whether it's the party that supports the government or the opposition, at least the same interest I have to work constructively to improve Galician reality. So, so as not to fall into the despondent, I'll remind you of a beautiful article by Florentine López Cuevillas, which is called Seed of the year 1951, in which it said that "do not doubt whether you work in the name of Galicia seeded or only sprawled. Think that any work, whether great or small, whether hard or light, whether done in the name of Galicia is always seed." So don't worry, that all the work you do in this House is also seed. But the same is what we do in this group. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, as I said, it's funny to talk about initiatives and it's good to bring constructive initiatives and proposals with the idea that the Government implements them when it's in the opposition. But it's also curious that when you were in the government and you had responsibilities in the Education Council, no such measures were implemented. That's also something, at least, appealing; above all, for the group that proposed a change in this line. But I think we should also keep in mind what the context is. And in that sense, the context in which we are — which is a context of negotiation of a social and political pact for education in the General Courts at the national level — may not be the most appropriate context for an in-depth reform of the network of centres in Galicia. Because you know that the result of this education pact can bring about changes in educational legislation that already in itself involve a redefinition of the networks of centers. So, in that sense, I think we should all wait for that context to be resolved, wait for that social and political pact to be resolved — and I hope that all forces will be in line with what society demands — to be done. And, in that sense, once this is resolved, we can either take action or think about implementing restructuring measures on the network of centres in Galicia. I think that would be the logical procedure in the situation, at the moment and in the concrete context in which we are found. But also, when you were talking about useless dialectic exercise, I think you were basically acknowledging that, when this initiative was introduced — which was an initiative that responded to a specific situation, to a specific context, with a very specific, very particular problem on the table, which was the reorganization of centers that was done at the end of the course — with the time that was passed from that until today, in the end what you did was somehow place the things where from the People's Group they were said they would be. And it was that this decision was a decision that basically met the pedagogical criteria, the technical criteria; and ultimately, it sought to improve the quality of education in all these locations where reorganization was carried out. I think they should be honest and recognize the work of the Educational Administration, because the work done by the Council was quite visible. And in addition, it happens that the facts referred to this work. We must all agree — and I think that no one will disagree — that the network of centers does not obey a static reality but must be permeable to the dynamism of society itself. So in each course, we need to analyze the new demographic situation and also the reality of the facilities and educational resources to adapt it to the new needs and improve the educational supply in each case. That's what they respond to the reorganizations of centers that the Government of Greece has made and will continue to do, and that they have been so criticized by the opposition. We have always argued that it was necessary to carry the party debate away from the educational system, because we have always had the conviction that education has to be a common workplace and consensus in search of positive results for society. And not a space for fighting that obeys another sort of absolutely pure and far-sighted interests than society demands from its representatives. We must now remember how we intended to politicize in this House and in the streets a decision that was based on criteria and reasons — as I said before — purely pedagogical and improved quality of teaching, to the point of judging these decisions in some cases. But it was now when the Administration of Justice itself, through two cars, ratified the decision made by the German Government and reinforced the arguments that were raised from the Government. I'm just going to point out a number of issues that point to the Supreme Court of Justice's cars in Galicia in reference to the case of the Bridges. It was mentioned that there would be problems with student care with specific educational needs. It says the car: "Recurrents will refocus on an approach that we refuse to share, which is that the psycho-pedagogic care these students have in the ICC will not be dispensed with in the adscription centers, when the data offered by the Administration rejects such sharp. Attention, far from getting worse, will have to improve," said the High Court of Justice in Galicia, "in reinforcement and projects. Far from assuming integration as a prejudgment for students who form through projects, it would imply an opportunity to increase the number of their recipients even if that requires an initial additional effort in which everyone should be involved in their development." On the student ratio, he also says that the ratios themselves are going to be even smaller because they will be forced to unfold units and, therefore, they will be in smaller ratios than they were in the previous center. Finally — and to finish — we have the opportunity to put aside many partisan struggles to work hand in hand for the improvement of the education system. And we have a good context to do this in negotiating that social and political pact for education. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have focused all our efforts on this most important task for the development of our future and we have just ended with the political use of education. Since, although you may think that in the short term these struggles can give political revenues, what we cause is that in the medium and long term society loses confidence in its representatives. And I think — as I said at the beginning of my speech — that none of us here want that. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u231	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Gil, I must admit you've been about to thrill me. However — possibly because of the high temperature that we recorded in this room — my teariness is weakened and you will therefore understand that when you talk about seed I have to answer that it is difficult for you to sow something in the desert to grow anything. And, therefore, seeds in the desert, bad business. [[Applause]] What's happened to you? [[Applause]] Since you brought a date from the 1950s, I was going to bring another much more recent bill -- which surely we all know here -- which would be the one that says, "Well, well, well, bye," and finish. But, well, it's worth using the time even if it's to sow in the desert, because you said really remarkable things. One, first, to link the network of centres to the social and political pact for education. What'll it have to do with something else? Is a structural change in the educational stages expected as a result of this pact that involves a change in the network of centres? No, no, no, no. No, Mr. Fernández Gil. Let's just be a little serious. You're looking for arguments, but this one, frankly, is a little forced. This GNP — although it does not matter to you — has nothing to do with the situation at the end of the course, although we can recognize that this situation has served as a fuel for this initiative. Because we are talking — if the initiative is settled — about a country issue. And a question of country is not a question of political parties, it's a question of country. And you have to differentiate when you politicize and when you don't, that you have made a lot of insistence on this aspect, as if, by the way, politicizing in the Galician Parliament was something contrary to the nature of the institution itself. I don't think we've come here to make politics. We have come to talk about politics, we have come to make political proposals each of the groups that we are in this Parliament. And therefore it is yours, politicize; and, in this case, about the world of education. But, I insist, on a non-partisan perspective but a country perspective, which you seem particularly refractory to. But, well, it's true that you'll know. Now you'll see... well, you don't have a replica shift; if you don't, I'd come with the support of the votes and that people clearly referred to in September 2016 that you shut down in July 2017 several educational centers by the Autonomous Community, which were asked specifically for this. And finally, you told me you had to be honest and recognize the Council's work. I never said the Council was ruled and administered by vacancies or incompetents. What I said in this GNP — and I keep it — is that I am not exactly a beacon of the dialogue that must preside over any kind of country policy, which in this case is educational policy. Thank you very much, for your support and for your refusal, for all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u233	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia for the construction of a day centre in Rianxo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u234	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u235	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to greet the neighbors and neighbors of Rianxo who are with us today on the bench, and also those who are outside this Parliament, who have once again come to protest against the People's Party's decision to leave them without an essential service as the day centre. They're not lucky in Rianxo, unfortunately, with the People's Party Government. In the previous legislation I myself have been attending to families who claimed the coverage of a pediatrician in the village, then it was from the first pediatrician squares that were not covering, after vacations, retirements, etc. And then the Government recognized that they exceeded the ratios recommended by the World Health Organization, but since then it has done absolutely nothing to provide either this or the rest of the pediatric services. The aging of the population, ladies and gentlemen, requires serious and adequate planning of the care resources for older people and also dependent people. And in this respect, public resources for this purpose are especially relevant, which must respond to what is a social right. It seems contradictory to talk about demography and aging and then not want to provide the population and villages with resources to care for older and dependent people. Among the various figures and tools of care, we take special importance to day centers, such as the element that, avoiding institutionalization — that is, people have to enter or move on to live in a permanent residence — can allow for the reconciliation of family life. Today's centers are therefore the proximity to socio-sanitary care. There doesn't seem to be much interest in the subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In this sense, proximity to family homes is key, it is of utmost importance, to ensure that true possibility of reconciliation between families and the care of those older and dependent people, to avoid, in this way, long transports and to facilitate access to the elderly or dependent people in our villages to those resources of care. And this fact, therefore, makes it difficult to understand that it is denied the possibility that in the village of Rianxo is told with a day centre of its own, as is the case with the rest of the surrounding municipalities. Rianxo has 12,000 inhabitants, of whom 2,800 are over 65 years old, and without counting on this data the dependents of the village. It is understandable the need for comarcal planning, because, in addition, it is the usual response given by the Government. But that cannot be impossible for the towns with these characteristics to count on a resource of their own, precisely for which we have just moved from the necessity that this is a resource of proximity. The neighborhood also reports that there are 19 users and users displaced from Rianxo to other day centers in the surrounding area, and 44 only on the waiting list for other centers. And yet this day centre — which should be a basic resource — is denied by the Galician Union. It's not a center that replaces a socio-Community center — therefore it wouldn't — and it's not a center that can be understood to be far away, because it would lose its attention as a means of proximity. We all understand here — and also the neighbors and neighbors of Rianxo — that what we are asking for is not a specialized center, it is not a larger residence — that, of course, needs a wider planning of users; it is a day center, a proximity center to allow the reconciliation of family life. And a center that, in addition, the People's Party defended a decade ago and said it was going to bring to the village of Rianxo. All candidates — even in 2015 — promised — including the People's Party — that we would already have this day centre in Rianxo. The candidate for the People's Party said in the campaign that it was a fundamental service for the municipality and that the neighbors would not tolerate more lies about the construction of the health centre. So this candidate — now concelegratian — moved to the then Counsellor, Beatriz Mato, this necessity, who said, in turn, that the public squares for the older people were a priority for the People's Party. But we have nothing of that today, that the People's Party will once again rule, as happens in each legislation. Faced with this circumstance, in 2016 the neighbours and neighbors, tired of transferring proposals, planned to collect signatures, which they delivered on record this year. Despite that, the Government continued to ignore these claims and therefore also launched mobilizations this spring. In May I myself was in the first manifestation, in the first concentration, that the neighborhood did in front of the square of the Town Hall. Not only were we there then, already last year, because — as I have already moved — the claim comes from old age. In June In Marea he transferred to the 5th Commission on Health and Social Policy, this claim and the People's Party voted against, transferring that there were sufficient centers in the surrounding area and remaining squares. The answer — as we have just explained — is not compatible with the data provided by people waiting. And all the people we visited were able to see how several witnesses were waiting for many families to be able to have their families at the center of the day in their own village. On July 21st I was in that closure that neighbors and neighbors had started in the Town Hall just a few weeks earlier. Afterwards to that circumstance, and as people were obviously going through the closure, the Galician Council decided to receive them, but not the councillor, and not the Social Policy Council, but a provincial delegation, in which they were told that there was no possibility of doing the center and that they were the ones who had sought the number of people needed to build the centre. A shame that turns out to be incomprehensible as a response from a government — in this case of the Galician Union — to a claim from the neighbouring country. It's not the neighbours and neighbours who have to look for the users and users of the center, it's the Galician Union that has to guarantee the rights of citizenship; and, of course, having a day centre in the village for the attention of the elderly and dependent people is a right of the neighbourhood. So at that time -- and all these weeks -- I've heard and we were able to attend to many witnesses of the neighborhood, those older ones, who were moving us that they had to raise these people at six in the morning because they had an hour and a half path -- in the case of those who were in another town's day center -- in order to be able to move to that center of the day; or that they had to leave them alone during the mouse that they were going to work because they couldn't attend to them at that time; or we also received the testimony of a neighbor who moved us that, despite being sick with cancer, had to be at their home their father, their mother and their sick husband. Those are just a few examples. If the honourable Members of the People's Party — as well as the rest of the Members and Members of Parliament and members of the opposition — moved to speak to the neighbours and neighbours, they could hear what we mean — at least from En Marea — it is shameful at this height of the twenty-first century. Last week these neighbours and these neighbours once again expressed themselves at the doors of Parliament. Our parliamentary group considered it essential to bring this neighboring demand again today, just as we committed ourselves, by the way, in the month of July when the closure began in the Town Hall. We want the Galician Union to receive and listen to the neighbors and neighbors of Rianxo, but not in a provincial delegation in which they only accept the visit of two people and are given an answer as embarrassing as that of the neighbors looking for potential users. And, of course, we ask that for 2018 — now that in just a few months, in addition to the budgets for debate in this House — the construction of the day centre for Rianxo, suitable for population needs, and the project can be bided before the end of this year. Since what they're asking for is not a great work, it's not a large residence of older people, it's a day center for a few dozen users and users to allow the older people and the dependents of the town of Rianxo don't have to wait without this allowance in their home or have to travel to other towns in the area. We think it's right. And it seems absolutely incredible to us that today people, even 80 years of age, have to be locked up in a council to meet their claim of being entitled to something they have worked for all their lives, which are services to meet their needs. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u237	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. Not many years ago, when we were talking about residences and day centers, there was a general rejection, because the model that we all referred to were the so-called old asylums, places of beneficence where the serveable was parked. An old man in the past worked till death and, in many cases, he went out asking for the doors when there were no way to keep it at home. Today the concept and social considerations have changed. Life has gone on, the demands on the quality of this life have increased enormously, and all — or almost all — see it as reasonable. What we don't see reasonable is that, by the law of the market, where there is demand, there is no supply; that is, service. A few days ago we were there, in a hall in the Rianxo Town Hall, where a good number of older people — by the way, almost all women — with their own energy of youth and strong conviction, have been locked up for almost two months claiming the right to a dignified old age. One leaves there convinced that they have all the reason for the world and all the right to demand what they demand. Rianxo, as already mentioned, is around 3,000 neighbors over 65 years of age and anyone can see in that figure the logic of the claim. Because a daytime center is a place where decent, quality life is extended, where a aspect of family reconciliation becomes real, where older people are cared for with special needs, without leaving contact with family and the environment close to life. We are all aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the world is walking that way. It's those things you don't notice until your parents are older. Whoever first suffers the consequences is the woman of the house, for whom in a gradual time rest, day and night is over. I'm not going to sink into this because I think we all understand each other, and besides those who don't understand it will end up understanding it, if you're lucky. Often the suffering doubles, destroys the harmony... finally, what to do with it? That's why we're going to support this initiative by adding ourselves to the demands of this old age of Rianxo, which has the necessary impulse and strength to claim what they are entitled to. I hope that the PP will take advantage of the occasion and explain to us here today why it places day centers, made with money from all of them, without responding to the real demand and where there is a mayor of its future electoral string or interests. Because reality is like this. A council of more than 9,000 inhabitants had a day center with vacant squares, but the mayor wasn't from the PP. There was a time when it wasn't, and there were no faces to change. The municipality borderline if it had about 3,000 inhabitants with a mayor of the PP, and received a day center as a prize. This is planning, yes, gentlemen. In Rianxo we are told by the BNG that municipal land is available, as well as the possibility of rehabilitation and adaptation of some public building. In Rianxo, as I have said before, there is demand, there are people in need of that service; what they lack are desire, willingness to serve people and solve problems, without-by-by-the-do. What are they waiting for? Go ahead!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u238	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u239	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon to the neighbors of Rianxo. First of all, I want to show our solidarity with them, because they've almost been closed in the Town Hall for two months, waiting for the construction of this day center they ask for. From our group, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we are going to support this initiative, and it cannot be otherwise, because since the Socialists were ruling in Rianxo and in the region there was still no day centre in the Council — a socialist government, as I said — at that time made available to the Union a land for the construction of a day center. Today it has not been built, today they continue to wait for that day centre and today they have to come here, to the Galician Parliament, to do their demand because they are not heard. And the fact is that, as they said here, there are about 12,000 inhabitants and about 3,000 people over 65, which represents 25% of the population. That day center is needed, it's necessary. One of the arguments that this government says, that it picks up when it opposes the construction of that day center, is the alternative to home help hours. We understand that home help hours are important — no doubt important — but day centres have another role, because apart from allowing older adults to stay in their midst, they allow preventive rehabilitation. Allow them, in addition, to achieve personal autonomy and to improve their physical and mental abilities. But there's another, and very important factor, which is the social factor. Day centers allow them to socialize, and this improves their self-esteem at this stage of their life in which it is so important to feel happy and to have high self-esteem. In addition, we would like to talk about the people who need these care, talk about the figure of the caregivers, and we have to say especially about the caregivers, because when you create these day centers, the residences that are the biggest in general, when you create places where older people can spend their days sharing spaces and experiences with people in a similar situation, what you are doing is transversal policies, because you are soon serving equality policies if you don't then consider options that allow women... and, yes, I tell women because, unfortunately, we are almost always the women who stay at home and we can't develop a professional activity in caring for older people, beyond, even above, the obstacles that we find in the labour market. So this is about family reconciliation, about opportunities — because there are no opportunities — for attention to the dependence of our elders. So older people tend, yes, but also caregivers, and especially caregivers, because it creates greater class inequality and greater gender inequality. So, as we said, we also talk about caregivers. From the Socialist Group we believe, moreover, that the people of Rianxo were not well treated, and we say it and we ask the following: how long have the neighbors and the neighbors of Rianxo, the elders and the elders of Rianxo been closed when they were heard? Well, it took them a month when they had to go to the Coruña to listen to them. It's a government that's late, that's bad and that gets the trail, not showing any respect for people. Majors must be a priority for this government because Galicia suffers from a population regression and, as you know, also an ageing population. We don't say. Look, according to the World Health Organization, in the year 2050, the population over 60 will triple the young population. Galicia is currently the second autonomous population with the oldest population. For every 100 girls there are 197 more than 60, almost twice as much. In Spain for every 100 people, 116 are older. That's the situation in Galicia, so we're, increasingly distant, fortunately more conscious, and today's age of 78 is roughly equivalent to 68 in the 1950s. It is simply a matter of taking action, but we have to take action already because the situation here a few years ago is going to be unsustainable precisely for that, because we are less and less, we are bigger and more aware, etc. And, to finish, from the Socialist Group, we ask for what we always ask: that when these issues are dealt with with with with sensibly and treated with empathy, putting themselves in the place of the older people, so that there are no situations and answers from the Galician Union, as when a day centre is also demanded in Corcubion, and they answer by saying that they have no place in the Bergantinos Cabana, 50 kilometers away. As we look like a coat of hair, so we ask for a little sensitivity, which they think when they give those answers, they're responding to older people, dependent people, people who are probably waiting for an answer with the illusion that one day they're responding positively. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all Members. I think they will agree with me on one point: that for the construction of new social infrastructures in Galicia — for example, a day centre or a residence — it is necessary to do a prior study of existing equipment in that region, in that province, and also of the real needs that are detected at that time. We thought we'd agree on that. If we're talking about an infrastructure map, we think you should respond to a planning, because at the moment it's not possible to build a day center or a residence in the 313 municipalities in Galicia; it's not possible. If we talk specifically about the region of Barbanza and we talk about the study of those infrastructures that exist in this region, we have to emphasize that there are two day centers: one in the Town Hall of Poor and the other in the Town Hall of Boiro; with 40 squares in each of these day centers. And there's also a day center in the area of influence, specifically in Dodro Town Hall, which has 45 squares. We're talking in total of 125 squares, of which 90 are occupied right now. There are therefore 35 places available for the people who need them. I would like to point out that the last day centre inaugurated, specifically in the Town Hall of Poorness, in December 2016, had an investment by the Galician Union of more than EUR 900,000. It has a total of 40 squares, and they are currently occupied 12; so they would be available for people who needed 28 squares. In addition, we can make it clear that in cases where the elderly do not have a day centre in their municipality — as is the case with Rianxo — it is necessary to take into account the possibility of accessing transport to get to the nearest centre. In addition to day centers, it's important to talk about a service — because it's about proximity services — and a service closer to the person is also the home aid service, more than one day center. Well, Junta has just strengthened the home aid service with an increase of 2.6 million euros in budget so that we can expand the hours and users. And in Rianxo at the end of July, the councillor, at a meeting with the mayor of Rianxo, undertook to increase the home-help service to the neighbors of Rianxo in 1,300 hours. We're talking about this 1,300-hour increase of 100 percent of Rianxo's neighbors who need the home help service will be able to access it. So this is a proximity service, not just a day center or a residence. In relation to dialogue, we are sure that the Government continues to bet on that dialogue and collaboration with the municipalities. By recalling, on 26 February 2016, the Consorcio manager was gathered with the Mayor of Rianxo, and on 27 January 2017 the Consorcio manager with the Mayor of Rianxo and with the spokespersons of the municipal groups, on 27 July 2017 the councillor with the Mayor of Rianxo met with representatives of the Neighborhood Platform, the delegate and the Consorcio manager. We therefore consider that at these meetings the Council has exposed the different resources of the area and why at the moment the municipality of Rianxo does not have a day centre. Here we came to hear that for the group presenting this initiative, the En Marea group, it is essential to open already and build a day center in Rianxo, but this is the first time we have heard it, or at least read it, because we have had a debate of budgets where each parliamentary group has been able to shape its priorities into day centers and residences in its amendments. And the priorities of En Marea in day centers were: one in Vilalba, another in the Bridges, another in Xinzo, another in Teo, another in Lugo and another in Savinyo. Rianxo's day center did not appear in the amendments of En Marea's group. But I would like to remember that right now, thanks to the effort of the Galician Union, the Greeks have 2,777 more squares in day centers, in senior residences and in Alzheimer's centers. And that can only be achieved with a government committed to people and a government committed to our elders. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u243	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support, which I find to be with the neighbors and the neighbors of Rianxo. And also bring the People's Party to surprise. It seems now it's up to In Marea to plan day centers, when you've been promising ten years at the Rianxo Day Center. [[Applause]] I ask you a question, I return it, you can't answer it because we can't ask questions, but I know you're going to reflect at night: how many amendments from the opposition did the People's Party accept in the 2017 budget debate? How many not 2016? How many not 2015? And so we could go back. And I'm telling him because his parliamentary majority doesn't even have to debate the amendments we tabled in the budget debate every year. So it's a shame that you, after promising in Rianxo for ten years a day center, come here to blame you for opposing your inoperability. Of course, we have to do a previous study! Of course, we have to plan, the problem is that you don't. They build day centers that they don't open, and elsewhere where you need them, they're not able to give the neighbors and the neighbors the service they have right to. You move that it is not possible to build a day center, a residence in every village. However, for example, in Ferrolterra, they have no problem having the biggest residence made a disaster, with two closed plants -- they're almost on their way for three years -- and yet they've just given a license to a private residence. For that there is no problem, for that there are the squares, to give them to the private; there is no problem. However, in order to be able to make a day center for the neighbors and neighbors who need it, there's trouble. To open the closed plants of public residences there are difficulties and there is a problem. Tell me, how many of those squares you count are in public centers? Tell me if you think a three-hour shift in a transport for a senior or dependent person is acceptable, because some people have to get up first to leave them in advance. You'll know that some people come in at 8:00 in the morning to work in their work center and, perhaps, the schedule that you think well is not compatible with these people and their families. The request for a day center is not a whim — I've moved it — and they're not asking for an adult residence either. People, neighbors and neighbors and also opposition groups are not as great as to think we're going to order a building with 1,000 or 2,000 squares. What we're asking for is a center around a thirty or the squares that are calculated according to the waiting list — which, I say, there are 44 people counted on the waiting list, plus others displaced — that allow people not to have to move from the city hall and can be looked after in a nearby home. A daytime center must be a proximity resource. And, of course, what you can't look at is the opposition and the planning to assume that after ten years of promising the Rianxo Day Center you're going to tell the people who are there and those who are at the door who are not going to do it because you don't want to build a day center in a council where the People's Party doesn't rule. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-12-DSPG038.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Exhausted from the agenda, we suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night, everyone.
